PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 18 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 29 MAY 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments.
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : THE PRESIDENCY: Kindly note that the position of Deputy Director: Administration with
Post No: 17/128, Ref no: ADMIN/PRES/2026 as advertised in the Public Service
Vacancy Circular 17 dated 22 May 2026 with closing date of 5 June 2026 indicated this
under the competencies: Hands-on executive secretarial experience in offering services
to the President. The Presidency would like to remove this sentence on the advert.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 03 - 05
BASIC EDUCATION B 06 - 17
COMMUNICATION AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES C 18 - 20
ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY D 21 - 22
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR E 23 - 39
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND ENVIRONMENTAL F 40 - 41
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE G 42 - 45
HEALTH H 46 - 47
HOME AFFAIRS I 48 - 55
HUMAN SETTLEMENT J 56 - 57
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE K 58 - 59
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT L 60 - 70
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE M 71 - 73
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE N 74 - 78
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT O 79 - 80
TOURISM P 81 - 87
TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION Q 88 - 90
TREASURY R 91 - 94
WOMAN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITY S 95 - 97
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
EASTERN CAPE T 98 - 116
FREE STATE U 117 - 118
GAUTENG V 119 - 120
KWAZULU-NATAL W 121 - 132
LIMPOPO X 133 - 138
MPUMALANGA Y 139 - 186
NORTHERN CAPE Z 187 - 191
WESTERN CAPE AA 192 - 225
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. NB:
Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will
be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications.
Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/01 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN PRODCUTION GRADE A (REF
NO: 3/3/1/37/2026)
Directorate: Genetic Resources
SALARY : R407 337 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria: (Roodeplaat: Genebank)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate and BSc or National
Diploma with Botany, Agronomy, Horticulture, Agriculture as a major subject or
relevant qualification. Compulsory registration with South African Council for
Natural Scientific Professions (SACNASP) as a Certified Natural Scientist. Job
Related Work Experience: Minimum of 3 years post qualification in the field of
botany, horticulture, agronomy, agriculture or conservation of plant genetic
resources. Job Related Knowledge: Conservation and sustainable use
3
principles. Plant methodology, Plant collection strategies. Seed storage. Seed
processing. Data management. Job Related Skills: Planning. Problem Solving.
Research. Computer literacy. Communication skills. Driver’s license.
Organising skills. National and regional travelling.
DUTIES : Perform procedures and functions relevant to ex situ conservation activities
relevant to conservation and sustainable use of plant genetic resources for
food and agriculture. Process collected and harvested material, including
accessions in active collection (cleaning, fumigation, counting, packaging,
labelling and storage). Maintain material planted in shade house/field trials
(includes application of fertilizer and pesticides, weeding, irrigation, where
applicable etc.) Assist with characterization activities pertaining to gene bank
accessions. Perform procedures and functions relevant to in-situ/on-farm
conservation and sustainable use of plant genetic resources for food and
agriculture. Assist with establishment and monitoring of in situ/on-farm
conservation projects and community seed banks. Process and register
harvested materials collected from on-farm conservation projects. Assist in
identification and preparation of gene bank material for repatriation. Assist with
activities pertaining to plant collection missions. Perform technical scientific
analysis and regulatory functions relevant to conservation and sustainable use
of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture. Plant and monitor gene
bank accessions identified for multiplication and characterisation. Conduct
germination testing of identified/selected accessions. Package and label
accessions with acceptable germination percentages. Conduct moisture
content analysis. Assist with preparation of material identified for safe
duplication at the SADC Plant Genetic Resources Centre (SPGRC). Assist in
preparation of material requested under the Material Transfer Agreement.
Assess the needs and status of Gene bank facilities and equipment. Conduct
Research and Development to conservation and sustainable use of plant
genetic resources for food and agriculture. Collect and record data on
accessions planted, using recognised descriptors. Contribute to development
of research outputs on conservation and sustainable use of plant genetic
resources for food and agriculture. Assist on collecting and analysing
information/data on sustainable use of plant genetic resources for food and
agriculture. Provision of inputs/information for reports required by relevant
national/regional/international bodies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ML Mokoena Tel: (060) 972 9702
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
STPrecruit37@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: Coloured and White Males and Persons with disability.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 at 16:00
POST 18/02 : AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT TECHNICIAN: (REF NO: 3/3/1/38/2026)
Directorate: Animal Production
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of BSc Agric in Animal Production/Animal
Science or BTech in Animal Science or Advanced Diploma in Animal Science.
Registration with SACNASP. Job Related Work Experience 2 years relevant
experience. Knowledge of the Animal Improvement Act,1998 (Act 62 of 1998)
and related Acts and regulations. Job Related Knowledge: Animal production
(husbandry). Full computer literacy. Basic legal document protocol. Animal
improvement Act, 1998 and other related Acts and regulations. Hard filing to
maintain the registers required by the Act. Produce regular and accurate
reports on animals, exports, imports and reproduction operators. The livestock
industry. Job Related Work Skills: Creative and innovative thinking and
problem solving. Sound communication (Written and Verbal). Good Planning,
organising and evaluation skills. Computer literacy. Ability to deal directly with
the livestock industry. Law enforcement. Report writing skills. Wiliness to work
overtime
DUTIES : Provision of technical and regulatory advice on animal products (live animals
and genetic material) in line with the Animal Improvement Act, 1998 (Act No 62
of 1998) or AIA. Provide technical and regulatory support to ensure genetic
integrity of animals. Provide advisory services and training of farmers and
relevant stakeholders on breeding standards. Provide presentations in terms
of the AIA. Evaluation of donor animals to ensure quality of animal products
4
(semen, ova, eggs and embryos). Monitoring, packaging, labelling and storage
of genetic material according to legal warranties and standards. Import and
Export control of animal products in line with Animal improvement Act, 1998(Act
62 of 1998). Assist with administration of AIA permits for import and export of
animal products (live animals, semen, ova, eggs, and embryos). Evaluation of
genetic profiles before issuance of permits Confirm approval of donor animals
before issuance of permits. Provide technical authorisations to ensure
importation of genetically superior animals. Assist with recognition and
registration of import agents for animal products. Liaison with clients in relation
to animal improvement. Liaison with the animal production industry on
technical and regulatory issues. Communicate technical and legislative issues
on animal improvement. Engagement with academic and research institutions
on animal improvement matters. Liaison with international regulatory bodies on
animal improvement issues. Participate in breeders’ societies ‘annual general
meetings to discuss constitution amendments to the AIA. Render
administrative functions. Supervise junior staff in the animal improvement
office. Update and maintain database on import and export of animal products
and reproduction operators. Assist the animal improvement office with bank
reconciliations. Consolidate monthly reports in the animal improvement office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mmaphuti Setati Tel: (012) 319 7093
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
APTrecruit38@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Persons with disability.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 at 16:00
5
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF BASIC EDUCATION
The Department of Basic Education is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric
targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. Preference will be given to underrepresented groups as
per the DBE Employment Equity Targets. Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Submitted via post to: Private Bag X895, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-deliver to: The
Department of Basic Education, 222 Struben Street, Pretoria or you can email
your application at HigherApplications@dbe.gov.za/
LowerApplications@dbe.gov.za. Please visit the Department of Education’s
website at www.education.gov.za or the Department of Public Service and
Administration vacancy circulars at www.dpsa.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Segowa/ Ms N Monyela/ Ms N Kumalo
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the most recently approved Z83 Application
for Employment Form, obtainable from the DBE Website or any Public Service
Department/Webpage. Use of the old Z83 Form will result in disqualification.
The Z83 must be completed in full and page 2 duly signed. A clear indication
of the post and reference number that is being applied for must be indicated
on your Z.83. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 with a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. (ONLY). Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates on or before
the day of the interview. Successful candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset record checks,
qualification and employment verification including social media profiles).
Appointment is subject to positive results of the security clearance process.
The successful candidate will be required to sign an annual performance
agreement and, where applicable, annually disclose his/her financial interests.
All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of
interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may
be associated with. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
requirements will not be considered. Applications received after the closing
date or faxed applications will not be considered.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/03 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: (PARTNERSHIPS IN EDUCATION) REF NO:
DBE/28/2026
Branch: Social Mobilisation and Support Services
Chief Directorate: Partnerships in Education
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum. (Level 14)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicants must be in possession of a qualification at NQF Level 7 as
recognised by SAQA; Five (5) years’ experience at Senior Managerial level is
required Experience, knowledge and understanding of violence prevention,
social cohesion and equity in education, sport, arts and culture; Experience in
discharging high level strategic planning processes, human resource
management and financial management; Excellent communication skills, inter-
personal skills and writing skills; Strong negotiation and presentation skills;
Experience of working closely and cooperatively with internal and external
associates; Excellent organisational, time management and administrative
skills; An understanding of Education policies and legislation; Process
Competencies: Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation;
Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientated and Customer Focus and
Communication skills; Core Competencies: Strategic capability and
Leadership; Programme and project management; Financial management;
Knowledge management; People management and Empowerment; Promotion
of communication, Innovation and Creativity; Applicants must have a valid
license and be willing to travel extensively.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for strategic and operational
leadership in the development, implementation, coordination and
implementation of education policies and legislation and policies, programmes
6
and systems to ensure quality education for all; Providing strategic leadership
and operational management of the Chief Directorate, which includes the
Directorates: Social Cohesion and Equity; School Sport and Enrichment as well
as Safety in Education; Promoting school sport, arts and culture programmes;
Promoting safety in education; Promoting social cohesion, human rights and
non-discrimination in education; Liaising and co-operating with Provincial
Education Departments, National Government Department, Universities,
Research Organisations, Sport Federation, as well as Non- Government
Organisations and Civic Organisations; Overseeing monitoring and evaluating
policies and strategies for promoting the work of the Chief Directorate;
Representing the Department, both internally and externally as required;
Liaising with and reporting to project funders; Managing the MTEF budgets and
monthly cashflow statements of the Chief Directorate; Coordinating and
monitoring the performance management and development as well as needs-
based capacity building of staff; Overseeing the development and
management of risk and fraud management plans; Coordinating and
monitoring the implementation of programmes as directed by the Council of
Education Ministers, Heads of Education Department Committee, the Minister
and Senior Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : A Certificate for SMS pre-entry programme is required for all SMS
appointments, the full details of the outlined requirements and course
information can be sourced by following the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical element of the job, the logistics of which
will be communicated by the department. Following the interview and the
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The incumbent
will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as annually
disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/04 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: NATIONAL SCHOOL NUTRITION PROGRAMME REF
NO: DBE/29/2026
Branch: Social Mobilisation and Support Services
Chief Directorate: Care and Support in Schools
Directorate: National School Nutrition Programme (NSNP)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum. (Level 12)
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a three (3) year relevant post matric
qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA
in Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E); At least four (4) years of relevant technical
experience as an Assistant Director or equivalent in research; Experience in
consolidating, analysing, interpretating and presenting performance data;
Complex and technical report; Ability to write; Ability to engage in proactive and
informative discussions at all levels; Knowledge of Monitoring and
Evaluation(M&E and Research Methodologies; Understanding of frameworks,
indicators and techniques for assessing program effectiveness; Understanding
of the National School Nutrition Programme (NSNP); Knowledge of public
sector legislative and regularity environment; knowledge of policy formulation;
Leadership, management and conflict resolution skills; Strong organisational,
planning and problem-solving skills; Effective public relations and public
speaking skills; Interpersonal and computer skills (MS Office package).
Strategic Capacity and Leadership, People Management and Empowerment,
Financial Management and Change Management, promotion of
communication, innovation and creativity; Ability to prepare speeches; the
candidate must be confident, trustworthy, accurate, adaptable and diplomatic;
Applicant must have a valid driver’s licence and willing to travel extensively.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the Directorate’s Annual
Strategic Plan, Annual Performance Plan (APP), and Operational Plan;
7
Collaborating with key role players ensuring that monitoring and evaluation of
the programme is aligned with the M&E Framework, including Provincial NSNP
Teams responsible for Monitoring, Reporting and Response (MRR); Reviewing
and strengthening the M&E Framework; Building processes or systems
towards MRR digitisation; Coordinating monitoring activities and ensuring the
Directorate meets its targets; Monitoring and facilitating internal and external
research/evaluation of the NSNP; Supporting and holding provinces
accountable for providing quality-assured and timeous reports; Consolidating,
analysing, and reporting on quarterly programme performance data; Reviewing
the Directorate’s monthly and quarterly performance information reports and
supporting evidence; Compiling and customising reports for various audiences
as requested by the Directorate; Reviewing and analysing provincial business
plans; Attending to internal and external audit findings, resolving audit matters
and reporting on progress; Identifying and reporting on key programme risks
on the Risk Register; Developing and reviewing monitoring tools and reporting
templates; Facilitating training on programme implementation; Communicating
effectively with internal and external stakeholders; Liaising and networking with
research organisations; Providing effective monitoring, evaluation and support
to Provinces, Districts, and Schools for compliance with the NSNP Framework
and Treasury Regulations. Ensuring performance development and
performance management of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 18/05 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL BUDGET MONITORING AND
SUPPORT REF NO: DBE/30/2026
Branch: Finance and Administration.
Chief Directorate: Financial Management Services.
Directorate: Provincial Budget Monitoring and Support
SALARY : R932 292 per annum. (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a three (3) year relevant post matric
qualification (NQF level 6) in Financial Management/Accounting or other
similar qualification recognised by SAQA; At least four (4) years' experience as
Assistant Director or equivalent level; Four (4) years’ experience in budget
analysis environment. Experience of working with financial statements, supply
chain management, data management, database and report writing;
Proficiency in computer applications; Experience in coordinating provincial
financial support; Knowledge of government transversal systems and
understanding of public sector budget planning, budget analysis, auditing,
budgeting and financial accounting; Knowledge of the King Reports, PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, PPPFA, Public Service Act and other prescripts; Good
communication skills (verbal and written) and interpersonal skills, Change
Management, Conflict Management, People management, Planning and
Organising skills, risk management and computer skills (MS Office package).
Ability to travel.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for ensuring effective monitoring
and evaluation; Reporting financial performance of the Provincial Education
Departments (PEDs) in alignment with their Annual Performance Plans and
Strategic Plans; Ensuring improved quality of Provincial Education budget and
funding of educational priorities; Liaising with stakeholders and DBE with
regards to the PEDs financial performance; Facilitating capacity building on
analysis, monitoring and reporting of the financial information and spending
trends; Strengthening financial management reporting and decision making
processes; Conducting constant assessment to ensure that approved
provincial financial plans in line with relevant financial processes and
prescripts; Travelling to PEDs for monitoring purposes Ensuring performance
development and performance management of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
8
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 18/06 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MEDIA LIAISON AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL
RELATIONS REF NO: DBE/31/2026
Branch: Office of the Director-General
Chief Directorate: Communication Media liaison and Provincial
Communication.
SALARY : R932 292 per annum. (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a three (3) year relevant post matric
qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA
in communications; At least four (4) years relevant experience as an Assistant
Director or equivalent level; Experience of working within government
communication; Knowledge and understanding of the Basic Education Sector,
Government communication policies, programmes and priorities; Extensive
experience in external communication with strong inter-governmental and
community liaison focus; Excellent writing and editing skills; Planning,
organising and project management skills; Strong inter-governmental and
financial management skills; Good communication (verbal and written
communications skills); Excellent computer skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS
PowerPoint, MS Outlook, and Internet Explorer); Ability to work accurately and
independently; Ability to handle crisis communication, war-room management
and coordination, Sound inter-personal relations, facilitation and negotiation
skills; Ability to communicate with stakeholders at all levels; Knowledge and
skills in formulating and writing reports; Ability to work well in a team; Strong
administrative skills, People management and budget, management skills,
Ability institute risk management and administer tender procurement
processes in accordance with the PFMA; Strategic capability and leadership
skills; Knowledge and experience in managing personnel; Valid driver’s
license; Ability to travel and work long hours including weekends.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing strategic advice and
analysis on matters of intergovernmental relations and community liaison;
Enhancing intersectoral collaboration and playing a key role in the
advancement of the Department of Basic Education’s priorities; Supporting the
Director in providing strategic communication leadership in the Basic Education
Sector, Provincial Education Departments and statutory bodies; Leading the
development of the Department of Basic Education’s overall intergovernmental
and community liaison strategy to support the sector in the advancement of the
intergovernmental elements of key policy initiatives; Co-ordinating
intergovernmental relations and community liaison for the Department of Basic
Education; Promoting intergovernmental co-operation and community liaison
through approved protocols; Supporting the Director on facilitating inter-
sectoral intergovernmental and community liaison co-operation; Assisting the
Director with the management of the HEDCOM Sub-Committee on
Communications the attendance and management of inter-governmental
forums; Providing strategic photojournalism, advising and analysing matters of
publication designs and production; Assisting the Director with videography
and internal-communication; Enhancing the delivery of publication,
photojournalism, videography and internal communication services for the
advancement of the Department of Basic Education’s priorities; Leading the
development of the Department of Basic Education’s overall publication,
photojournalism, videography and internal communication strategy to support
the sector in the advancement of the key policy initiatives; Co-ordinating the
provision of publication conceptualisation, design and layout services to all
Directorates, the Director-General and the Ministry; Co-ordinating the weekly
publication of the Departmental Newsletter; Co-ordinating the management of
internal communication platforms (e.g. intranet, e-mail signatures, electronic
and static notice boards, e-mail broadcast messages etc.);Co-ordinating the
management of photojournalism, editing and videography services to all
Directorates, the Director General and the Ministry; Maintaining a professional
relationship with all internal and external stakeholders; Managing personnel
9
and service providers; Providing general strategic communications support to
the Director Ensuring performance development and performance
management of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 18/07 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (PROCUREMENT): SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DBE/32/2026
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Financial Management Services
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum. (Level 9)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a three (3) year relevant post matric
qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA
in Public Administration, Supply Chain Management, Procurement Logistics;
Three (3) years relevant experience at supervisory level; Three (3) years
relevant experience in Supply Chain Management (SCM); Experience in
Provisioning and Procurement Environment; Knowledge of Treasury
Regulations and all relevant legislation governing the Supply Chain
Management and Provisioning; Communication skills (verbal and written),
Time management, Computer literacy (MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Word,
MS Excel, Logistical Information System (LOGIS) and BAS; Ability to work as
a team; Good interpersonal relations; Ability to solve problems; Ability to attend
to details; Excellent numeracy skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for ensuring adherence to PFMA,
PPPFA, Treasury Regulations, SCM frameworks and DBE SCM policy;
Ensuring that the quotation processes and standard bidding documents are in
compliance and accordance with department policies, procedures and all
applicable legislative requirements; Managing Transversal contracts; Ensuring
acquisition through Transversal compliance with the engagement model and
all SCM prescripts; Ensuring timeous payments of all Transversal contracts;
Managing the creation of purchase orders; Ensuring timely capturing of internal
requisitions; Ensuring that purchase orders are authorised as per SCM
processes and ensuring safekeeping of purchase orders; Ensuring the integrity
of LOGIS; Managing and analysing LOGIS reports and preparing monthly
management reports; Managing payments for goods, services and assets;
Managing the processing of payments and ensuring safekeeping of payments
documents; Ensuring that invoices are captured on LOGIS on time; Conducting
risk assessment and implementing mitigating measures; Reconciling
statements from suppliers; Managing stores and warehouse; Managing
deliveries; Managing spot checks and stock taking bi-annually; Addressing
obsolete, surplus, and redundant stock; Monitoring warehouse and logistical
flow of materials; Managing financial reporting; Compiling monthly payment
reports, monthly Interim Financial Statements and Annual Financial
Statements commitment reports; Managing monthly statement, Interim
Financial Statements and Annual Financial Statements accruals and payable
reports and weekly invoice reports; Responding to audit queries and
implementing audit recommendations; Maintaining accurate records for audit
and reporting purposes; Providing leadership and guidance to subordinates;
Ensuring performance development and performance management of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
10
POST 18/08 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BIDS AND CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION REF
NO: DBE/33/2026
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Financial Management Services
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R487 197.per annum. (Level 9)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a three (3) year relevant post matric
qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA
in Public Administration, Supply Chain Management, Procurement, Logistics;
A Minimum of three (3) years relevant Supply Chain Management; Experience
in Bids Management and Acquisition Management; Knowledge of procurement
policies, regulations and relevant legislations governing the Bids Administration
and Acquisitions Management; Communication skills (Verbal and Written),
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook and
BAS); Ability to work as a team; Good interpersonal relations; Ability to solve
problems; Attention to details and excellent numeric skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for managing the Acquisition
process effectively; Attending and advising during the Bid Specification
Committee (BSC) or Bid Evaluation Committee (BEC) meetings; Attending and
responding to the audit findings; Providing secretariat function and support to
the BSC and BEC; Compiling submissions after the BAC has made
recommendations to the Director General; Compiling the bid committees
reports; Compiling the monthly reports; Administering contracts’ compliance;
Assisting the Deputy Director by providing Secretariat function and support to
the Bid Adjudication Committee (BAC); Drafting letters to Bidders informing
them about the outcome of the bid after the finalisation of the bidding process;
Facilitating the finalisation of the contracts/SLA in consultation with Legal
Services; Facilitating and ensuring that payments of Suppliers Service
Providers are done within 30 days; Notifying the Suppliers Service providers/
Contractors regularly on the status or expiry of contracts; Updating the
Commitment Register when payments are processed; Coordinating and
monitoring the Contracts; Ensuring proper record keeping of all contracts and
relevant documentations; Reviewing modifications, extensions and contract
close-out documents for further action; Attending and responding to the audit
findings; Performing any other work as related duties by the managers.
Ensuring performance development and performance management of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 18/09 : SENIOR INTERNAL AUDITOR REF NO: DBE/34/2026
Branch: Office of the Director-General.
Directorate: Internal Audit, Risk Management and Investigation
SALARY : R413 001.per annum. (Level 8)
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a three (3) year relevant post matric
qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA
in Accounting /Auditing/ Internal Auditing. A minimum of two (2) years’
experience in Internal Auditing or External Auditing; Knowledge and skills in
Internal Auditing, Risk Management, Accounting and Corporate Governance;
A minimum of one (1) year exposure in supervision on junior staff; Exposure to
Public Service legislation, policies and procedures; Membership of the Institute
of Internal Auditors and drivers’ licence; Computer Skills (MS Office);
Benchmarking and networking skills are required to be abreast with current
developments in the field of auditing.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for Conducting audit projects from
planning to reporting; Assisting in evaluating the department’s governance, risk
management and controls processes; Conducting audits to determine and
evaluate the adequacy, effectiveness, and efficiency of controls in accordance
11
with the methodology; Contributing to the achievement of the internal audit
coverage plan; Collecting information and participating in the compiling reports
to the accounting officer and audit committee; Keeping up to date with new
developments in the internal audit environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 18/10 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (SECRETARIAT OF THE LOSS AND
DISPOSAL COMMITTEE) REF NO: DBE/35/2026
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Financial Management Services
Directorate: Security and Assets Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum. (Level 8)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An applicant must be in possession of a 3 years post matric qualification (NQF
level 6) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; At least two (2)
years relevant experience in the management of the loss and disposal process
in Government; Experience in working with BAS; Ability to work individually and
in a team; Ability to collaborate effectively with stakeholders at various levels;
Knowledge of the departmental policies and Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA); Practical knowledge of the implementation of the Treasury
Regulations; Good communication skills (written and verbal); Ability to write of
minutes and the develop the agendas; Knowledge of Microsoft Officer
package; Relevant experience or understanding the payment process of
invoices; Understanding the turnaround time.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for receiving all the information
on cases and relevant supporting documentation and opening a case file for
each case; Receiving all the cases and all relevant documentation from the
Loss Control Officer; Ensuring completeness of the agenda by reconciling
reported cases; Including the cases in the agenda to be discussed at the Loss
and Disposal Committee meeting; Taking minutes for every Loss and Disposal
Meeting; Distributing minutes to all the members to enable them to take the
necessary actions and provide input where necessary; Distributing preliminary
recommendations made by the Loss and Disposal Committee to all the
members to enable them to follow-up on the recommendations; Following-up
on a weekly basis on the progress made on recommendations made by the
Loss and Disposal Committee and provide feedback to the Loss Control
Officer.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 18/11 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PUBLIC EXAMINATION
ADMINISTRATIONREF NO: DBE/36/2026
Branch: Curriculum Policy Support and Monitoring.
Chief Directorate: National Assessment and Public Examinations
SALARY : R413 001 per annum. (Level 8)
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a three (3) year relevant post matric
qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA;
Two (2) years’ experience in administrative of examination process; Good
understanding of the operation of the Public Sector; Good interpersonal
relations; Good communication skills (written and verbal); Good telephone
etiquette; Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS
12
Outlook); Ability to think clearly and concisely, be friendly, confident, Ability to
work independently; Ability to work under pressure; Ability to multi-task and
cope with a high workload; General office management; Willingness to learn
quickly; Accuracy and be adaptable; Planning and organisational skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing administrative
support to the unit responsible for Policy and Irregularities; Assisting with the
administration of all examination processes relating to policy and irregularities;
Assisting with the coordination of the nine Provincial Education Departments
(PEDs) through organising meetings for the National Examinations and
Assessment Committee (NEAC), Heads of Examinations (HOEs), National
Examinations Irregularities Committee (NEIC), Policy Task Team (PTT) and
any other coordinating committees and task teams that may be established;
Supporting the unit in collating reports on irregularities from the nine PEDs;
Updating and maintaining a national database and register on irregularities;
Supporting the unit in preparing presentations on irregularities for the National
Examinations Irregularities Committee, writing submissions and memos;
Assisting with the report writing of irregularities prepared for the Minister of
Basic Education and Umalusi for approval of the examinations results; Drafting
letters to Umalusi for assessment concessions and administrating the
concession; Supporting the unit in drafting the budget and keeping record of
expenditure; Processing remuneration claims as required; Providing general
office support, including filing, tracking and processing of documents and
correspondence, compiling and reporting financial updates, managing leaves,
assuming secretarial functions when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 18/12 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: NATIONAL ASSESSMENTS REF
NO: DBE/37/2026
Branch: Curriculum Policy Support and Monitoring
Chief Directorate: National Assessment and Public Examinations
SALARY : R413 001 per annum. (Level 8)
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a three (3) year relevant post matric
qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA;
Two (2) years relevant experience; Good understanding of the operation of the
Public Sector; Good interpersonal relations; Good communication skills
(written and verbal); Good telephone etiquette; Computer literacy (MS Word,
MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook); Ability to think clearly and
concisely, be friendly, confident, work independently; Ability to work under
pressure; Ability to multi-task and cope with a high workload; General office
management; Willingness to learn quickly; Accuracy and be adaptable;
Planning and organisational skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for coordinating events and
project relating to national and international assessment programmes;
Providing specific support to the Directorate in implementing the National
Assessment Framework; Including filing, tracking and processing of
documents and correspondence; Compiling and reporting financial updates;
Consolidating and compiling of quarterly reports on national assessment
projects; Coordinating logistical and administrative functions relating to travel
and accommodation of appointed assessors as well as contracted local and
international researchers/specialists appointed in the Directorate; Checking
and verifying all payments relating to subsistence and travel as well as
remuneration of appointed assessors and contracted local and international
researchers/specialists appointed in the Directorate; Facilitating participation
and partnership agreements with local and international agencies/institutions;
Providing administrative and logistical support to the Directorate; Coordinating
administrative support across sub-units in the Directorate; Providing
administrative support relating to procurement of goods and services of the
Directorate; Coordinating provincial assessment coordinators meetings and
13
the General Education and Training Assessment Committee meetings;
Providing secretariat support for projects as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 18/13 : CHIEF ACCOUNTING CLERK: (SALARIES) REF NO: DBE/38/2026
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Financial Management Services
Directorate: Financial Services
SALARY : R338 106.per annum. (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate or equivalent
qualification; Three (3) years’ experience in Salary Management; Experience
in working with the PERSAL and BAS system; Knowledge of PFMA and
Treasury Regulations; Proficiency in english; Good communication (verbal and
written communication skills); Good interpersonal relations, analytical and
decision-making skills; Ability to handle confidential matters; Ability to exercise
discrete when dealing with people; Computer literate (MS Office Programs).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for calculating and processing
payments of salary related matters; Calculating and processing payments of
claims for examiners and moderators; Calculating and processing payments of
leave gratuities, severance pay and service bonus on service terminations;
Implementing deductions on the PERSAL system; Salary claims in terms of
transfer; Distributing salary advice; Managing monthly payroll schedules;
Distributing monthly PERSAL reports; Liaising and rendering professional
salary advice to clients within and outside the Department; Performing other
work related duties as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 18/14 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: DBE/39/2026
Branch: Social Mobilisation and Support Services.
Chief Directorate: Care and Support on Schools.
Directorate: National School Nutrition Programme (NSNP)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum. (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a three (3) year relevant post matric
qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA;
Good understanding of the National School Nutrition Programme; A minimum
of one (1) year relevant experience in the operation of the Public Sector;
Conceptual and analytical skills; Verbal and writing communication skills;
Report writing; Problem solving skills; Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel,
Outlook, Power-Point presentation); Ability to communicate with stakeholders
at different level; Presentation skills; Driver's license.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for assisting with the collection,
capturing, verification and consolidation of programme information; Updating
and maintaining the NSNP record keeping system; Providing data
management and information flow in the Directorate; Compiling monthly
monitoring schedule; Supporting the review of monitoring tools, tracking
progress on Monitoring targets, Reporting and Response (MRR) Dashboards;
Assisting with the preparation of reports, presentations and source data from
the MRR dashboard; Supporting directorate’s research project; Assisting with
other NSNP activities as required within the Directorate.
14
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 18/15 : SENIOR SECRETARY: REF NO: DBE/40/2026 (X8 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Strategic Planning, Research Evaluation and Monitoring
Directorate: Social Cohesion and Equity in Education;
Curriculum Implementation and Quality Improvement (GET); Inclusive
Education; Education Management and Governance Development; Reading;
Rural Education; Human Resources Management and Administration.
SALARY : R280 278.per annum.( Level 6)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a Senior Certificate or equivalent
qualification; The ideal candidate must have a good understanding of the
operation of the Public Sector; Good interpersonal relations; Good
communication skills (written and verbal); Good telephone etiquette; Computer
literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook); Ability to think
clearly and concisely, be friendly, confident, work independently; Ability to work
under pressure; Ability to multi-task and cope with a high workload; General
office management; Willingness to learn quickly; Accuracy and be adaptable;
Planning and organisational skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for secretarial and general
administrative support services to the Chief Directorate/Directorate;
Maintaining a professional relationship with internal and external stakeholders
and serve as a direct point of contact for visitors; Taking responsibility for the
general organisation, tidiness and image of the Office of the Chief
Directorate/Directorate; Handling, screening and managing incoming and
outgoing telephone calls, taking messages and routing telephone calls to the
Chief Directorate/Directorate or relevant units ensuring the efficient flow of
information; Managing and coordinating the diary of the manager; Facilitating
logistical arrangements for meetings, workshops and appointments; Making
arrangements for the Chief Directorate/Directorate work-related travel itinerary
by coordinating transport, accommodation requirements, compiling,
reconciling subsistence and travel claims; Maintaining a document
management in an orderly filing system (electronically and manually);
Managing all documents, receiving, recording, screening, quality assuring,
filing and dispatching all documents (submissions and memorandums); Quality
assuring submissions and reports; Assisting with the consolidation of the
Directorate’s/ Chief Directorates reports; Providing secretariat support during
meetings and drafting minutes as required; Performing other work related
duties as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 18/16 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: DBE/41/2026 (X4 POSTS)
Branch: Office of the Director-General
SALARY : R237 453 per annum. (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : The applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate or equivalent
qualification; Knowledge of E-Submission; Knowledge of Director-General
(DG) Memos; Good understanding of Parliamentary Questions; Ability to work
in a team; Verbal and writing communication skills; Report writing; Problem
solving skills; Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, Outlook, Power point
15
presentation); Ability to interact with stakeholders at all levels; Basic
Presentation skills; Driver's license.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for rendering general clerical
support services within the Office of the Director-General; Receiving,
recording, and distributing incoming and outgoing correspondence; Receiving
visitors and providing basic administrative assistance; Coordinating enquiries
to the Office of Director-General from internal and external stakeholders;
Maintaining proper filing systems and ensuring safekeeping of documents;
Maintaining office supplies and ensuring stationery availability; Capturing data
and updating administrative records and databases; Providing registry and
document tracking support.; Providing technical support for Smartgov;
Providing support during interviews, workshops and departmental events;
Assisting with the preparation, photocopying, scanning, and distribution of
documents; Assisting with Parliamentary enquiries; Assisting with travel and
accommodation arrangements where required; Assisting on DG’s projects,
including Basic Education Sector Lekgotla, DG engagements with provinces;
Arranging meetings, venues, and logistical requirements when required;
Handling telephone enquiries and direct calls appropriately; Supporting the
coordination of submissions, reports, and compliance documents; Ensuring
accurate record keeping and adherence to administrative procedures;
Performing other administrative duties delegated by supervisors or
management; Performing general office support to the PA of the Director-
General.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 18/16 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: DBEDBE/42/2026 (X3
POSTS)
Branch: Curriculum Policy, Support and Monitoring.
Chief Directorate: Curriculum Implementation and Monitoring
Directorate: Curriculum, Implementation and Quality Improvement (FET)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum. (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a Senior Certificate or equivalent
qualification; Good understanding of the operation of the Public Sector; Good
interpersonal relations; Good communication skills (written and verbal); Good
telephone etiquette; Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint
and MS Outlook); Ability to think clearly and concisely, be friendly, confident,
work independently; Ability to work under pressure; Ability to multi-task and
cope with a high workload; General office management; Willingness to learn
quickly; Accuracy and be adaptable; Planning and organisational skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing admin support to
FET Subject Specialist; Following up on communication to and from the office
of the Director; Following-up on outstanding invoices through procurement and
assets section; Working with the Provincial Education Department (PED’s)
officials in programmes led by the FET Directorate; Coordinating leave forms,
telephone accounts and other delegated functions; Analysing cash flow on
monthly basis; Completing and verifying the claims for overtime payment;
Requesting equipment quotations and process receipt of equipment;
Arranging the workshops and conferences and providing administrative
support throughout the duration of the functions; Making travel arrangements
and process S&T for the Directorate; Arranging Directorate Meetings, taking
and distributing minutes; Arranging meetings with stakeholders and take
minutes; Setting up MS teams meetings when requested and providing
secretarial support; Writing memos when required; Assisting with History
Ministerial Task Team; Assisting other Directorates with work related when
requested.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
16
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
POST 18/18 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT (REGISTRY AND RELATED
SERVICES REF NO: DBE/43/2026
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Financial Management Services
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
Sub-division: Registry and Related Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum. (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a Senior Certificate or equivalent
qualification; Excellent interpersonal relations and communication skills
(Written and Verbal); Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint
and MS Outlook); Numeracy skills ;Reliable; Ability to work under pressure and
perform physical work; Ability to work in a team; A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for driving services on a daily
basis to the bank; Delivering, collecting documents, mailing parcels, packages,
couriering mails, registering mails and parcels within the Department promptly;
Delivering and collecting mail documents from Post-Office, other Departments
and SITA; Sorting, distributing incoming and outgoing mail daily to relevant
officials; Assisting with general administrative duties; Filing of documents,
opening and sorting of mail delivering of ordinary mail/parcel to relevant
officials within the Department; Performing other work related duties as
delegated.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms N Monyela (012) 357 3294/ Mr M
Segowa (012) 357 4291.
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose their financial
interests and be subjected to a security clearance.
17
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES
The Department is an equal opportunity organisation and intends to promote equity through the filling of
these posts. Candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote the achievement of
employment equity within the Department will receive preference, in particular, the persons with
disabilities and youth.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
NOTE : Applications: Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference
number, to the link quoted in the specific advertisement below. This link
requires applicants to use a Google account. Applications must be submitted
with two (2) attachments: 1. A Z83 Form (2021 version), obtainable from the
DPSA website (Z83 editable) and 2. A recently updated comprehensive
Curriculum Vitae. If either of these two attachments are not submitted, the
applicant’s application will be disqualified. Each post advert must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully
completed, initialed and signed by the applicant. Applications received after the
closing date will not be considered. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications obtained and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview, following communication from
Human Resources and will be subjected to verification by the South African
Qualifications Authority. Candidates in possession of a foreign qualification
must also provide an evaluation certificate issued by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at own expense. Failure to submit the
requested documents will result in the application not being considered further.
Due to the anticipated large volume of responses, correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other will be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. After the pre-
entry assessments, an oral interview will be conducted. Suitable candidates
will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record, citizenship,
credit record checks, qualification verification and employment verification). By
responding to the advertisement, applicants consent to the collection,
processing and storing of their Personal Information in accordance with the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Act No. 4 of 2013. Candidates
will therefore be required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for
the Department to conduct the verifications. Information will be used for the
purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose of the
position/vacancy you have applied for and will not be shared with third parties
without prior consent, unless required by law. All applicants must declare any
conflict or perceived conflict of interest and must disclose membership on
Boards and directorships associated with. If you have not been contacted
within six (6) months of the closing date, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. The CVs submitted will be destroyed as legislated in the
National Archives Act. In the event that your application is unsuccessful, the
Department will retain your personal information only for audit purposes as
required by policies. All the information requested now or during the process is
required for recruitment purposes. Failure to provide the requested information
will result in your application not being considered further. The Department
reserves the right not to make an appointment to the advertised post(s). The
successful candidate must disclose particulars of all registrable financial
interests and sign an employment contract within one month from the date of
assumption of duty. A Performance Agreement must be concluded and signed
within three months from the date of assumption of duty.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/19 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ICT DATA GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE
(REF: DDDGRC)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12) (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
18
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 6 qualification in Information Technology / Computer
Science / Electronic Engineering or relevant equivalent qualification as
recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority. A minimum of five (5)
years’ experience ofs which three (3) years should be at an Assistant Director
/ middle managerial level or equivalent working experience in Information
Communication Technology, Digital Government or Digital Transformation
environment. Skills / Competencies And Knowledge: Job knowledge, Quality
of work, Initiatives, Planning and executions, Communication, Teamwork,
Reliability, Data governance principles, Metadata management and
interoperability frameworks, Data management tools and platforms to support
secure data handling, Risk Management, Project Management, Software
Development in Java/PHP/Python.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to support the implementation of data governance
frameworks, policies, and standards by coordinating operational data
management activities, ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements and enabling secure and ethical use of government digital data
assets in support of digital government and digital transformation. The
successful candidate will support the rollout, operationalisation, and
continuous improvement of data governance frameworks, including master
data management, metadata, and data catalogue implementation. Monitor and
evaluate data quality, integrity, and security across ICT systems, ensuring
timely identification and resolution of risks or non-compliance issues. Promote
and apply digital government principles (openness, transparency, citizen-
centricity, and interoperability) in all data-related initiatives and systems.
Support in monitoring adherence to relevant legislation (e.g., POPIA, PFMA,
and ICT regulations) and industry standards for data protection, retention, and
ethical use. Contribute to building institutional capacity in data governance and
support initiatives to strengthen interoperability of systems across the
department and SOEs. Ensure departmental adherence to data protection
regulations and support the enforcement of national and international
standards on data governance and cybersecurity. Lead the technical and
governance aspects of implementing and monitoring the digital transformation
roadmap’s data exchanger and related MOSIP integration projects. Provide
input and technical support in the oversight of related DCDT State-Owned
Entities (SOEs), ensuring alignment with departmental data governance,
compliance and integration standards. Identify and report emerging risks in
data governance, security, and compliance, and recommend corrective or
preventative actions to senior management. Contributing to key result areas
such as project management, manage financial resources, driving change and
operational excellence and manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Cilo +27 12 427 8514, Ms N Khosa +27 12 427 8260, Ms N Sekele +27
12 427 8599
APPLICATION : Link CLICK HERE
POST 18/20 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT (REF: ASDFM)
Nature Of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 6 qualification in Facilities Management / Logistics
Management / Safety Management or relevant equivalent qualification as
recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority. A minimum of three
(3) years’ experience at supervisory level within the field of Facilities
Management / Safety Management environment. Skills / Competencies And
Knowledge: Communications, Computer skills report writing, Client Orientation
and customer focus, Honesty and integrity, Service delivery innovation,
Interpersonal skills, Confidentiality, Maintenance and repairs, Time
management, Stress management, Understanding of HIRA, Understand
accommodation needs analysis process, Compilation of User Asset
Management Plan, Emergency planning and business continuity, Property
management, SAMTRAC, Workplace incident investigation.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to provide facilities, auxiliary and occupational health
and safety services to the Department. The successful candidate will ensure
that facilities and auxiliary services are managed. Conduct SHE awareness
sessions for management on health and safety practices and legislation,
establish and maintain SHE committees. Investigate, report accidents and
19
report hazards, incidents, injuries and health issues within the workplace.
Develop physical facilities strategy for the department. Facilitate the renewal
of lease and procurement of alternative accommodation. Assist with the
provision of cleaning and pest control services. Facilitate the implementation
of the Business Continuity Plan. Assist with the payment of lease rentals and
municipal services. Develop physical security strategy for the department.
Ensure facilities, and hygiene policies are in place and up to date. Contributing
to key result areas such as project management, manage financial resources,
driving change and operational excellence and ensure compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Cilo +27 12 427 8514, Ms N Khosa +27 12 427 8260, Ms N Sekele +27
12 427 8599
APPLICATION : Link: CLICK HERE
POST 18/21 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SALARIES AND PAYROLL (REF: ASDSP)
Nature Of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Financial Management / Accounting
/ Financial Sciences or relevant equivalent qualification as recognised by the
South African Qualifications Authority. A minimum of three (3) years relevant
supervisory experience in Salaries environment. Experience of working on
SARS Easy file for submission of EMP201 and EMP501 an added advantage.
Skills / Competencies And Knowledge: Communications, Computer skills
report writing, Client Orientation and customer focus, Honesty and integrity,
Service delivery innovation, Interpersonal skills, Confidentiality, PERSAL, BAS,
Vulindela, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury regulations,
Modified Cash Standards, Income Tax Act), Financial reporting, Payroll
management, Salary administration, Debt Management, Data analysis.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to maintain and monitor proper payroll management,
salary-related payments and debt collection. The successful candidate will
ensure the accurate and timely processing of payroll, including salaries,
allowances, deductions and benefits. Assist employees with calculation of both
foreign and local S&T claims. Check and authorize travel and subsistence
claims on the PERSAL system to ensure that claims are correctly paid.
Reconciliation of debt, S&T Advance and salary related suspense accounts:
requesting BAS reports of salary related suspense accounts; clearing all
possible transactions; calculating manual tax to be paid over to SARS;
ensuring SARS payment is processed in time; reconciling monthly tax;
ensuring total tax paid corresponds with amount on EMP201; attending to
AA88, requesting PERSAL reports and clearing all tax exceptions monthly.
Ensuring IRP5 accumulations are updated weekly. Authorising all debt created
on BAS; ensuring continued follow up on all debt cases. Administer employee
remuneration in line with approved salary structures, and relevant public
service frameworks. Ensure payroll compliance with applicable legislation such
as the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations, tax
laws, and labour regulations. Facilitate salary-related transactions on the
PERSAL system to ensure that employees are correctly paid. Perform monthly
payroll reconciliations, verify payroll accuracy, and prepare payroll reports for
management and audit purposes. Implement and maintain internal controls to
prevent payroll fraud, errors, and irregular payments within their area of
responsibility. Perform salary controller functions for PERSAL, attend PERSAL
forum meetings and implement PERSAL notices and new developments.
Attend to request for payslips and IRP5 certificates and other salary related
reports. Compile and submit to SARS bi-annual and annual tax reconciliations
for the department. Compile and submits inputs to the annual and Interim
Financial Statements in accordance with Modified Cash Standards. Assist with
calculations of VAT on imported services. Contributing to key result areas such
as project management, managing financial resources, driving change and
operational excellence and manage compliance. Allocating work to
subordinates; supervising the salary office; responding to salary related
enquiries; assisting with audit queries
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Cilo +27 12 427 8514, Ms N Khosa +27 12 427 8260, Ms N Sekele +27
12 427 8599
APPLICATION : Link: CLICK HERE
20
ANNEXURE D
THE DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY
The Department of Electricity and Energy (DEE) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action employer and
it is its intention to promote representativity in the Public Sector through the filling of this post(s).
Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity are encouraged to apply,
particularly persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An
indication of such, in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : Submit your completed application using one of the following methods, post:
The Director-General, Department of Electricity and Energy, Private Bag X96,
Pretoria, 0001, or hand deliver at Matimba House Building 192 Visagie Street
(Corner Paul Kruger & Visagie Street), Pretoria, or email directly to the email
address dedicated to a specific post. General enquiries may be brought to the
attention of Ms M Palare 012 406 7426.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 at 16h00 (Walk-in) 23h59 (online). N.B: It is the sole
responsibility of an applicant to ensure that their application reaches the
Department on or before the set deadline.
NOTE : Applicants are informed to submit their application(s) by completing the 2021
version of the Z83 form quoting the relevant reference number and a
comprehensive CV only. The CV must indicate qualifications, experience “if
any” and the period thereof. The 2021 version of the Z83 form is obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za or www.gov.za/documents. It is important to ensure that the
Z83 is completed in full. This means that all fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. It is acceptable under section E, F, G, for
applicants to indicate “refer to CV or see attached” due to the limited space
provided on the Z83 form. However, the question relating to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered, but if you are already
in Public Service just indicate “N/A”. Please initial the form and sign the
declaration. Email application(s) must strictly be submitted as one (1) PDF
document or attachment (i.e. Z83 and CV scanned as one PDF document). It
is also important to indicate the correct job title and the reference number of
the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address
associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be
accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Applications
submitted using the incorrect application form (old Z83) will not be considered.
Each advertised post must be accompanied by its own application for
employment. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview. Applicants in possession of foreign qualifications must submit an
evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) if
shortlisted. The Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants
who do not comply with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well
as applications received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the
requested documents will result in the application not being considered. If you
have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All applicants for SMS posts will be also
subjected to a technical exercise and an interview. Following the interview and
technical exercise, then the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment using the mandated
DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. No SMS post appointment shall be
implemented without the relevant candidate producing the pre-entry certificate
for SMS (Nyukela) obtainable from www.thensg.gov.za . Suitable candidates
will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship,
credit record checks, qualification verification and employment verification).
Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection,
processing, and storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used
solely for the administration of the recruitment process or possible employment
and will not be shared with third parties without prior consent unless required
by law. The Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to
the below advertised post(s) at any stage of the recruitment process. The
21
successful candidate will be expected to enter into a performance agreement
within three (3) months from the date of appointment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/22 : INSPECTOR: NUCLEAR ENFORCEMENT & COMPLIANCE (REF:
DEE2026/013)
SALARY : R932 292.per annum (Level 11) (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A/an appropriate Bachelor of Science/Honours Degree in Physics/Chemistry
Chemical Engineering/ Nuclear Engineering NQF Level 7 recognised by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA), PLUS 3 years minimum relevant
experience at junior management/inspector in the nuclear industry or nuclear
non-proliferation. Physical and environmental demand, frequent local travel
and occasional international travel. Knowledge of: Knowledge of Nuclear policy
and legislations, Nuclear Energy in general and Nuclear Non-Proliferation in
particular. Government and Departmental process, procedures, protocol and
international obligations. Skills: Computer literacy, Communication, Project
Management, Interpersonal and Analytical skills, instruments calibration,
information collection, good writing, organisation and coordination skills
Thinking Demands: Analytical thinking and information evaluation.
DUTIES : /KRA’s: Develop and maintain guidelines/frameworks for compliance.
Ensure/conduct pre-inspection prior the issued authorisations. Ensure/conduct
inspection at nuclear or related facilities to monitor compliance with legislation
and authorisation conditions. Monitor compliance regarding the issued
authorisations. Participate in the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
inspections. Monitor safeguards implementation by NECSA to ensure
compliance to Nuclear Non-Proliferation obligations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Lillian Shai Contact Number 012 406 7468
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies3@dee.gov.za
POST 18/23 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: INTERNAL AUDIT (REF: DEE2026/014)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Diploma in Office Administration/ Office Management and
Technology or Public Administration at NQF level 6 recognised by South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA) PLUS 1 year post qualification
experience. Knowledge of relevant legislation/ policies/prescripts and
procedures. Basic knowledge of financial administration Skills: Language skills
and the ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from
different backgrounds, Good telephone etiquette, Computer literacy, Sound
organizational skills, Good people skills, High level of reliability, Ability to act
with tact discretion, Self-management and motivation. Thinking Demand:
Ability to do research and analyse documents and situations.
DUTIES : /KRA’s: Provide secretariat/receptionist support service to the Director. Render
administrative support services. Provides support to manager regarding
meeting. Support the manager with the administration of the budget. Studies
the relevant Public Service and departmental prescripts/policies and other
documents and ensure that the application thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Figaret Contact Number (012) 406 7766
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies4@dee.gov.za
22
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicate
the correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of
your email. Use the correct email address associated with the post. Failure to
do so, your application will be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant
reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from
any Public Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents.
Received applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83)
will not be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in posession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act(POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/24 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: WORK-SEEKER REGISTRATION AND EMPLOYER
SERVICES REF NO: HR 4/4/8/167
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office Northern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A Qualification at NQF 6 as recognised by South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) in Social Sciences (Psychology)/ Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/ Public
23
Administration/ Public Management/ Business Administration/ Business
Management. Five (5) years’ experience of which two (2) years at the assistant
Director level and three (3) years functional experience in Public Employment
Services (PES) Programmes. Knowledge: ILO Convention. Financial
Management. Human Resource Management. Recruitment and Selection.
Immigration Act, Employment Service Act. Compensation for occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act. PFMA. Public Service Act. Skills: Planning and
Organizing. Communication. Computer. Analytical. Presentation. People
Management. Interpersonal. Leadership. Networking. Report Writing.
Information management.
DUTIES : Manage work seekers registration within the province. Manage the provision
of employer services within the Province. Manage implementation of work
schemes for the purpose of enabling youth and other vulnerable work seekers
to enter employment, remain in employment or be self-employed. Provide
operational and technical support to Labour Centre for the effective delivery of
public employment services. Manage the implementation of Policies,
Standards Operation Procedures, Annual Performance Plans and work plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sherelda Kleinsmith Tel: 053 838 1517
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 5012, Kimberley, 8301 or
hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road Email: Jobs-
NCKIM@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to African female, Indian male and females,
White males.
POST 18/25 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/4
Re-advertisement candidates who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (all -inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Risk
Management/Internal Auditing/Accounting Science/Finance. Risk
Management certification will be an added advantage. 5 years’ functional
experience in risk or internal audit environment of which 3 years should be at
an ASD/ Junior Management level. Knowledge: ISO Standards. King Code on
Corporate Governance. Compensation Fund business strategies and goals.
Compensation Fund regulations, policies and procedures. Customer Service
principles (Batho Pele Principles). Extensive knowledge and understanding of
Treasury Audits. Corporate Governance guidelines and the development of
policies and strategies. Risk assessment. Risk management, audit practices
and compliance. DPSA Prescripts and guidelines. Framework for risk
governance. Risk management policies and procedures. Occupational Health
and Safety Act (OHS). COIDA. Legislative requirements: Public Finance
Management Act. Treasury Regulations. Skills: Risk sensing. Design of risk
controls. Risk advisory services. Monitoring and Evaluation. Policy
Conceptualization and Formulation. Data Analytics and Reporting. Digital
Acumen (Risk Management system). Key risk indicator management. Risk
incident Management. Facilitation and Presentation. Negotiation, Consensus
and Coalition Building. Financial Management and budgeting. Stakeholder
Development and Management. People management. Communication (written
and verbal). Planning, organizing and report writing
DUTIES : Manage risk management services within the Fund. Manage the execution of
risk assessments and profiling. Manage risk awareness, education and training
programmes. Management of resources in the sub- directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Nkabinde Cell: 076 229 2252
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to: Jobs-CF10@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with disability, Indians and Whites
POST 18/26 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION SECURITY REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/5
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Security Management/
Computer Science/ Policing/Risk Management. Private Security Industry
Regulatory Authority –Grade A. 5 years’ functional experience in the
Information Security discipline of which 2 years is supervisory experience.
24
Knowledge: Compensation Fund objectives and business functions.
Directorate or sub-directorate goals and performance requirements.
Compensation Fund Services. Knowledge of security investigation. Relevant
Fund policies, procedures and processes. Personnel security. Customer
Services (Batho Pele Principles). Risk Awareness. Physical security.
Legislative requirements: Minimum Information Security Standards.
Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). National Strategic Intelligence Act.
Criminal Procedures Act. Promotion of Access to Information Act. Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act. Protection of INFORMATION Act. Public Service
Act. Public Service Regulation Act. Public Finance Management Act.
Constitution of South Africa. Skills: Required Technical Proficiency. Business
Writing Skills. Fund IT Operating Systems. Data and records management.
Security Skills. Investigative Skills.
DUTIES : Manage compliance in the Fund in accordance to Minimum Information
Security Standard. Manage vetting and pre-screening of the Fund employees
and service providers. Manage information security awareness in the Fund.
Manage the classification of sensitive information. Management of sub
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AK Pillay Cell: 076 527 7197
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to: Jobs-CF10@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with disability, Indians and Whites
POST 18/27 : EMPLOYMENT SERVICES PRACTITIONER III REF NO:HR4/4/8/166
SALARY : R605 745 per annum,
CENTRE : Labour Centre Upington
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3)-year qualification in Social Science (Psychology, Industrial
Psychology)/ Public Administration/ Public Management/Business
Administration/ Business Management. Valid driver’s Licence. Four years
(Functional and Supervisory experience) functional experience in Public
Employment Services environment. Knowledge: Immigration Act. Employment
Service Act. Unemployment Insurance Act. Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act. ILO Conventions. Human Resources Management
Policies. Public Financial Management Policies. Public Services Act.
Departmental Internal Policies. National Development Plan. Skills: Planning
and organizing. Communication. Computer. Analytical. Presentation. reporting
writing. Negotiation. marketing Interpersonal. Leadership. Networking.
DUTIES : Coordinate and maintain the relationship within Employment Services
Stakeholder. Manage the provision of registration and referral of work seekers
for the department. Supervise the provisioning of technical advice and
administration services regarding PES legislation to the client. Provide
administrative support to PES Labour Centre. Monitor the implementation of
employment schemes, Labour Activation Programmes (LAP) projects and
Temporary Relief Schemes (TES) Manage all resources of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Kleinsmith, Tel: (053) 838 1707
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 5012, KIMBERLEY, 8301
OR hand deliver at Laboria House, c/o Pniel & Compound Street, Kimberley
For Attention: Human Resources Operations, Provincial Office Kimberley
Email: Jobs-NCUPI@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to African female, Coloured males, Indian
Males and females, White males.
POST 18/28 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR: CIVIL AND CONSUTRUCTION ENGINEERING
REF NO: HR 4/4/4/61
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Qonce Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQFL 6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQFL7) in Civil/Construction Engineering. Four (4) years functional
experience in Civil/Construction services. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge:
Departmental Policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service
Act and Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations, OHS Standards, OHS
Management System. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and organizing, Computer
literacy, Interpersonal, Problem solving, interviewing, Presentation, Research,
Project Management, Analytical, Innovative
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the development of Civil and Construction Policies and
ensure the implementation of OHS Strategy for the Department of Employment
25
and Labour in terms of OHS legislation, Conduct complex inspections for Civil
and Construction Engineering regularly as per OHS programme, Conduct
technical research on latest trends of Occupational Health and Safety in terms
of Civil and Construction Engineering Sector, Provide support for enforcement
action, including preparation of reports for legal proceedings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Mbande Tel: (043) 605 9223.
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: PO Box 260, King William’s Town,
5600 or hand deliver at No 34 Arthur Street, King William’s Town or email to
Jobs-ECKWT@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, Coloured Male, Coloured Female, Indian Males, Indian
Females, White Males, White Females and Persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
POST 18/29 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACCOUNTING REF NO HR4/4/4/04/12
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office Parktown
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6) / Undergraduate Bachelor/BCOM
Degree (NQF 7) in Accounting/ Financial Management/ Cost and Management
Accounting /Internal Audit. Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2) years at
supervisory level or as a Senior/ Admin Officer/ Practitioner and two (2) years
functional experience in the supply chain environment. Knowledge: Current
DPSA & National Treasury Financial Circulars, White Paper on transformation
Of Public Service, Public Service Regulations and relevant prescripts,
Departmental policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Labour
Relations and collective bargaining systems, Minimum Information Security
Standards, Extensive BAS knowledge, Basic knowledge of Persal, Knowledge
of the iRequest System to suppliers details, Treasury Instructions, Financial
Regulations, Delegation Authority, Budgeting, Transversal Financial System,
Treasury regulations, Knowledge of Intranet System, Knowledge of the
SAFETYWEB System. Skills: Administration and Financial Management,
Organisational Communication Effectiveness, Problem Analysis, Self-
Management, Budgeting and Financial Management, Customer Focus and
Responsiveness, Developing Others, Planning and Organising, Problem
Solving and Decision-Making, Project Management, Team Leadership, Impact
and Influence, Computer Literacy, Diversity Management, Networking and
Building Bonds and Managing Interpersonal Conflict.
DUTIES : Manage the process of financial accounting to ensure compliance with all
financial prescripts, PFMA, Treasury Regulations etc., Manage user access to
financial and personnel systems (BAS, Persal, Safety web etc.) Coordinate,
review and analyze the Provincial budget and utilisation of resources, Monitor
the management of revenue, petty cash and debt in the Province, Manage
expenditure in the Province and manage all resources of the Section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Takalo Tel: 011 853 0300
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Finance, Hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown,
Johannesburg Email: Jobs-GP20@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- priority will be given to African males, Coloured males, Indian males
and White males
POST 18/30 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE AND ASSURANCE AUDIT REF
NO: HR 5/1/2/3/6
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Internal
Audit/Accounting/ Cost and Management Accounting. Internal Audit
Technician-IAT as an added advantage. Professional Internal Auditor
Certification- PIA as an added advantage. Certified Internal Auditor – CIA as
an added advantage. Institute of Internal Auditors. 4 years’ functional
experience in compliance and assurance/financial audits/Operational
audits/regulatory audits of which 2 years in supervisory experience.
Knowledge: Compensation Fund policies, procedures and processes. Internal
audits standards. Internal Audit Charter. Compliance and assurance
processes. International Professional Practice Framework. Customer
Relationship Management. Fund Governance and Risk Management.
Budgeting and Financial Management. COIDA. Relevant stakeholders. Batho
Pele Principles. Legislative Requirements: Public Finance Management Act
26
(PFMA). National Treasury Regulations. Skills: Organizational Strategic
Planning and Management. Information technology. Accounting and finance.
Communication. Internal audit strategic planning management. Audit plan and
coordinating assurance efforts. Quality Assurance and Improvement program.
DUTIES : Provide inputs and implement the compliance and assurance audits strategies,
plans guidelines and methodology. Conduct compliance and assurance audits
assignments in accordance with the audit methodology. Provide progress on
compliance and assurance audits activities. Management of resources in the
sub- directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Kalomba Tel: 076 0100 201
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with disability, Indians and Whites
POST 18/32 : ASSITANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT DATA ANALYTICS REF NO:HR
5/1/2/3/7
Re-advertisement candidates who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (on NQF Level 6) in Computer
Science/Information Systems/Informatics/Internal Audit/Business Information
systems/Information Technology. Certificate in Data Science/Data Analytics will
be an added advantage. 4 years’ functional experience in ICT Audit or Data
Analysis environment. Knowledge: Financial Management. ICT Audits
Standards. Internal Audit Charter. COBIT (Control objectives for information
related technologies) framework. Data Analytics or Big Data Framework.
Continuous auditing knowledge in Data Governance and Data Quality.
Statistical knowledge. COIDA. Scripting in some language e.g SQL. Power BI/
related data analysis tool. Protection of Personal Information Act and General
Data Protection Regulation. Legislative Requirements: Public finance
Management Act (PFMA). National Treasury Regulation. Skills: Organizational
Strategic Planning and Management. Information technology management.
Communication. Structure Query Language. Internal audit strategic planning
and management. Audit plan and coordinating assurance efforts. Quality
Assurance and Improvement Program.
DUTIES : Identify appropriate data sources and data elements required to design and
develop data analysis routines. Facilitate internal audit data extraction and
transformation processes. Establish and maintain effective systems of internal
auditing data analysis and exploration. Create dashboards and / or reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Dikokoe Cell: 071 148 4046
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with disability, Indians and Whites
POST 18/32 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COID STATUTORY SERVICES REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/8 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in BCom
Law/ LLB Law Degree. Admission as an Attorney or Advocate will be an added
advantage. Valid driving licence. 4 years’ functional experience in
Legal/statutory services environment. Knowledge: Public service
transformation and management issues. Public Service Act. Ability to convert
policy into action. Treasury Regulation. Public Service Regulation and relevant
prescripts. Departmental policies and procedures. Accounting system and
Internal Control. Corporate Governance. Batho pele principles. Legislative
Requirements: Employment Equity Act. Basic Conditions of Employment Act.
Unemployment Insurance Act. Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Compensation for Occupational Injuries & Diseases Act. Labour Relation Act.
Employment Service Act. Skills: Administration and financial management.
Strong leadership, strategic decision-making abilities. Verbal and Written
communication. Good interpersonal relations. Ability to build high performance
teams. Computer literacy. Project management. Communication skills
DUTIES : Implement strategies to enforce compliance with COID legislation. Conduct
research on COID Legislation. Encourage and support cooperation of relevant
stakeholders e.g internal stakeholder and external stakeholder. Evaluate
27
provincial performance and provide technical support to the provinces.
Coordinate the development of policy and provide technical advice to the
relevant stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Maluleke, Cell: 063 642 6450
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to: Jobs-CF11@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with disability, Indians and Whites
POST 18/33 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PUBLICATIONS AND WEB DEVELOPER: REF
NO: HR4/4/3/3/2ASDPWD/UIF
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification in Communication / Public Relations / Computer
Science / Information Technology / Web Graphic Design / Multimedia at NQF
level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2)
years; must be functional experience in Publications and Web Development or
Web Administration environment and two years at a Supervisory level.
Knowledge: Government Communication Information System role. Labour
Relations Act (LRA). Public Financial Management Act (PFMA). Basic
Conditions of Employment Act (BCES). Employment Equity Act (EEA).
Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). Unemployment Insurance Contributions
Act (UICA). Skills: Branding and Management. Ability to work under pressure
and meet deadlines. Online marketing. Problem Solving. Web design. Planning
and Organising. Communication. Search Engine Optimization techniques.
Driving. Interpersonal. Creativity. Ability to work with HTML, JavaScript, PHP,
Net, database and Content Management Systems.
DUTIES : Coordinate gathering of information for the website. Facilitate the compilation
of content for the internal communication platforms. Facilitate the rendering of
UIF publications, audio visual material and photography. Facilitate the
rendering of graphic design, video and photographic services. Manage
resources (Human, Financial, Equipment/ Assets) in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Klaas-Josefu Tel: (012) 337 1564
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF28@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males and Females, White Males and Persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply
POST 18/34 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ESTABLISHMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/3/3/2ASDE/UIF
(3- Year Contract)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management, Industrial and
Organizational Psychology, Public Management at NQF Level 6 as recognized
by SAQA. Four (4) years’ experience, of which two (2) years must be functional
experience in establishment environment and two (2) years must be supervisor
experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of PERSAL Establishment and other HR
system. Knowledge on how to operate Excel. Knowledge of Human Resource
prescripts in Government. Skills: Financial Management. Report writing. Risk
Management. Project Management. Strategy Management. Diversity
Management. Policy Analysis and Development. Computer Literacy.
Communication. Quality Management. Research Methodology. Problem
Solving and Decision Making.
DUTIES : Conduct and facilitate the administration of PERSAL establishment within the
UIF. Validate the alignment of the PERSAL establishment according to the
functional structure. Draw up monthly report on PERSAL and update excel
database. Coordinate stakeholders’ engagement.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SS Pheeha Tel: (012) 337 1847
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF29@labour.gov.za,
POST 18/35 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: EMPLOYER REGISTRATION REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/9
Re-Advertisement candidates who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
28
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Business Management/
Business Administration/ Public Management/ Public Administration/
Production/ Operations Management. 2 year’s function experience in related
environment. Knowledge: Compensation Fund policies, procedures and
processes. Relevant stakeholders and customers. Customer Service (Batho
Pele Principles). Billing administration. COIDA. Public Service Act. Public
services Act (PSR). Protection of personal Information Act (POPIA). Legislative
Requirements: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). National Treasury
regulations. Skills: Technical proficiency. Communication (verbal and written).
Meeting planning, organization and facilitation. Data ad records management.
Telephone Skills and Etiquette. Problem solving and decision making.
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Facilitate employer registration process. Conduct the process of updating
master data. Approve captured employers banking details. Supervision of staff
in the Sub- directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Manugu, Cell: 067 419 2504
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to: Jobs-CF12@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with disability, Indians and Whites
POST 18/36 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: SECRETARIAT SERVICES REF NO:
HR 5/1/2/3/10
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public Administration/Office
Administration/Business Administration/Commercial Law/Public
Management/Administration Management: General. 2 years’ functional
experience in Secretariat Services/Administration environment. Knowledge:
Department of Labour and Compensation Fund objectives. Public Services,
policies and procedures. Batho pele Principles. Secretariat procedures and
processes. King 4 Report. Compensation Fund Policies. Legislative
Requirements: COIDA Act. Public Service Regulations. Public Service Act.
Promotion of Access to Information Act. LRA, EE Act, SDA & BCEA. PFMA.
POPI Act. Skills: Client orientation and customer focus. Good co-ordination
skills. Good Organizational and administrative skills. Good interpersonal and
stakeholder liaison skills. Decision making. Self-Management. Communication
(verbal and written). Report Writing. Minutes Writing. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Provide secretariat services to various Board committees. Provide support to
various committees meeting. Verify logistical arrangements for various
committees meeting. Management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Malapane, Cell: 063 773 9756
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to: Jobs-CF12@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with disability, Indians and Whites
POST 18/37 : SENIOR COID EMPLOYER AUDIT REF NO:HR 4/4/8/162
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office Northern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate Qualification (NQF 6) As Recognised by SAQA in Financial
Accounting/ BCOM Accounting/ Internal Auditing. A valid motor vehicle driving
license. Two (2) years’ experience in Compliance Management/ Auditing/
Accounting/ Inspection ad Enforcement Environment. Knowledge: Analysing &
interpreting Information (Data Analytics) Knowledge of relevant regulations.
Laws and Legislation. Financial Risk Management and Control. Departmental
Policies and Procedures. Batho Pele Principles. Compensation of
Occupational and Injury Disease Act (COIDA). Public Service Regulations.
OHS Act and Regulations Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Basic
Condition of Employment Act. Inspector Card. Inspector Appointment
Certificate. Skills: Facilitation, Analysing & Interpreting information (Data
Analytics). Employer Assessment and Auditing. Revision of Assessment.
People Management. Services Delivery Innovation. Stakeholder Development
& Relations. Programme/Project Planning & Management.
DUTIES : Conduct proactive audits in relation to COIDA. Conduct reactive audits in
relation to COIDA. Conduct Advocacy in relation to COIDA. Enforce
Compliance. Supervise the resources within the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sherelda Kleinsmith Tel: 053 838 1517
29
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 5012, Kimberley, 8301 or
hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road For Attention: Human
Resources Operations, Provincial Office Kimberley Email: Jobs-
NCKIM@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to Coloured Male, Indian male and females,
White males.
POST 18/38 : TEAM LEADER REF NO: HR4/4/4/60
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Qonce
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Labour Relations/ Labour Law/ LLB/ BCOM LAW. A Valid driver’s
licence. Two (2) years functional experience in Inspection and enforcement
services. Departmental policies and procedures, Employment Services Act,
Labour relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Occupational
Health and Safety Act, COIDA, SABS Codes, Unemployment Insurance Act,
UI Contribution Act, Employment Equity Act, Immigration Act, SKILLS
Facilitation, Planning, Organizing, Computer Literacy, Interpersonal, Conflict
handling, Negotiation, Problem Solving, Interviewing, Presentation, Innovative,
Analytical, Monitoring, Evaluation, Performance management, Communication
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with all labour legislations, namely: Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA). Plan and execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary including making
preparations for and appearing in Court as a State witness. Plan, allocate and
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspection regularly to monitor compliance with labour
legislation including compilation and consolidation of reports emanating from
such inspections. Conduct Advocacy Campaigns on all labour legislations
regularly. Manage the finalization of files of cases received and investigations
conducted by the Inspectors. Contribute at a management level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LB Mduduma Tel: 043 065 0634
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations: PO Box 260, King William’s Town,
5600 or hand deliver at No 34 Arthur Street, King William’s Town or email to
Jobs-KWT@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, Coloured Males, Coloured Females, Indian Males, Indian
Females, White Males, White Females and Persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
POST 18/39 : EMPLOYER SERVICES PRACTITIONER (ESP11) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Gqeberha-Ref No: HR4/4/1/107(X1Post)
Labour Centre: Randfontein-Ref No: HR4/4/4/04/03 (X1Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant qualification in Social Science (Psychology, Industrial
Psychology) Public Administration/Business Management/Public
Management, Valid driver’s licence. Two (2) Years functional experience in a
client-oriented environment. Knowledge: Employment Service Act,
Unemployment Insurance Act, Public Service Ac, Immigration Act, Skills
Development Act, Social Plan Guidelines, Human Resources Management,
Public Financial Management Act, ILO conversions related PES. Skills:
Planning and Organizing, Communication skills, Computer, Analytical,
Presentation, Interpersonal, Report writing, Networking, Negotiation,
Marketing.
DUTIES : Marketing PES Services to stakeholders to acquire opportunities and conduct
recruitment, selection, referral and placement of registered work seekers.
Process requests for International Cross Board Labour Migration and advise
on the availability of skills. Process applications for registration of Public
Employment Agency (PEA) and Temporary Employment Schemes (TES).
Supervise provision of registration and referral of work seekers for the
Department, Monitor the implementation of employment schemes, Labour
Activation programmes (LAP) projects and Temporary Relief-Schemes.
Supervise the administration of employer services at the labour centre.
30
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Sityana Tel: (041) 506 5000 (Gqeberha)
Mr B Tau Tel: 010 061 1507 (Randfontein)
APPLICATIONS : Acting Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X6045,
Gqeberha, 6000. Hand deliver at 116-134 Govan Mbeki Avenue, Central, VSN
Building, Gqeberha, 6000. Email at Jobs-ECPLZ@labour.gov.za. Note: African
Males, White Males, White Females. Coloured Males, Coloured Females,
Indian Males, Indian Females and People with Disabilities are encouraged to
apply (Gqeberha)
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Hand deliver at Fountain Plaza, 2
Main Reef Road. Email: Jobs-GP8@labour.gov.za Note: EE targets- priority
will be given to African males and White males. (Randfontein)
POST 18/40 : TEAM LEADER: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT SERVICES (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Springs Labour Centre- Ref No: HR4/4/4/04/13 (X1Post)
Temba Labour Centre -Ref No: HR 4/4/4/04/14 (X1Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year’s National Diploma (NQF6)/Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Labour Relations/Labour Law/LLB/BCOM Law. Two (2) year’s
functional experience in Inspection and Enforcement Services. A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge: Department policies and procedures, Employment
Services Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, COIDA, SABS Codes, Unemployment
Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act, Employment Equity Act, Immigration Act.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning, Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal,
Conflict handling, Negotiation, Problem solving, Interviewing, Presentation,
Innovative, Analytical, Monitoring, Performance Management,
Communication.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with some of labour legislation, namely, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA). Plan and execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary, including making
preparations for and appearing in Court as a State witness. Plan, allocate and
conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation including compilation and consolidation of reports emanating
from such inspections. Conduct Advocacy campaigns on Labour legislations
regularly. Manage the finalization of files of cases received and investigations
conducted by the Inspectors. Contribute at a management level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Nkutha Tel: 010 061 0370/0352 (Springs)
Ms G Malungana Tel: (012) 727 5300 /5301 (Temba)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Springs Labour Centre, hand deliver at Expo Building, 2nd
Floor, Cnr 7th Street and Park Avenue, Springs. Email: Jobs-
GP9@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Temba Labour Centre hand delivers at Shop 4, Cnr Harry
Gwalaand Jubilee Road Jubilee Mall, Hammanskraal. Email: Jobs-
GP24@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- priority will be given to African males and White males.
POST 18/41 : OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR: REF NO: HR 4/4/1/105
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF6)/ Undergraduate/ Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) qualification in Office Management/ Information Management and
Technology; Public Administration; Business Administration, Business
Management; Public Management. One (1) year functional experience in
Office administration/ Secretariat services. Knowledge: Departmental policies
and procedures, Planning and organising, Administrative procedures,
Interpersonal relations Skills: Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, Organizing,
Computer Literacy, Communication (verbal and written), Listening, Problem
solving, Project Management.
31
DUTIES : Provide a receptionist support to the Chief Directorate including diary
management for the Chief Director. Render secretariat service for the office of
the Chief Directorate. Assist in monitoring and maintaining the budget including
the supply chain for the Chief Directorate. Facilitate and coordinate all logical
and resource requirements of the Chief Directorate. Provide Management
Information and records management services in the Chief Directorate. Track
and monitor projects tasks within the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mbongwana Tel: 043 701 3128
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag 9005, East London. Hand
deliver at No. 03 Hill Street East London. Email: Jobs-EC2@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, White Males, White Females. Coloured Males, Coloured
Females, Indian Males, Indian Females and People with Disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
POST 18/42 : UI EMPLOYER AUDIT REF NO:HR 4/4/8/168
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office Northern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in Internal Audit/ Financial Accounting/ Cost
and Management Accounting/ Financial Information System/ B. Com
Accounting/ B. Compt Accounting/ B. Com Law/ LLB/ Financial Management.
A valid motor vehicle driving license. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and
Procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Act and Regulations, OHS
Act and Regulations, COIDA, UIA, PFMA, BCEA, NMWA, LRA, UI Contribution
Act, Employment Equity Act, Inspectors Code of Conduct. Skills: Facilitation,
Planning and Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem solving,
interviewing listening and observation, Communication Written and Verbal,
Innovative, Analytical, Research.
DUTIES : Conduct audits to determine compliance with UIA and UICA. Serve
enforcement notices on non-complying employers. Refer non -complying
employers for prosecution. Provide support in the implementation of Advocacy
Programs on the UIA and UIC Act.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sherelda Kleinsmith Tel: 053 838 1517
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 5012, Kimberley, 8301 or
hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road Email: Jobs-
NCKIM@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to Coloured Male, Indian male and females,
White males.
POST 18/43 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: DEBT MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR5/1/1/2/3/11
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Financial
Management/ Financial Accounting/ Cost and Management Accounting/
Auditing. 1-year functional experience in Income Management (debt collection)
environment. Knowledge: Compensation Fund, policies and procedure.
Understanding audits processes, principles and practices. Customer Services
principles (Batho Pele Principles). Understanding financial risk. Understanding
public sector revenue and receivable processes. Debt Collection internal
control. Promotion of Access to Information Act. COIDA. Legislative
Requirement: COIDA. Public Financial Management PFMA. National Treasury
regulation. Skills: Financial Accounts Management. Professional Accounting
Standards (GRAP/GAAP/IFRS). Digital Acumen (Financial Systems, Tools).
Accounts Receivable / Accountants Payable. Analyzing & interpreting
information. Information Processing. Data integrity and management.
Stakeholder Developing and Management. Assertiveness. Conflict
Management. Communication. Risk Management. Quality Assurance and
Improvement. Legal Collection (Cuts across debt management, third party).
DUTIES : Provide debt collection services for the Compensation Fund. Perform Financial
administration process on debt collections. Follow up on debtors’ accounts.
Supervision of staff
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Mulaudzi, Cell: 0782505396
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to: Jobs-CF12@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with disability, Indians and Whites
32
POST 18/44 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE REF NO: HR5/1/2/3/12
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Financial
Management/ Financial Accounting/ Cost and Management Accounting/
Auditing. 1 years’ functional experience in accounts receivable environment.
Knowledge: Compensation Fund business strategies, policies and procedures.
Audits processes, principles and practices. Customer Services principles
(Batho Pele Principles). Risk management processes. Financial compliance
and reporting. Public sector revenue and receivable processes. Accounts
Receivable internal control. Accounting standards. GRAP (Generally
Recognized Accounting Principles). COIDA. Legislative Requirements:
COIDA. PFMA. National Treasury regulations. Skills: Fraud identification. Data
Analytic & reporting. financial Accounts Management. Professional Accounting
Standards (GRAP/GAAP/IFRS). Digital Acumen (Financial Systems, Tools).
Accounts Receivable (Reconciliations & Reporting). Analyzing & interpreting
information. Information processing.
DUTIES : Perform accounts receivable reconciliations. Perform financial administration
process on accounts receivables. Prepare Accounts Receivable quarterly
disclosure. Supervision of Staff
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Mathibe Cell: 076 448 8006
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to: Jobs-CF12@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with disability, Indians and Whites
POST 18/45 : FINANCE ADMIN: OFFICER ESTATES: REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/13
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Financial
Management/ Financial Accounting/ Cost and Management accounting/
Auditing. 1-year functional experience in (liquidation/estate) claims
environment. Knowledge: Compensation Fund policies and procedures.
Understanding audits processes, principles and practices. Customer Services
principles (Batho Pele Principles). Understanding financial risk management.
Understanding of public sector revenue collection processes. Public service
regulation. Promotion of Access to information Act. Insolvency Act. COIDA.
Legislative Requirements: COID. Public Finance Management Act. Public
service Act. Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). PFMA. Treasury
Regulations. Promotion of Access to information Act. Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Constitution Act 108 of 1996 (amended).
Road Accident Fund (RAF). Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). General
knowledge of the Public Service Regulations. LRA, EE Act, SDA & BCEA.
Skills: Required Technical proficiency. Business National Treasury regulations.
Skills: Legal Collections. Financial Accounts Management. Professional
Accounts Standards (GRAP/GAAP/IFRS). Digital Acumen (Financial Systems,
Tools). Accounts Receivable/ Accounts Payable. analyzing & Interpreting
Information. Information Processing. Data Integrity and management.
Communication. Stakeholder Development and Management. Assertiveness.
Conflict Management & Risk Management. Quality Assurance and
Improvement. Coaching, Mentoring & Direction setting.
DUTIES : Receive and review the estate claims. Receive and arrange mail according to
revenue significance. Review the identified registered employer’s estate.
Supervision of Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Mulaudzi, Cell: 078 250 5396
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to: Jobs-CF12@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with disability, Indians and Whites
POST 18/46 : OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR: CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: HR
5/1/2/3/14
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year relevant qualification in Office/ Information Management/ Public/
Business Administration. One (1) year functional experience in office
administration/ secretariat services. Knowledge: Departmental policies and
procedures. Planning and organizing. Administration procedures. Batho Pele
33
Principles. Interpersonal relations. Legislative Requirement: None. Skills:
Facilitation. Interpersonal relationship. Communication both (verbal and
written). Computer. Telephone etiquette. Organizing. Decisions making.
Analytical. Project Management.
DUTIES : Provide receptionist support to the Chief/Directorate, including diary
management for the Chief/Director. Render a secretariat Service for the Office
of the Chief/Director. Assist in Monitoring and maintaining the budget including
the supply chain for the Chief/Directorate. Facilitate and coordinate all logistical
and resources requirements of the Chief/Directorate. Provide Management
Information and records management services in the Chief/Directorate. Track
and monitor projects tasks within the Chief/Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Mokoena Tel: 083 744 6233
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to: Jobs-CF12@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Coloureds, Indians Whites and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply
POST 18/47 : INSPECTOR (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Benoni Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/04/05(X1Post)
Carletonville Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/04/07(X1Post)
Johannesburg Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/04/04(X6 Posts)
Soweto Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/04/06(X1Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification in Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/ LLB.
Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Skills
Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act.
Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and Organizing (Own work), Computing
(Spread sheets, PowerPoint and word processing, Interpersonal skills,
Analytical, Verbal and written communication skills, Employment Equity Act.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations, Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary,
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation, Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation, Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Pindile Mati Tel No: (011) 744 9000 (Benoni)
Ms Nompilo Tali Tel: 018 280 0960 (Carletonville)
Mr Happy Ntsoko Tel: 082 563 3066 (Johannesburg)
Ms Jane Monoto Tel: 010 061 3025/3060 (Soweto)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director – Benoni Labour Centre, Hand deliver at 10 Woburn Avenue,
Woburn Heights, Benoni. Email: Jobs-GP-BEN/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director - Labour Centre: Carletonville Labour Centre, Hand deliver at
Cnr. Osmium and Amethyst Streets, Carletonville, Email: Jobs-GP-
CTV/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Johannesburg Labour Centre, Hand deliver at 56 Main
Street, Johannesburg Email: Jobs-GP-JHB/2@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director - Labour Centre: Soweto Labour Centre, Hand deliver at 2
Khumalo Road, A Hand deliver at Centre, Orlando West, Email: Jobs-GP-
SWT/3@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- priority will be given to African males and white males.
POST 18/48 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: PES (X14 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Alberton Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/09 (X1Post)
Carletonville Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/10 (X2 Posts)
Germiston Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/11 (X2 Posts)
Nigel Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/12 (X1 Post)
Randburg Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/13 (X1 Post)
Sebokeng Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/14 (X1 Post)
Soweto Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/15 (X1 Post)
Atteridgeville Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/16 (X1 Post)
Bronkhorstspruit Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/17 (X1 Post)
Ga-Rankuwa Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/18 (X1 Post)
Temba Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/19 (X1 Post)
34
Kemptonpark Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/20 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ National Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Departmental Policies,
Procedures and Guidelines, Labour Legislation and Regulations, Employment
Services Act, Public Service Act and Regulations, Batho Pele principles. Skills:
Computer Literacy, Communication, Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Listening,
Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Ability to interpret legislation.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work-seekers on ESSA. Render registration
services of work and learning opportunities on ESSA. Refer work seekers for
Employment Counselling services. Provide administrative support with the
placement of work seekers in work and learning opportunities. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mojapelo Tel No: (011) 861 6130 (Alberton)
Ms N Tali Tel No: (018) 788 3281 (Carletonville)
Ms S H Ceasar Tel No: (011) 345 6300 (Germiston)
Mr R Madonsela Tel No: (011) 814 7095 (Nigel)
Ms M Tyelbooi Tel No: (011) 781 8144 (Randburg)
Ms M Mamburu Tel No: (016) 981 0280 (Sebokeng)
Ms J Monoto Tel No: (011) 983 8700 (Soweto)
Ms N Khoza Tel No: (012) 373 4434 (Atteridgeville)
Ms M Mojapelo Tel No: (013) 932 0197 (Bronkhorstspruit)
Mr L P Ranwashe Tel No: (012) 700 0290 (Ga-Rankuwa)
Ms G Malungana Tel No: (012) 727 1364 (Temba)
Ms J Ralane Tel No: 010 061 1077 (Kemptonpark)
Ms M Mamburu Tel No: (016) 981 0280 (Vanderbijlpark)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director - Labour Centre: Alberton, Hand deliver at Mercedes Place, 89
Voortrekker Street, New Redruth, 1449, Email: Jobs-GP-ALB/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director - Labour Centre: Carletonville Labour Centre, Hand deliver at
Cnr. Osmium and Amethyst Streets, Carletonville, Email: Jobs-GP-
CTV/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Germiston, Hand deliver at 241 President
Street, Germiston, Email: Jobs-GP-GMT/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Nigel, Hand deliver at Corner 4th Ave and
Hendrick Verwoerd Street, SARS building, Nigel Email: Jobs-GP-
NGL/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Randburg, Hand deliver at Cnr Oak and Hill
Street Hillview Centre, Ground Floor Email: Jobs-GP-RDB/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Sebokeng, Hand deliver at Nashua Centre,
64 Eric Louw Street E-mail: Jobs-GP-SBK/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Soweto, Hand deliver at nd2 Khumalo Road,
A Centre, Orlando West E-mail: Jobs-GP-SWT/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Atteridgeville, Hand Deliver at Cnr WF Nkomo
Street and Kalafong Road E-mail: Jobs-GP-ATV/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Bronkhorstspruit Hand deliver at, Hand
deliver at 40 Botha street, Cilliers building E-mail: Jobs-GP-
BHS/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Ga-Rankuwa, Hand deliver at 8873
Setlalentoa Street, Ga-Rankuwa Zone 5 E-mail: Jobs-GP-
GRK/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Temba, Hand deliver at Shop no 4 Jubilee
Mall, Cnr Harry Gwalaand Jubilee road E-mail: Jobs-GP-TBA/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Kempton Park, Hand deliver at Trust Bank
Building, Ground floor, Cnr Voortrekker and Wolff Streets E-mail: Jobs-GP-
KMP/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Vanderbijlpark, Hand deliver at Nashua
Centre, 64 Eric Louw Street E-mail: Jobs-GP-VDB/1@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- priority will be given to African males and White males.
POST 18/49 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: IES (X14 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Alberton Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/22 (X1 Post)
Brakpan Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/23 (X1 Post)
Carletonville Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/24 (X1 Post)
Kemptonpark Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/25 (X1 Post)
Nigel Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/26 (X1 Post)
Randburg Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/27(X1 Post)
35
Sebokeng Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/28 (X1 Post)
Bronkhorstspruit Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/29 (X1 Post)
Ga-Rankuwa Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/30(X1 Post)
Roodepoort Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/31(X1 Post)
Soweto Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/32(X1 Post)
Vanderbijlpark Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/33(X1 Post)
Vereeniging Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/34(X1 Post)
Krugersdorp Labour Centre - Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/35(X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matriculation. Knowledge: All relevant Labour Legislations and
Regulations, Related ILO conventions, Public Service Regulations, Public
Service Act, Knowledge of the Departmental Policies, Procedures and
Guidelines, Batho Pele principles. Skills: Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette,
Interviewing, Computer literacy, Communication, Ability to interpret legislation,
Problem solving.
DUTIES : Render services at help desk as the first point of entry within the Registration
Services. Resolve all complaints on IES labour legislations received from
Clients within the scope and dictates of the IES SOP. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mojapelo, Tel No: (011) 861 6130 (Alberton)
Mr P Mati Tel No: (011) 744 9000 (Brakpan)
Mr B P Mosoeu Tel No: (018) 788 3281 (Carletonville)
Ms P Ralane Tel No: (011) 975 9301 (Kemptonpark)
Mr R Madonsela Tel No: (011) 814 7095 (Nigel)
Ms M Tyelbooi Tel No: (011) 781 8144 (Randburg)
Ms M Mamburu Tel No: (016) 981 0280 (Sebokeng)
Ms M A Phasha Tel No: (013) 932 0197 (Bronkhorstspruit)
Mr L P Ranwashe Tel No: (011) (012) 700 0290 (Ga-Rankuwa)
Ms C Geldenhuys Tel No: 010 061 1532 (Roodepoort)
Ms J Monoto Tel No: (011) 983 8700 (Soweto)
Ms M Mamburu Tel No: (016) 981 0280 (Vanderbijlpark & Vereeniging)
Mr D McDonald, Tel No: 010 061 0427 (Krugersdorp)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director - Labour Centre: Alberton, Hand deliver at Mercedes Place, 89
Voortrekker Street, New Redruth, 1449 Email: Jobs-GP-ALB/2@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director - Labour Centre: Brakpan, hand deliver at Expo Building, 2nd
Floor, Cnr 7th Street and Park Avenue, Springs Email: Jobs-GP-
BRK/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director - Labour Centre: Carletonville, Hand deliver at Cnr. Osmium
and Amethyst Streets, Carletonville Email: Jobs-GP-CTV/2@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Kempton Park, Hand deliver at Trust Bank
Building, Ground floor, Cnr Voortrekker and Wolff Streets. Email: Jobs-GP-
KMP/2@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Nigel, Hand deliver at Corner 4th Ave and
Hendrick Verwoerd Street, SARS building, Nigel. Email: Jobs-GP-
NGL/2@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Randburg, Hand deliver at Cnr Oak and Hill
Street Hillview Centre, Ground Floor Email: Jobs-GP-RDB/2@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Sebokeng, Hand deliver at Nashua Centre,
64 Eric Louw Street E-mail: Jobs-GP-SBK/3@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Bronkhorstspruit, Hand deliver at 40 Botha
street, Cilliers building E-mail: Jobs-GP-BHS/3@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Ga-Rankuwa, Hand deliver at 8873
Setlalentoa Street, Ga-Rankuwa Zone 5 E-mail: Jobs-GP-
GRK/2@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Roodepoort, Hand deliver at 125 Albertina
Sisulu Road, Technikon E-mail: Jobs-GP-RDP/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Soweto, Hand deliver at 2 Khumalo Road, A
Centre, Orlando West E-mail: Jobs-GP-SWT/2@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Vanderbijlpark, Hand deliver at Nashua
Centre, 64 Eric Louw Street E-mail: Jobs-GP-VDB/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Vereeniging, Hand deliver at Andasta
Building, 22 Merriman Avenue E-mail: Jobs-GP-VRG/1@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director – Labour Centre Krugersdorp, Hand deliver at Foley Street, 6
Factoria, Krugersdorp E-mail: Jobs-GP-KGD/1@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- priority will be given to African males and white males.
36
POST 18/50 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: UIF OPERATIONS REF NO:HR4/4/4/13
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : ULundi Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12; no experience required. Knowledge: Unemployment Insurance Act
and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act, Public Financial
Management Act (PFMA), Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA),
Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Department of Labour and UIF
Policies and Procedures, UIF’s Vision, Mission and Values, Customer Care
Principles, Departmental Policies, Procedures and Guidelines. Skills:
Interviewing, Communication (verbal and written), Listening, Computer
Literacy, Listening, Interpretation (ability to interpret UI Act and Contribution
Act), Conflict Management, Time Management, Customer Relations,
Analytical, Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, On job training (operations
system).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TJ Nkosi Tel No: (035) 879 8800
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: ULundi Labour Centre, P/Bag X56, ULundi 3838 Or hand
deliver at Unit A Wombe Street, ULundi. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-
KZN3@Labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- Preference will be given to Africans, Indians & White people living
with disability; Indian males and females, White males and females.
POST 18/51 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Soshanguve Labour Centre – Ref no: HR/4/4/4/04/08(X1 Post)
Johannesburg Labour Centre – Ref no: HR/4/4/4/04/09(X1 Post)
Pretoria Labour centre – Ref no: HR/4/4/4/04/10(X1 Post)
Randburg Labour centre – Ref no: HR/4/4/4/04/11(X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Batho Pele principles,
Departmental Policies and Procedures, Treasury Regulations. Skills: Verbal
and written communication, Interpersonal Relations, Problem Solving,
Computer Literacy, Analytical, Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : To render Supply Chain Management Function in a Labour Centre. Provide a
Finance and office management service to the Labour Centre. Render a
Human Resource Management. Responsible for training and performance
activities in a Labour Centre. Responsible for the records management in a
Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Nengwekhulu Tel: 012 065 5030 (Soshanguve)
Mr H Ntsoko Tel: 082 563 3066 (Johannesburg)
Mr M Zigana Tel: 011 853 0300 (Pretoria)
Ms M Tyelbooi Tel: 011 781 8144 (Randburg)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Soshanguve, Hand deliver at 2322
Block F, Neat and Fast Building, Soshanguve, Email: Jobs-GP-
SHG/2@labour.gov.za
DeputyDirector: Labour Centre Operations: Johannesburg, Hand deliver at 56
Main Street, Johannesburg, Email: Jobs-GP-JHB/3@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Randburg, Hand deliver at Cnr.
Oak and Hill Street, Hillview centre, Groundfloor, Randburg, Email: Jobs-
GP4@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Pretoria, Hand deliver at 239 Nana
Sita and Thabo Sehume Streets, Pretoria, Email: Jobs-GP-
PTA/2@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- priority will be given to African males, Indian males, and White
males.
POST 18/52 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: SUPPORT SERVICES IES REF NO:
HR/4/4/4/04/15
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Administrative
procedures relating to an office, Filing and retrieval of documents, Ability to
37
operate fax machine and a photocopier, data capturing. Skills: Planning and
organizing, Communication, Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Render administration support services to the Directorate, Control the
movement of documents and files in the Directorate, Provide Supply Chain
Management support in the Directorate, Render Human Resource Services
support for the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Ntsoko Tel: 082 563 3066
APPLICATIONS : DeputyDirector: Labour Centre Operations: Johannesburg, Hand deliver at 56
Main Street, Johannesburg, Email: Jobs-GP-JHB/4@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE target- priority will be given to African males, Indian males, and White
males.
POST 18/53 : ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: HR4/4/1/106 (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with passed Commercial Subjects (Business Management,
Economics and Accounting) or with equivalent certificate. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures, Batho Pele principles, financial
prescripts and manuals, Public Finance Management ACT (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations. Skills: Communication skills, Problem Solving skill, Planning and
organising skills, Computer literacy, Accounting, Analysis. DUTIES: Compile
and capture all financial transactions for the whole Province on financial
transversal system (e.g. BAS, LOGIS, PERSAL and safety-net). Render proper
record keeping of for future reference. Provide support in monitor budget
processes for the Province. Administer Petty cash adherence to petty cash
guideline. Clear suspense accounts and unallocated accounts before month
closure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MM Nohesi Tel: (043) 701 3029
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X 9005 East London, 5201.
Hand deliver at No.3 Hill Street East London. Email: Jobs-EC2@labour.gov.za.
NOTE : Coloured Males, Indian Females, White Males, African Males, Coloured
Females, Indian Males, White Females and People with Disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
POST 18/54 : ADMIN CLERK: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: HR 5/1/2/3/15
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) as recognized by SAQA. No experience. Knowledge:
Regulatory knowledge, Law and Legislation. Data capturing. Collecting
statistics. Compensation Fund business processes, procedure. Policies.
Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles). Technical knowledge. Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Promotion Access to Administrative Justice.
Legislative Requirements: Legislation and Law Enforcement. Council policy.
Skills: Computer Literacy. Interpersonal Relations. Communication (written &
verbal).
DUTIES : Register objections, applications for Section 56, litigations, contracts, section
42 examinations and legal opinion. Administer court rolls. Make logistical
arrangements for hearing. Prepare payments for tribunal members, section 42
examinations and bill of costs. Attend to legal services enquiries and
consultations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Bugqwangu, Cell: 060 989 8311
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to: Jobs-CF13@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with disability, Indians and Whites
POST 18/55 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTICES
REF NO: HR4/4/3/3/1SACHRP/UIF (X6 POSTS)
(3 Year Contract)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. No experience required. Knowledge: Unemployment Insurance Act
and Regulations. Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA).
Protection of Personal Information Act (PPIA). Promotion of Access to
Information Act (PAIA). Persal and other Human Resource Information
Management Systems. Public Service Act (PSA). Public Service Regulations
38
(PSR). Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Employment Equity Act
(EEA). Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). White Paper on
Transformation. Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Communication (Verbal and
Written). Computer Literacy. Interpersonal. Time Management. Planning and
Organizing Responsive.
DUTIES : Provide clerical support to the recruitment and selection processes. Provide
personnel administration support services. Render general clerical support
services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SS Pheeha Tel: (012) 337 1847
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF30@labour.gov.za
POST 18/56 : SECURITY OFFICER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office stationed at Labour Centre: Pretoria Ref No: HR4/4/4/05/38
(X1 Post)
Provincial Office Parktown Ref No: HR/4/4/4/05/39 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate NQF4 Certificate plus Grade C
Security Certificate plus registered with the PSIRA. Knowledge: Access to
Public premises and vehicles Act, Evacuation procedures, Minimum
Information Security Standards, Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority
Procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Regulation Act and
Departmental Policies and Procedures. Skills: Verbal and written
communication, Interpersonal relations, Problem solving, Communication,
Conflict management, Coordination skills and Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Control access in and out of Labour Center or Provincial Office. Secure the
flow of information and assets within the Labour Center or Provincial Office.
Conduct security patrols of the buildings and offices to ensure safety of
employees and clients. Conduct internal investigations and enforce security
rules and regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Takalo Tel: (011) 853 0300.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2000 or
hand deliver at Department of Employment and Labour, 47 Empire Road,
Parktown. For online applications email: Jobs-GP4@labour.gov.za (Stationed
at Labour Centre: Pretoria) Jobs-GP7@labour.gov.za (Provincial Office
Parktown)
NOTE : African Males, Indian Males and White Males are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/57 : OFFICE AID REF NO: HR5/1/2/3/16(X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : ABET Level 4/ Grade 9 (NQF Level 4 & Level 3). No experience. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures. Labour Legislation. Public Service Act.
Basic Conditions of Employment Act). Legislative Requirements: Occupational
Health and Safety Regulations. Skills: Communication Skills. Time
Management. Interpersonal relations. Cleaning skills. Prioritizing skills.
DUTIES : Clean all areas of Compensation Fund. Remove all rubbish and put in
approved outside bins. Provide meetings support service (Food Service Aid).
Perform relevant general tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr KA Serepo Cell: 060 995 9541
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to: Jobs-CF14@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with disability, Indians and Whites
39
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria: Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-
delivered to: Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr
Soutpansberg and Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to
the respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject
email: EP09-2026@dffe.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a successful completion
of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National
School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment. The course is available at
the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can
be obtained by following the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. Furthermore, all shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Following the interview and the technical exercise, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. The person appointed to
this position will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of
performance agreement and employment contract. The Department reserves
the right not to make an appointment. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your
personal information which you provide to the DFFE to being processed by the
department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees, and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with the POPIA of
2013. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing
date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
OTHER POST
POST 18/58 : PROJECT COORDINATOR: ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMMES (MP) REF
NO: EP09/2026
SALARY : R413 001. per annum
40
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) or higher in Natural / Environmental or relevant
equivalent qualification recognised by SAQA. A minimum of two (2) years’
experience as Project Coordinator in a relevant Natural Resources
Management (NRM) field. Knowledge and Understanding of Project
management, knowledge and understanding of Alien vegetation control.
Knowledge and experience in General Administration, Administration field
(emails, internet, word processing, presentations, virtual meetings) Financial
Administration, Departmental procedures and prescript/policies. Ability to work
under pressure, Ability to work with difficult persons, Ability to work long hours
voluntarily, Honestly and reliably, Responsible and loyal. Ability to work with
limited supervision, oversee contracted EPWP field workers and ability to share
knowledge with project workers and stakeholders. Good interpersonal skills.
Coordination skills, reports writing skills, Human relations skills.
Communication and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Provide project planning support services: Develop a project operational plan /
determine APP targets for project, ensure a training plan is developed and
approved for project, Engage stakeholders in the project area and maintain
functional project advisory committee. Facilitate the implementation of the
project plans: Oversee recruitment of project field workers in line with relevant
EPWP guidelines, Ensure work opportunity and full time equivalents are
created through the non-infrastructure project, , ensure all task verification
requests for hectares of Alien vegetation to be cleared are completed in field,
ensure training interventions are monitored in the project. Monitoring of project:
Conduct sites visits/inspections, ensure operational assessment report are
completed, ensure project vehicle are compliant with norms and standards,
ensure incident reports are completed in line with OHS policy, ensure key
performance indicator reports are completed for project, monitor the project
cash flow, ensure OHS assessment report are completed. Render projects
close out services: Conduct interim and final site inspection in the project,
facilitate completion certificate for areas verified, compile close out reports.
ENQUIRIES : MB Mashabane Tel No: (066-489-3881)
41
ANNEXURE G
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE (GTAC)
The GTAC is an equal-opportunity employer and encourages applications from women and people with
disabilities. Our buildings are accessible to people with disabilities and reasonable accommodation is
provided for persons with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : Only online applications will be accepted. Applications not accompanied by a
comprehensive CV and a fully completed Z83 form will not be considered.
Please register, or if you are already registered, sign in and apply for this
position on the GTAC eRecruitment website
https://erecruitment.gtac.gov.za/erecruitment/
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 at 12h00 pm
NOTE : Only South African Citizens, and Permanent Residents need apply as per PSR
2016. Applications should be accompanied by a duly completed and signed
Z83 form (obtainable from any Public Service department). The post title and
reference number must be clearly indicated on the Z83 form. A recent
comprehensive CV and originally certified copies of qualifications and ID
should be submitted. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents will be required to be submitted to HR on or before the day of the
interview from shortlisted candidates. All short-listed candidates must make
themselves available for a panel interview on the date determined by the
GTAC. All short-listed candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks and the successful candidate will undergo security vetting in order to
confirm employment. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Late applications, and those not meeting the requirements, will not be
considered. If you have not received feedback from the GTAC within 1 month
of the closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
GTAC reserves the right to fill or not fill the advertised posts.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/59 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL SUPPORT REF NO: G06/2026
Term: Subject to assumption of duty date contract end 30 June 2027 (Fixed-
Term Contract)
SALARY : R1 101 468 - R1 297 476.per annum all-inclusive package (Level 12)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) in Local Government Finance or Municipal
Financial Management or related field. Specialisations in programme and/or
project management, technical support, research, publications and learning
materials productions will be an advantage. A minimum of 6 – 8 years’
experience in local government financial management or related field, at least
2 of which at management level. Experience in the public service is an added
advantage. Competencies Required: Concern for Quality and Order: Desire to
see things done logically, clearly and well, it takes various forms: monitoring
and checking work and information, insisting on the clarity of roles and duties,
setting up and maintaining information system. Integrity/ Honesty: Contributes
to maintaining the integrity of the organisation; displays high standards of
ethical conduct and understands the impact of violating these standards on an
organisation, self, and others; is trustworthy. Client Service Orientation: Client-
service orientation implies helping or serving others, to meet their needs. It
means focusing on discovering those needs, figuring out how to best meet
them as well as putting into practice the Batho Pele principle The term °clients"
refers to both internal and external clients. Team Participation: Works co-
operatively with others, working together as opposed to working separately or
competitively. Project Management: Knowledge of project management
principles, methods, or tools for appraising, conceptualising, structuring,
scheduling, coordinating, and managing projects and resources, including
monitoring, evaluating and reporting on project impact, costs, work, and
contractor performance. Computer Literacy: Knowledge and ability to use
computers and technology efficiently. Refers to the comfort level someone has
with using computer programs and other applications associated with
computers (MSOffice, Internet, email). Legislative Knowledge: Deep
42
knowledge of the Municipal Finance Management Act, Municipal Structures
Act, Municipal Systems Act, and Property Rates Act and related reforms and
Treasury regulations pertaining to public finance budgeting, revenue
management, asset management and supply chain management, and
constitutional provisions on support, interventions, and capacity building.
Government Knowledge: Knowledge of South African government systems
and processes, the local government legal framework and the role and
responsibilities of National and provincial government within that framework.
Financial Management: Knowledge and ability to apply financial management
practices, processes, controls and systems associated with budgeting and
expenditure management, revenue management, financial and chartered
accounting, supply chain management, asset management and financial risk
and audit management.
DUTIES : To support the MFIP technical support programme designed to holistically and
cooperatively address and build the institutional and technical capacity of
Municipalities, Provincial Treasuries and National Treasury to manage local
government financial affairs in compliance with the Constitution, MFMA and
other applicable legislation. MFIP Projects Establishment: Implement the
programme and performance objectives and indicators, ensuring alignment
with the local government financial management game changers. Develop the
terms of reference, formulation of the scope of work and specific objectives for
MFIP projects. Develop and implement methodologies and approaches for the
delivery of MFIP services. Facilitate and coordinate the identification of
procurement, contract and project management risks and development of risk
mitigation strategies for MFIP projects. Facilitate and coordinate the
procurement, contracting and placement/deployment of MFIP technical
advisors to the respective provincial treasuries. Assist with monitoring the
capturing and management of MFIP project agreements, contracts and related
documentation and data, ensuring that all electronic and hardcopy project files
are auditable at all times. MFIP Projects Implementation: Facilitate and
coordinate the development of MFIP technical advisor work plans and reporting
structures and monitor and address performance to ensure that specified
outputs are delivered. Facilitate and coordinate the processing, verification and
approval of technical advisor’s project reports and invoices. Efficiently and
effectively utilize the assigned MFIP project budgets and expenditure including
assisting with monitoring and reporting on budget risks and recommending
remedial strategies. Assist with ensuring the retention of financial information
as per prescripts. Assist with monitoring compliance to financial management
policies, processes and procedures. Assist with the resolution of financial
management enquiries, returns and reports, inclusive of AG communications.
Assist with the organisation and administration of logistics and arrangements
for assigned MFIP project meetings, travel and accommodation where
required. Facilitate and coordinate the quality assurance of assigned MFIP
projects and quality control of all aspects of technical work on assigned MFIP
projects. Prepare needs assessments and assist with the scheduling and
conducting capacity building sessions on municipal finance related practice
guides and circulars for technical advisors as requested. MFIP Projects
Monitoring & Evaluation and Close-out: Assist with the monitoring, evaluation
and reporting on assigned MFIP projects including: project status reports on
implementation progress (monthly, quarterly and annually). Project exception
reports, quarterly project overview reports, annual project status reports
including narrative on project progress, project budget reports. Facilitate and
coordinate the processing, quality assurance, uploading, filing and archiving of
project documents including: project plans and schedules, project progress
reports, project invoices and time sheets, project exception reports (summaries
and issues arising), project close-out reports. Assist with preparing and
supplying MFIP project information for National Treasury, GTAC, Parliament
and other public/private bodies as required from time to time. Report on the
performance and continuous improvement of MFIP services and service
delivery including: researching and benchmarking performance against best-
practices, evaluating performance against stakeholder and business needs,
researching and reporting latest trends, assist with providing inputs on the
updating legislative and regulatory frameworks, building network groups for
reference and benchmarking, and knowledge exchange and sharing. Facilitate
and coordinate the close-out of projects including the preparation and
submission of project close-out reports to enable closure of project budgets
and cost recoveries. Paper trail documents to enable project auditing. Project
43
governance and oversight reports. Project findings and learnings to enable
communication and publishing. MFIP Knowledge and Information
Management: Monitor and report on the implementation of and compliance to
MFIP project information and document management requirements including
the: information back-up and recovery plan. Filing system and business
continuity plan. Documents repository and website. Provide inputs, in
collaboration with the OAG, IGR, OCPO and Programme Steering Committee,
on the development of municipal finance related knowledge products. Provide
inputs to the co-development with NT of cross-cutting initiatives, tools and
systems for the strengthening of municipal finance management across the
sector. Assist with monitoring and ensuring the distribution of municipal finance
related knowledge products to project stakeholders, partners and technical
advisors. Attend Treasury workshops to ensure that programme inputs are
presented on the update of relevant legislative and regulatory frameworks.
Facilitate and coordinate the development, implementation and maintenance
of municipal financial information databases for assigned projects. MFIP
Project Stakeholder and Client Relationships and Advice: Support the
establishment and maintenance of stakeholder and client relationships and
provision of technical advice and support as required. Assist with engagements
with stakeholders, clients and industry role-players and provide inputs on
municipal finance management policy and practices as required. Prepare
formal and ad hoc technical information for stakeholders and institutions
throughput the MFIP project cycle. MFIP Programme Management: Assist with
providing inputs on the MFIP strategic planning, operational planning and
performance reporting documents. Assist with providing inputs on the MFIP
budget, and assist with the preparation, monitoring, record keeping and
reporting on the programme budget and expenditure. MFIP programme
management: Assist with providing advice and inputs on the establishment and
maintenance of the MFIP programme management framework and internal
controls including policies and procedures, business processes and systems,
guidelines and templates. Provide support during programme audits, including
the preparation and availability of documentation and information, and assist
with the implementation of corrective measures with regard to audit findings.
MFIP programme management: Assist with providing inputs on the MFIP
strategic planning, operational planning and performance reporting
documents, Assist with providing inputs on the MFIP budget, and assist with
the preparation, monitoring, record keeping and reporting on the programme
budget and expenditure, Assist with providing advice and inputs on the
establishment and maintenance of the MFIP programme management
framework and internal controls including: policies and procedures, business
processes and systems, guidelines and templates. Provide support during
programme audits, including the preparation and availability of documentation
and information, and assist with the implementation of corrective measures
with regard to audit findings.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at Tel No: 066 2507072 Email:
Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
POST 18/60 : TEAM ASSISTANT: MUNICIPAL FINANCE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMME
REF NO: G07/2026
Term: Subject to assumption of duty date contract end 30 June 2027 (Fixed-
Term Contract)
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277.per annum plus 37% in lieu of benefits (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant 3-year National Diploma (NQF 6) qualification in Secretarial and/ or
Office Administration or related field. A minimum of 2 - 3 years’ experience in
an administrative support role. Public service experience will be added as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Diary and meetings administration: Administer appointments and meetings
schedules including: Setting-up and confirming meetings, updating diaries of
Directors, notifying relevant staff members of daily meetings schedule.
Administer meeting arrangements including: Confirming meeting
arrangements including meeting rooms, parking, presentation aids, and
catering and refreshments where required. Preparing, distributing and
processing meeting invitations, directions and agendas. Assisting with the
compiling and distribution of meeting packs. Arranging security and transport
for delegates from other government and international institutions. Administer
44
meeting minutes including: Taking, typing up and distributing minutes, following
up on decisions arising from meeting, filing and archiving meeting minutes,
notes, agenda, and documents. Documents and reports assistance and
administration: Administer all electronic and hard copy documents such as
correspondence, memo’s, agreements, and reports including: Acknowledging
receipt of incoming document, noting priority, and tracking required response
and/or handling, following up on deadlines for documents for submission.
Assist with the preparation and finalisation of documents including: Taking
and/or transcribing dictation and notes and/or sourcing, obtaining and/or
downloading documents as requested (from internet and/or other sources),
laying-out and typing up documents and compiling presentations, proof-
reading and quality control of documents, effecting necessary changes as
requested and finalising documents, noting the distribution, confidentiality and
indexing requirements. Produce and distribute documents including, and as
required: Printing / copying, packaging and faxing / delivering / couriering /
posting of hard copies, creating email distribution lists and sending electronic
copies. Manage the physical and electronic document tracking and filing
systems including: Indexing, filing, and archiving of documents, conducting
electronic data clean-ups and back-ups, handling and document with utmost
discretion. Client, staff and project teams support: Receive and assist external
and internal visitors and staff. Assist with the resolution of client and staff
requests and queries. Work with and /or as part of the technical project teams
when needed to provide administrative and secretarial support. Assist Director
and/or project manager(s) with the coordination and administration of tasks of
relevant projects. Telephonic communications administration: Facilitate and
administer telephonic communication including answering, screening
processing of incoming calls, and placing, connecting and record-keeping of
outgoing calls. Develop and maintain the MFIP contacts directory. Coordinate
telephone accounts for Directors and submit to the relevant parties on a
monthly basis. Office administration: Organise and maintain own and common
business unit areas. Process, order and monitor office resource and stationery
requests and needs receipt and distribution. Monitor, report and ensure
equipment and furniture maintenance, cleaning and repairs. Travel
arrangements and claims administration: Administer local (and international
travel arrangements) including booking and ensuring receipt of flight, transport
and/or car hire, and accommodation documents and/or reference numbers.
Assist with the preparation of travel packs including the itinerary (contact
details, venue directions and transport), travel documents (ticket) and travel
support (accommodation details, meeting schedule, travel schedule). Follow-
up on and organise the preparation and submission of travel reports and
reconcile and organise the requisitioning and reimbursement of subsistence
and travel claims.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at Tel No: 066 2507072 Email:
Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za.
45
ANNEXURE H
NATIONAL DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intension to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General, National Department of Health, Private Bag X399,
Pretoria. 0001. Hand delivered application may be submitted at Reception
(Brown Application Box), Dr AB Xuma Building, 1112 Voortrekker Rd, Pretoria
Townlands 351-JR or should be forwarded to vacancies@Health.gov.za
quoting the reference number on the subject e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Shitiba
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements, and the
other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the
interview and technical exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment batteries. Applications should be submitted on the
new Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service department and should be
accompanied by a CV only (previous experience must be comprehensively
detailed). The Z83 must be fully completed (in line with DPSA Practice note),
failure to comply will automatically disqualify the applicant. Applicants are not
required to submit copies of qualification and other relevant documents on
application. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will
be requested prior to the final selection phase. Applications should be on one
PDF format (If emailed). Applications received after the closing date and those
that do not comply with the requirements will not be considered. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications and national certificates
(where applicable) evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to the
collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in accordance
with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will
be used solely for the purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with
third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The Department
reserves the right not to fill the posts. The successful candidate will be
subjected to personnel suitability checks and other vetting procedures.
Applicants are respectfully informed that correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If notification of an interview is not received within
three (3) months after the closing date, candidates may regard their application
as unsuccessful. The Department will not be liable where applicants use
incorrect/no reference number(s) on their applications.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/61 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (REF
NO: NDOH 42/2026)
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (An all-inclusive remuneration package) (basic salary
consists of 70% of total package, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employee’s Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion. The
flexible portion of the package can be structured according to Senior
Management Service Guidelines.
CENTRE : Branch: National Health Insurance. Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and An (NQF 8) in Health, Medical Sciences, Public
Health or Health Economics as recognized by SAQA. At least eight (8) years
Senior Management experience in economics or health economics or health
management/Science. Knowledge of and experience in Health Insurance
Policy development, evaluation and monitoring. In-depth knowledge and
understanding of health challenges in South Africa, as well as the SADC
region. Knowledge of the National Health Act and National Health Insurance.
Excellent communication skills (written and verbal). A creative and innovative
thinker. Good interpersonal skills. Willingness to travel frequently and work long
46
and irregular hours. Ability to function under pressure. Computer skills. Valid
driver’s license. The SMS pre-entry certificate is required for appointment
finalization.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership, policy direction, coordination, and oversight for
the implementation of the National Health Insurance system to achieve
universal health coverage, equitable access to quality health care services,
efficient health financing, and improved health outcomes for all citizens.
Oversee the design of user and service provider management. Oversee the
design of health care benefits and provider payment mechanisms services.
Oversee the centralized facilitation and coordination of functions related to the
public procurement of health-related products. Manage the provision of digital
health Information systems to the National Health Insurance Fund. Ensure the
development, management, and implementation of the strategy to reduce
fraud, corruption and maladministration and the investigation of fraud and
corruption for NHI.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Q Gambu at tel no: 012 395 8413
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026
47
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) seeks to hire patriotic, professional, passionate and talented
individuals to form part of a new leadership team, equipped with the right skills to facilitate the
transformation of Home Affairs into a digital-first, world-class organisation. If you are committed to
delivering on the Medium-Term Development Plan’s priorities through digital transformation, ascribe to
the Department’s shared value set, have what it takes to deliver on the needs of DHA Clients with the
highest levels of dignity, integrity and innovation, and your credentials meet the requirements of any of
the following positions, kindly respond before the closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 21 June 2026
NOTE : The DHA is a merit-based, equal opportunity and affirmative action employer.
In line with its commitment to promoting representivity, in the filling of entry-
level positions preference may be given to locally based candidates on grounds
of affordability as well as to (unemployed) youth and the DHA’s interns and
learners who have successfully completed their respective skills development
programmes. In the filling of all posts, preference may be afforded to persons
with disabilities, and in respect of SMS-level posts, to women. Persons falling
in these categories and who meet the post requirements are preferred. The
DHA complies with the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4
of 2013). Applicants’ personal information will be used for recruitment
purposes, retained where required for audit, and safeguarded against
unauthorised disclosure, except where legally required. Submission of an
application constitutes consent to such processing. Applications must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent to the correct address
specified at the bottom of the posts, on or before the closing date, accompanied
by a fully completed Application for Employment Form (New Z83, effective from
1 January 2021), obtainable at www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post
number and job title, and a comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date
dd/mm/yy), job title, duties performed and exit reason for each employment
period to be considered, as well as the details of at least two contactable
employment references (as recent as possible), regardless of online or manual
submission. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Shortlisted candidates will
also be required to submit a copy of their ID document, a valid driver’s license
(if specified as a job requirement), relevant educational qualifications / RPL
certificates / Academic Transcripts of completed qualifications, and Acting
letters as directed. Furthermore, applicants who possess (a) foreign
qualification(s), are required to submit the evaluated results of such
qualifications, as received from the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA); will be subjected to an interview, various relevant tests and
assessments, and employment suitability checks (credit, criminal, citizenship,
qualifications, and employment references including verification of exit
reasons, and conducting business with State). Once appointed, serving of a
prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a security clearance appropriate
to the post, will be required. Correspondence between the Department and
candidates will be limited to shortlisted candidates, Only.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/62 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BUSINESS PARTNERING (8 POSITIONS)
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Provincial Manager’s Office: Eastern Cape Ref No: HRMC 29/26/1a (1 Post)
: Provincial Manager’s Office: Free State Ref No: HRMC 29/26/1b (1 Post)
: Provincial Manager’s Office: Gauteng Ref No: HRMC 29/26/1c (1 Post)
: Provincial Manager’s Office: Limpopo Ref No: HRMC 29/26/1d (1 Post)
: Provincial Manager’s Office: Mpumalanga Ref No: HRMC 29/26/1e (1 Post)
: Provincial Manager’s Office: North West Ref No: HRMC 29/26/1f (1 Post)
: Provincial Manager’s Office: Northern Cape Ref No: HRMC 29/26/1g (1 Post)
: Provincial Manager’s Office: Western Cape Ref No: HRMC 29/26/1h (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management, Public
Administration, Public Management, Human Resource Development, Labour
Relations, Industrial or Organisational Psychology or Relations, Organisational
48
Development, Business Administration, Business Management, or a Social
Science qualification related to Human Resource Management or
Development at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. 3 years experience in
Junior Management / Assistant Director level in a Human Resources
Management or Human Resources Development environment is required.
Knowledge of Employee Relations. Awareness of Employee Wellness
practices. Knowledge of PERSAL. Knowledge of all relevant Departmental
Legislations and prescripts. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory
Framework. Knowledge of Human Resource Information Systems (HRIS).
Knowledge of Government Employee Pension Fund (GEPF). Knowledge of
Skills Development Act. Knowledge of DPSA guidelines. Excellent abilities and
experience in project management, project optimization, and the use of online
systems. A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Required skills and competencies: Project Management. Service
Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. People
management and empowerment. Decision Making. Financial Management.
Accountability. Business Continuity. Research and Learning. Policy formulation
and interpretation. Planning and Organising. Knowledge Management.
Influencing and Networking. Attention to detail. Process analysis and
improvement. Conflict resolution and management. Presentation Skills.
Interpersonal skills. Communication skills Strong Analytical skills. Computer
Literacy. Patriotism, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Coordinate and monitor staff mobility, conditions of
services and service benefits processes in the Province. Coordinate and
monitor the recruitment and selection process of the new employees (i.e
advertisement, selection and onboarding). Monitor the implementation of all
staff mobility (recruitment, temporary reassignments, secondments, transfers
and acting arrangement), as well as conditions of service and service benefits
processes. Coordinate, monitor and ensure consistent application of staff
mobility (recruitment, temporary re-assignments, secondments, transfers and
acting arrangements), conditions of service and service benefits regulatory
frameworks, policies and procedures. Coordinate and monitor conditions and
services i.e leave including temporary incapacity leave and termination of
services matters. Manage and ensure administration of service benefits, i.e
Housing, salary, and overtime application and payments processes.
Coordinate and monitor HR Management Information Systems in the Privince
i.e PERSAL, and HR Registry. Manage Performance Management, HR
Transformation and Culture Change processes in the Province. Coordinate the
implementation of employee relations, health and wellness matters in the
Provinces. Develop, coordinate and monitor the implementation of Human
Resource Development programmes in the Provinces. Develop and
implementation of policy and procedure, directive and regulations. Ensure
effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources
within the Unit Coach and guide staff on best practices and compliance with
regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Reddy, Tel No: (012) 406 6263 / 060 976 7508
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:-
Eastern Cape: Physical address: 11 Hargreaves Avenue, King William’s Town,
5600
Free State: Physical Address: 41 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein 9301
Gauteng: Physical Address: 3rd Floor, Mineralia Building, Cnr De Beer and De
Korte Street,
Limpopo: Physical Address: 89 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699
Mpumalanga: Physical Address: 29 Bester Street, Nelspruit, 1200
North West: Physical Address: Cnr Sheppard and Carrington Street,
Mafikeng, 2745
Northern Cape: Physical Address: Quantum Leap Building, 69 Du Toitspan
Road, Kimberley, 8300
Western Cape: Physical Address: 4th Floor Fair Cape Building, 56 Barrack
Street, Cape Town, 8000
POST 18/63 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS, REF NO: HRMC 29 /26/2
(This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply).
49
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (An all-inclusive salary package) (Level 11).
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane, Directorate: Employee Relations
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Employment Relations, Industrial Relations,
Industrial or Organisational Psychology, Labour Relations, Labour Law, Law,
Public Management, Public Administration or Human Resource Management
at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. 3 years experience in a Junior
Management / Assistant Director level in a Labour Relations environment is
required. Extensive experience in a Labour Relations environment is required.
Experience in management of collective agreement. Experience in resolving
disputes, mediating conflicts, and representing the employer in negotiations.
Collective Bargaining, CCMA and Labour court processes. Knowledge of the
Labour Relations Act. Knowledge of the Labour Relations Framework for the
Public Services. Knowledge of Public Service the Resolutions and all Collective
Agreements reached in the Bargaining Council. Knowledge of Basic
Conditions of Employment Act. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations.
Knowledge of Statutory Dispute Resolution structures. Knowledge of the Public
Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the South
African Constitution. Knowledge of Departmental Regulatory Framework, as
well as Government Structures. Knowledge of Human Resources legislation
and prescripts. Knowledge of Employment contracts. Excellent abilities and
experience in project management, project optimization, and the use of online
systems. A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Required skills and competencies: People management and
empowerment. Expenditure Management. Business Continuity. Excellent
Negotiation skills. Program and project management. Decision Making.
Presentation Skills. Business report writing. Problem Solving and Analysis.
Facilitation skills. Ability to meet deadlines. Influencing and Networking.
Planning and Organizing. Accountability. Communication skills. Interpersonal
skills. Research skills. Ability to work under severe pressure. Conflict and
dispute resolution. Service delivery innovation Stakeholder Relations (Internal
and External). Computer Literacy. Patriotism, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Coordinate misconduct and disciplinary processes in
the Department. Coordinate the development of effective strategies, solutions,
and tools for managing complex employee relations issues, policies, and case
management systems. Ensure the implementation of all arbitration awards as
well as labour courts judgements. Coordinate and advise on the resolution of
high-risk and sensitive employee relations matters, including workplace
investigations and conflict resolution. Coordinate and monitor employee
relations matters, including interpretation of policies, labour law, and best
practice. Provide expert advice on labour relations legislative framework
(related to misconduct). Represent the Department at disciplinary hearings,
arbitrations and labour relations Forum. (i.e. GPSSBC, PSCBC, CCMA Internal
Forums ect.). Coordinate the implementation of fair labour practices in
accordance with the Labour Relations Act and other relevant legislative
frameworks. Coordinate and monitor preparation of appeal documents for
referral to the Executive Authority and implement the appeals outcomes.
Coordinate and monitor misconduct, disciplinary, information sessions and
workshops. Coordinate and monitor labour disputes in collaboration with legal
services on litigation related cases as and when required. Work closely with
the Director on internal procedures and external interventions with third parties
on dispute resolution matters. Build and maintain partnerships and constantly
liaise with internal and external stakeholders on labour-related matters
including recognised Trade Unions. Provide training and advocacy on labour
relations related matters in the Department. Evaluate the effectiveness and
impact of awareness raising and draft reports (weekly/ monthly and annual)
and submission regarding misconduct/ disciplinary, grievances and disputes
matters to relevant structures. Coordinate the resolution of grievances in the
Department. Coordinate collective bargaining programmes within the
Department. Build and sustain collaborative relationships within internal and
external stakeholders. Ensure the implementation of effective risk and
compliance management practice. Ensure effective and efficient management
of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide
staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms V Motshegoe, Tel No: 012 406 4252
50
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
hrrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 18/64 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: REVENUE MANAGEMENT, REF NO: HRMC 29/26/3
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (An all-inclusive salary package) (Level 11).
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane, Directorate: Revenue Management
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Financial Accounting, Finance Management,
or Economics at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’
experience in an Assistant Director / Junior Management level in a Revenue
Management environment is required. Knowledge of public security, Including
the Minimum Information Security Standards Act (MISS). Knowledge of the
Public Service Regulations Act. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management
Act. Knowledge of the South African Constitution, Understanding of
departmental legislation as well as Human Resources legislation and
prescripts. Knowledge of the National Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the
planning and budgeting process and related activities. Knowledge of the
Revenue Management Act. Knowledge of the Standard Chart of Accounts
(SCoA). A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel
and work extended hours. enquired skills and competencies: Strategic
capability and leadership. Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and
Customer Focus. Service delivery innovation. People Management and
Empowerment. Revenue management. Financial reporting. Knowledge
management. Change management. Programme and Project Management.
Decision Making. Communication skill. Knowledge management. Budget
planning and cost control. Business report writing. Influencing and networking.
Problem Solving and Analysis. Communication. Negotiation skills. Numerical
skills. Presentation skills. Planning and Organising skill. Interpersonal skill.
Document management skills. Excellent communication and stakeholder
engagement. Computer Literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Coordinate and monitor revenue collection in Local Offices and
Ports of Entries. Ensure the development and coordination of income and
revenue collection strategies. Manage and monitor processes related to the
reconciliation of revenues generated. Coordinate the identification of trends
and challenges in the Local Offices and Ports of Entries of revenue and income
collection. Oversee the constant updating of systems pertaining to outstanding
and settled fines from various Local Offices and Ports of Entries. Coordinate
trust account regarding Immigration Control Account related to Airline fines.
Ensure the coordination of annual revenue budget. Coordinate the
consolidation of the actual revenue reporting from Local Offices and Ports of
Entries. Maintain all departmental debtors including penalties and fines as
prescribed by the Immigration Services Act. Coordinate the implementation of
revenue statutory frameworks, processes and procedures in line with Treasury
Regulations and Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Ensure the
management of revenue collection monitoring and control. Provide advice on
revenue generated and alerting on special circumstances or concerns.
Coordinate revenue management processes and procedures in Local Offices
and Ports of Entry (POE). Develop and implementation of policy and
procedure, directive acts and regulations. Establish, maintain and ensure a
good working relationship with the department and relevant stakeholders.
Implement effective risk and compliance in line with the relevant legislative
prescripts. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Mnisi, Tel No: 012 406 4238
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
financerecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 18/65 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: AMENDMENTS AND RECTIFICATION, REF NO:
HRMC 29/26/4
SALARY : R605 742 - R713 535 per annum (A Basic Salary) (Level 10).
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane, Directorate: Amendments and Rectification
51
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management, Public
Management, Administration or Business Management, at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience as a Supervisor in
operations in a client or customer services environment is required.
Knowledge of the South African Citizenship Act, 1995. Extensive knowledge of
the South African Passport and Travel Documents Acts, 1994. Understanding
of the Immigration Act and Refugee Act. Knowledge of migration patterns and
population movement within South Africa. Understanding of the departmental
legislation and Human Resources prescripts, LRA, BCEA. Knowledge of the
South African Constitution and Public Service Regulations Act. Comprehensive
understanding of Legislation, Policies and Prescripts governing Public
Administration. Knowledge of Policy Development and Government Protocol.
A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work
extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership Execution. Strategic Planning and Strategic Management. Service
Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. People
Management and Empowerment. Financial Management. Honesty and
Integrity. Programme and Project Management. Change Management.
Communication. Knowledge Management. Problem Solving and Analysis.
Business Report Writing. Influencing and Networking. Planning and
Organising. Accountability. Data Analysis. Policy Analysis and Interpretation.
Process Analysis and Improvement. Corruption Measures and Principles.
Presentation skills. Interpersonal skill. Communication skill. Planning and
Organising skill. Computer literacy skill. Decision making skill. Patriotic,
Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Facilitate and oversee the processing of applications for the
amendment and rectification of personal particulars recorded on the NPR.
Ensure all amendment and rectification processes comply with legislative
prescripts, regulations, and DHA policies. Implement and monitor quality
assurance and verification controls to prevent errors, duplications, and irregular
amendments. Coordinate service delivery between front-office and back-office
environments to ensure timely and accurate finalisation of cases. Manage and
resolve complex, sensitive, or escalated amendment and rectification cases.
Oversee the utilisation of automated systems and digital platforms to support
data integrity and efficient processing. Maintain accurate records, dashboards,
and performance reports on amendment and rectification transactions.
Escalate all irregularities and suspected fraudulent activities to management
or Counter Corruption and Security in accordance with prescribed procedures.
Stakeholder Engagement and Intergovernmental Coordination. Policy
Development, Governance, and Operational Oversight. Risk Management,
Compliance, and Quality Assurance. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms R Masemola, Tel No: 012 406 4156
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 18/66 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS, REF NO: HRMC 29/26/5 (2
POSITIONS)
(This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply).
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (A basic salary) (Level 9)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane, Directorate: Employee Relations
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Employment Relations, Industrial Relations,
Industrial or Organisational Psychology, Labour Relations, Labour Law, Law,
Public Management, Public Administration or Human Resource Management
at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. 3 years’ experience as a Labour
Relations Officer / Practitioner is required. Experience in a labour relations
environment is required. Knowledge of the Labour Relations Act. Knowledge
of the Labour Relations Framework for the Public Services. Knowledge of
Public Service Resolutions and all Collective Agreements reached in the
Bargaining Council. Knowledge of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act.
Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of Statutory Dispute
Resolution structures. Knowledge of Investigation techniques and
52
methodology. Knowledge of the South African Constitution. Knowledge of
Departmental Regulatory Framework, as well as Government Structures.
Knowledge of Human Resources legislation and prescripts. A valid drivers’
license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours Required skills and
competencies: Negotiation skills. Program and project management. Decision
Making. Presentation Skills. Business report writing. Problem Solving and
Analysis. Facilitation skills. Ability to meet deadlines. Influencing and
Networking. Planning and Organizing. Accountability. Communication skills.
Interpersonal skills. Research skills. Ability to work under severe pressure.
Conflict and dispute resolution. Service delivery innovation Stakeholder
Relations. Patriotism, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Facilitate misconduct and disciplinary processes in the
Department. Facilitate and implement the development of effective strategies,
solutions, and tools for monitoring complex employee relations issues, policies,
and case management systems. Implement all arbitration awards as well as
labour courts judgements. Facilitate and advise on the resolution of high-risk
and sensitive employee relations matters, including workplace investigations
and conflict resolution. Facilitate and monitor employee relations matters,
including interpretation of policies, labour law, and best practice. Facilitate,
monitor discipline management performance and ensure compliance with
disciplinary codes. Provide expert advice on labour relations legislative
framework (related to misconduct). Represent the Department at disciplinary
hearings, arbitrations and labour relations Forum. (I.e. GPSSBC, PSCBC,
CCMA and Internal Forums ect.) when required. Facilitate the implementation
of fair labour practices in accordance with the Labour Relations Act and other
relevant legislative frameworks. Facilitate and monitor preparation of appeal
documents for referral to the Executive Authority and implement the appeals
outcomes. Facilitate and conduct misconduct, disciplinary, information
sessions and workshops. Facilitate and implement labour disputes in
collaboration with legal services on litigation related cases as and when
required. Work closely with the Deputy Director on internal procedures and
external interventions with third parties on dispute resolution matters. Build and
maintain partnerships and constantly liaise with internal and external
stakeholders on labour-related matters with recognised Trade Unions. Provide
training and advocacy on labour relations related matters in the Department.
Draft reports (weekly/ monthly and annual) and submission regarding
misconduct/ disciplinary, grievances and disputes matters to relevant
structures. Facilitate the resolution of grievances in the Department. Facilitate
collective bargaining programmes within the Department. Build and maintain
effectiveness relationship with internal and external stakeholders to enhance
service delivery. Ensure the implementation of effective risk and compliance
management practices. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best
practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Mnisi, Tel No: 012 406 4238
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
hrrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 18/67 : SENIOR FINGERPRINT EXPERT: POST RECEIPT AND PRE-
PROCESSING, REF NO: HRMC 29/26/6
SALARY : R413 001 - R 486 501 per annum (A basic salary) (Level 8).
CENTRE : Head Office: Brits Storage, Division: Preparations and Pre-Processing
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration, Public Management,
Operations or Business Management at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA.
Two (2) years’ experience in a Customer Service, Civic Services or a in depth
knowledge of Fingerprints. Drafting of 212 statements and court
representation. Basic Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of
the Departmental Legislation and Prescripts (Civic Services). Knowledge and
understanding of the verification process. Basic knowledge of the Human
Resource Regulatory Framework. Willingness to work extended hours
Required skills and competencies: Service delivery. Client and customer
relations. Analytical skills. Planning and Organising. Strong Customer focus.
Conflict Resolution. Problem Solving. Ability to think and act quickly. Problem
solving and analysis. Report Writing. Colour vision and hearing. Basic Ability to
53
understand and follow camera scripts. Physical strength to carry heavy
equipment and stamina. Report writing. Basic image editing skills.
Communication skills. Patriotism, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Supervise and implement the processing of all
processes and operational activities of the post receipt and pre-processing
within the unit. Ensure and implement the post receipt and pre-processing by
following the correct processes and procedure in the unit. Implement quality
assurance strategies on completion and dispatching of Identity documents.
Ensure the post receipt and pre-processing of the application according to
requirements. Ensure the post receipt and pre-processing of quality with regard
to the application. Liaise with Government Printing Works and other
stakeholders to ensure quality and timeous delivery of services. Ensure that
timely and compliant filing and/or disposal of undelivered, or incomplete
Identity Documents. Resolve technical or practical issues from employees and
escalate complex matters to the Supervisor. Supervise and implement post
receipt and pre-processing of application by following the right processes and
procedures. Maintain good relationships with clients and stakeholders.
Implement effective risk and compliance in line with the relevant practices.
Ensure the implementation of policies, procedures. Ensure effective and
efficient management of human, physical and financial resources within the
Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms R Masemola, Tel No: 012 406 4156
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 18/68 : CIVIC SERVICES CLERK: BIRTHS AND DEATHS, REF NO: HRMC 29/26/7
SALARY : R280 278 - R330 162 per annum (A Basic Salary) (Level 6).
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane, Sub- Directorate: Births and Deaths
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration, Public Management,
Operations or Business Management at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA.
One (1) Years’ relevant experience in in administrative, clerical or client service
environment is required. Knowledge of Births and Deaths Registration.
Knowledge and understanding of the Departmental Legislations and Prescripts
(Civic Services). Basic knowledge of Human Resource Regulatory Framework.
Basic knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Required skills and
competencies: Client Orientation and Customer Focus. People Management
and Empowerment. Records Management. Change management. Knowledge
management. Budget planning and cost control. Financial reporting.
Influencing and networking. Attention to detail. Business report writing. Conflict
resolution. Problem solving and analysis. Presentation skill. Interpersonal skill.
Communication skill. Planning and Organising skill. Decision making skill.
Negotiation skill. Computer literacy. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Administer the birth and death applications at the back office for
DHA Clients. Receive, capture, verify, and process birth and death applications
accurately and timeously in accordance with prescribed legislation, policies,
procedures, and service delivery standards. Verify the authenticity and
completeness of supporting documents to ensure data integrity, prevent fraud,
and comply with regulatory requirements. Capture, update, and maintain birth
and death records on the relevant DHA systems to ensure accurate, secure,
and up-to-date population records. Assist with the submission of requests for
documentation from stores through EDMS or manual requests. Administer the
implementation of back-office process steps for birth and death applications of
all DHA Clients. Liaise with Civics Front Office staff regarding status of
applications or feedback on processing of applications. Perform end of day
duties to ensure effective capturing of performance statistics where required
by management. Administer birth and death applications are implemented
within targeted turnaround times. Assist with the verification of Identity
Documents (ID) Numbers for birth and death certificates. Ensure that ID
numbers are allocated effectively to applications for Birth Registrations.
Timeously notify Local Offices to action printing of unabridged certificates and
update the system as required. Identify, report, and mitigate risks, irregularities,
54
and suspected fraudulent activities in line with DHA risk management and
compliance frameworks. Maintain good relationships with clients and
Stakeholders. Implement effective risk and compliance in line with the relevant
practices. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr S Tshabalala, Tel No: 012 406 4117
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:-Head Office, Hallmark Building: Physical
address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street, Pretoria, 0001
POST 18/69 : CIVICS SERVICES CLERK: DUPLICATES, REF NO: HRMC 29/26/8
SALARY : R280 278 - R330 162 per annum (Level 6). (A Basic Salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Brits Storage, Division: Duplicates
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management, Public
Management or Business Management, at NQF Level 6 as recognized by
SAQA. One (1) Years’ relevant experience in in administrative, clerical or client
service environment is required. Knowledge and understanding of the
Departmental Legislations and Prescripts. Basic knowledge of the Human
Resource Regulatory Framework. Basic knowledge of Public Service
Regulations. Required skills and competencies: Effective Organising.
Teamwork. Influencing and Networking. Attention to detail. Conflict Resolution.
Basic report writing. Time Management. Problem Solving skill. Communication
skill. Interpersonal skill. Anaytical skill. Computer and digital literacy skills.
Decision Making skills. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Provide the effective daily operation of the Duplicate in the unit.
Scrutinize and verify applications on track and trace for investigation of the
possible duplicate cases by following information on NPR on various functions.
Create files of newly identified duplicate cases and request all relevant
documents relates to the case from various Sections e.g Birth, Fingerprint,
marriage records. Scan the application on track and Trace for the deletion of
on ID number and issue the ID. Sort received documents according to the
relevant identity number. Position message on NPR to indicate that the case is
under attention. Verify the allocation of a new ID number in case of duplication
and share the ID number. Ensure that fingerprints as well as the photograph
on the application form match fingerprints/ photograph captured on HANIS and
or paper fingerprint records. Compare and investigate multiple ID numbers, two
or more people sharing the same ID numbers on the record register. Make
photocopies of the approved report, confirmation letter, application form, and
all relevant supporting documents. Compile a report and motivate on the
removal of duplicate ID numbers. Update the NPR message for tracking the
case and make a printout of the duplicate cases. Scan back to data for the
issuing of the identity document. Ensure that the renouncement letter is signed
by the applicant and is filed for the record purposes. Submit a typed letter to
the immediate Supervisor to verify the correctness and sign off. Make a
photocopy of the signed confirmation letter and attach it to the application with
a printout of the newly allocated ID number. Implement policies and procedures
in line with the approved Framework. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr S Tshabalala, Tel No: 012 406 4117
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:-Head Office, Hallmark Building: Physical
address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street, Pretoria, 0001
55
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
The Department of Human Settlements is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. It is our
intention to promote representativity (race, gender & disability). The candidature of persons whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be e-mailed to: jobs@dhs.gov.za (please attach your
application as one (1) document on the e-mail)
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 at 16h00
NOTE : Please note that your personal information will be collected for the purposes of
the recruitment process only. By populating the Z83 form you are consenting
to the processing of your personal information. It will be expected from the
selected candidates to be available for the interviews on a date, time and place
as determined by the Department of Human Settlements. Applicants must note
that further checks will be conducted once they are short-listed and that their
appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which include
security clearance, qualification verification and criminal records. If you apply
for more than one position in the Department, please submit separate
application forms for each post. Applications must be submitted on a new Z83
form, obtainable from the Department of Public Service and Administration’s
website or any Public Service department and must be accompanied by a
detailed CV. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of interview/s as directed by the Human
Resources representative. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
Failure to submit the required documents will result in your application not
being considered. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates
only. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Please note that the all-
inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the state’s
contribution to the Government Employee’s Fund and a flexible portion in terms
of applicable rules. As of 1st July 2006, all new appointments in the public
service must be part of the Government Employee Medical Scheme (GEMS)
to qualify for a Government Medical Subsidy. If you have not been contacted
within four (4) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. The Department of Human
Settlements reserves the right to cancel the filling/ not to fill a vacancy that was
advertised during any stage of the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/70 : PARTLIAMENT AND CABINET SUPPORT OFFICER REF NO:
DOHS/01/2026
Re-Advertisement. Candidates Who Previously Apply, Should Re-Apply.
SALARY : R932 292.per annum (Level 11) (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 or equivalent, Advanced Diploma/ Degree in Public
Administration/ Management or any other relevant qualification (NQF level 7
as recognized by SAQA). 3 – 5 years’ experience at entry level management
(Assistant Director/ Middle management level). Knowledge of Ministry
operations will be an added advantage. Computer Literacy as well as good
communication skills (both written and verbal) is essential. Proven
management competencies. Broad knowledge and understanding of the
functional areas covered by the Minister’s portfolio. Working knowledge of the
political and parliamentary process in South Africa. Proven Policy analysis and
development experience. In addition, applicants must have good planning,
resource management skills, be a team player, able to work under pressure
and be willing to travel.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for: Monitoring events in the
Parliament/ the legislature to identify matters that have a bearing on the
portfolio of the Minister. Monitor events in Cabinet/ Executive Council to identify
matters that have a bearing on the portfolio of the Minister. Render an efficient
and effective Parliament service. Co-ordinate and control movements between
56
the Pretoria and Cape Town Offices and Parliamentary sessions (where
applicable). Knowledge of the relevant Public Service and departmental
prescripts/ policies and other documents to ensure that the application thereof
is understood correctly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Manyama Tel No: (012) 444-9118
NOTE : Female candidates and People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/71 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND CO-ORDINATION OFFICER REF NO:
DOHS/02/2026
Re-Advertisement. Candidates Who Previously Apply, Should Re-Apply.
SALARY : R932 292.per annum (Level 11) (all-inclusive salary package).
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 or equivalent, Advanced Diploma/ Degree in Public
Administration/ Management or any other relevant qualification (NQF level 7
as recognized by SAQA). 3 – 5 years’ experience at entry level management
(Assistant Director / Middle management level). Knowledge of Ministry
operations will be an added advantage. Computer Literacy as well as good
communication skills (both written and verbal) is essential. Broad knowledge
and understanding of the functional areas covered by the Minister’s portfolio.
Working knowledge of the political and parliamentary process in South Africa.
Proven Policy analysis and development experience. In addition, applicants
must have good planning, resource management skills, be a team player, able
to work under pressure and be willing to travel.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for: Managing the administrative
and co-ordination activities within the office of the executive authority. Liaising
with internal and external role players with regard to matters relating to the
portfolio of the executive authority. Render a Cabinet/executive council support
service to the executive authority. Supervise employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Manyama (012) 444-9118
NOTE : Female candidates and People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
57
ANNEXURE K
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE
The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in terms of race, gender and disability within the
Department through the filling of posts.
APPLICATIONS : Independent Police Investigative Directorate) Hand deliver to Ground Floor
473 B Benstra Building, Stanza Bopape Street (Church Street), Arcadia,
Pretoria,0002. Recruitment23@ipid.gov.za (Please indicate the post name and
reference number on the subject line) when applying through e-mail. Attention:
Mr. N Nekhumbe (Tel: 021 399 0213)
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on applications but must submit Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Applications quoting the correct reference number must be submitted on
the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents . Received applications using the incorrect
application form (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for
employment form must be fully completed, signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. A recently updated, comprehensive CV as well
as a fully completed and initialled new signed Z83 (Section A, B, C & D are
compulsory and section E, F and G are not compulsory if CV it is attached).
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part-F must be answered. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification; it must be accompanied
by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) (only when shortlisted). All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will
be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by
the Department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection
panel will recommend candidates to attend competency assessment using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Furthermore, the
requirements for appointment at Senior Management Service level include the
successful completion of Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government. Applicants should indicate on
their CV’s that they have registered or they have completed the Pre-entry
Certificate, which can be accessed using the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme. No
appointment will take place without the successful completion of the pre-entry
certificate and submission of proof thereof. Applicants who do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will
not be considered. Due to the large number of applications, we envisage to
receive, applications will not be acknowledged, if you have not been contacted
within three (3) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. Therefore, only shortlisted candidate for the
post will be required to submit the documents on or before the date of the
interview. The successful candidate will have to undergo security vetting. His
/ her character should be beyond reproach. The appointment is subject to
security clearance, verification of qualifications and competency assessment
(criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and
employment verification). Applicants must declare any pending criminal,
disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against them. Should this
be uncovered during / after the interview took place, the application will not be
considered and in the unlikely event, that the person has been appointed such
appointment will be terminated. The successful candidate will be appointed
subject to positive results of the security vetting process. All applicants are
required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose
memberships of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with.
The successful candidates will be appointed on a probation period of 12
months and will be required to sign a performance agreement. The suitable
candidate will be selected with the intention of promoting representivity and
achieving affirmative action targets as contemplated in the Department’s
Employment Equity Plan. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate
reserves the right to fill or not fill the bellow-mentioned posts
58
OTHER POST
POST 18/72 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: Q9/2026/31
SALARY : R487197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : National Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant Qualification in financial management at NQF level 7. 3 years
relevant supervisory experience. Knowledge Requirements: Knowledge of the
IPID Act, Knowledge of the Public Service Act; Knowledge of the PFMA;
Knowledge of the Treasury Regulations; Knowledge on Internal Control;
systems such as PERSAL, LOGIS, ELS and BAS. Skills and Competencies:
Interpersonal Skills; Problem Solving skills; Verbal and written communication
skills, Computer literacy; Knowledge of budget processes; Innovative and
Flexible; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: collection and recording of revenue: Cashier, banking
service and electronic payments: Monitor and review the procedures for the
collection and safekeeping of all monies and compliance with the relevant
prescripts, monitor and review the receipt and collection monies to ensure that
it is in accordance with the appropriate tariffs and properly recorded, Oversee
that the banking of monies are done in accordance with the prescribed
processes, Oversee that bank reconciliations are performed and are correct,
Oversee the verification of the validity and allocation of payments received via
electronic transfers, Oversee the safeguarding of source document and face
value forms, Oversee the requisition of funds from in line with the approved
cashflow projections, Verify the replenishment of Petty cash, Compile the
consolidated Petty cash reconciliation reports for all Provincial Offices. Debt
management: Oversee the identification and accurate recording of debts owed
to the department, liaise with debtors in the most complex and problematic
cases to determine payback conditions and time span, Oversee the process of
obtaining the accounting officer’s approval for debt collection condition; Obtain
the accounting officers approval for debt payback conditions and time span on
the cases handled, Oversee the accurate allocation monies received.
Monitoring and reporting on revenue: Oversee and monitor income against
budget and review reconciliations, Oversee and undertake the develop of
corrective measures when required, Oversee and review disclosure notes on
revenue collection, Oversee and collate financial supporting information
supporting information for planning purposes, Ensure completeness and
accuracy of financial information. Expenditure management: goods and
services, oversee verification of source documents, Oversee the quality
assurance and verification of transactions on BAS/LOGIS. Ensure that
expenditure is in line with budget and item provisioning, Oversee the correct
capturing of banking details on the accounting system, oversee creditor
reconciliation (ensure that service providers are paid timely and correctly).
Transfers and subsidies: Oversee and reconcile payment requests with budget
provisions and the availability of funds, Oversee the process to ensure that the
relevant institution is eligible for a transfer payment/subsidy and that they
comply with the relevant financial legislative requirements, Authorise the
payment of transfers and subsidies processed on the accounting system.
Reporting: Ensure the safeguarding of all source documents, analyse the
suspense accounts and ensure that they are cleared before closure, analyze
the trail balance and ensure accuracy before closure, prepare necessary
reports to National Treasury on a monthly basis, prepare inputs to the Financial
Statements. Supervise employees to ensure an effective financial accounting
service. This would, inter alia, entail the following: General supervision of
employees, Allocate duties and do quality control of the work delivered by
supervisees, advice and lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of the
work, manage performance, conduct and discipline of supervisees, ensure that
all supervisees are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the
required standard efficiently and effectively, develop, implement and monitor
ENQURIES : Mr. S Ndaba (Tel: 012 399 0115)
59
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process, the
selection committee will recommend candidates for a generic management
competency assessment, as per the Department of public Service and
Administration (DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’
managerial competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false
or fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Did not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right no to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/73 : REGISTRAR OF DEEDS (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/28)
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14) (All-inclusive remuneration package) The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that
may be structured in accordance with the rules for the Senior Management
Services (SMS).
CENTRE : Kwazulu–Natal Deeds Registry: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a B Proc (NQF Level 7) / LLB (NQF Level 7) / B Uris (NQF Level
7) / Advance Diploma: Estate and Trust Administration or related equivalent
60
qualification (NQF Level 7) with Diploma in Deeds Registration Law and a
Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to
appointment. Minimum of 5 years’ experience as Senior Management level /
Deputy Registrar of Deeds in property conveyance. Job related knowledge:
Registration of deeds, Interpretation of Statute. Examination of Deeds,
Research and information analysis, Human Resources prescripts, Project
management principles and tools, Court procedures, Supply chain
management prescript and financial management. Job related skills: Computer
skills. Communication skills. Organising skills. Problem-solving skills.
Interpersonal skills. Report writing skills. Presentation skills. Policy analyses
and development. Good Judgement and assertive skills. Time management.
Analytical skills. Financial management skills. Project management.
Management of Resources. Negotiation. Influencing skills. Appropriate
courses in Management Practices. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage registration of deeds in accordance with relevant legislation. Manage
examination and register deeds in compliance with Deeds Registries Act of
1937 and Sectional Title Act of 1986 as well as common, statutory, and case
law and recognized practices and procedures and Chief Registrar of Deeds
directives. Ensure deeds are made available from lodgement for execution.
Expedite examination of deeds for rural development, land reform and RDP
housing in compliance with Deeds Registries Act of 1937 and Sectional Title
Act of 1986 as well common, statutory and case law and recognized practices
and procedures. Draft the Registrars circular and notice. Comment of Chief
Registrars circulars. Comment on bills and draft directives regarding land
registration and related matters. Manage the Deeds Trading Account, Human
Resource and Supply Chain Management. Ensure that creditors are paid within
prescribed timeframe. Manage collection of revenue. Manage the recruitment
and selection. Manage the performance management system of the office.
Draft and implement management action plan on audit findings. Manage
Supply Chain Processes. Monitor usage of Information Communication
Technology (ICT) systems. Manage labour relations matters. Manage
registration, capturing, archiving and delivery of deeds. Update the land
register. Archive deeds and documents. Deliver registered deeds and
documents. Provide deeds related information and copies to clients. Provide
deeds related information and copies to account holder clients. Approve
reports to court and advise the high court, law society and other local
institutions accordingly. Adjudicate on the registration cases where no
precedence exist and advice clients where difficulties are experienced with the
drafting and registration of deeds. Increase the office visibility through outreach
programs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Masilela Tel: (082) 785 6228, Ms MSM Magoele Tel: (076) 240 7343
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to:
Department of Land Reform and Rural Development. Office of the Chief
Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or
by email to Advert17@deeds.gov.za before the closing date as no late
applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Indian and Coloured
Females as well as Persons with Disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/74 : SENIOR RESTITUTION ADVISOR (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/47)
Directorate: Operational Management
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12) All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and an appropriate LLB or B Proc Degree (NQF Level 7) or any
related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 6 years extensive post-
qualification legal professional and advisory experience with 4 years
supervisory experience. Experience in conveyance and vetting of documents.
Post qualification experience in court litigation. Job related knowledge:
Knowledge of Restitution of Land Rights Act, 22 of 1994, Law and other
relevant acts and legislative prescripts. Specialised knowledge of
Constitutional Law. Law of Contracts. Knowledge of South African law, in
particular land reform laws. Knowledge of conveyance and vetting of
61
documents. Job related skills: Proven supervisory and management skills.
Ability to draft legal opinions and contracts. Negotiation, research and very
good drafting skills. Ability to think independently, analytically and innovatively.
Good problem-solving skills. Mediation and conflict resolution skills. Computer
literacy. Skills in court litigation. A valid driver’s licence. Preparedness to travel
and work irregular hours and under tremendous pressure.
DUTIES : Ensure legal compliance to the Restitution of Land Rights Act. Check research
reports e.g. Rule 3, Rule 5 and Non-compliance reports. Attend stakeholder’s
engagements after gazetting. Check representation by landowners and other
interested parties. Check response to the representations by landowners.
Check Gazette Notices. Check valuation analysis and offers to both claimants
and landowners. Check Section 42D. Attend to negotiations with the farmer /
landowner. Prepare response to the representation for the farmer / landowner.
Check first draft of Section 42E expropriation. Attend to service of the notice of
possible expropriation. Attend to receive and peruse the representations by
landowners in response to the notice of possible expropriation. Check second
draft of Section 42E expropriation. Attend to serve the final notice of
expropriation. Check claimant verification. Check Communal Property
Associations (CPA1) to CPA8 and CPA constitution. Check deed of trust. Liaise
with the landowners. Check financial compensation files for payment.
Participate in all meetings upon instructions to attend and provide legal
responses where required. Check legal monthly reports. Submit legal monitor
to National Office. Coordinate litigation support in the restitution branch. Draft
referrals. Draft memorandum requesting the Regional Land Claims
Commissioner (RLCC) to sign the notice of referral. Attend to make copies and
issue the notice of referral at court. Receive and peruse court papers filed
against the office e.g. notice of motions for interdicts, reviews, applications to
compel, Summons, and other court proceedings. Draft memorandum informing
National Office about the new matter and request instructions from the Chief
Land Claims Commissioner (CLCC). Draft letters of instruction to State
Attorney and request appointment of Counsel. Attend to supply the required
documents and any other information concerning the case. Facilitate the
signing of the replying documents e.g. opposing affidavits, answering affidavits.
Attend to draft report on the progress on cases to the CLCC regularly. Issue
notice of instruction to appoint State Attorney. Facilitate the process of legal
representation. Exchange of court document (pleadings). Attend courts
hearings. Attend pre-trials both telephonically and face to face. Serve referrals
and other court documents to interested parties. File the notice of referrals.
Facilitate the implementation of court orders. Attend consultations with State
Attorney and Advocates. Draft legal documents in respect of the Restitution
Act, regulations and policies of the commission. Draft legal documents for deed
of sale. Draft memorandum request signing of the sale agreement. Draft
correspondences to various stakeholders e.g. Attorneys, Companies,
Claimants e.t.c. Draft settlement agreement e.g. financial compensation and
transfer of state land. Draft memorandums requesting signing of settlement
agreements. Draft lease agreement. Draft caretakership agreement. Facilitate
adoption of CPA constitution. Facilitate the elections of the CPA. Draft legal
opinion and other legal documents. Transfer private and state land. Draft CPA
constitution, CPA1 - CPA8 documents required for the formation of CPAs.
Facilitate CPA workshops. Prepare financial compensation submission.
Manage transfer of properties and establishment of legal entities. Sign
agreements for both parties. Facilitate transfer of payments. Issue instruction
to conveyancers. Monitor the transfer regularly on the weekly basis and
inspection. Issue instruction to State Attorney for transfer and pay the balance.
Issue instruction to State Attorney inclusive of Section 42D. Request clearance
rates from municipality. Prepare memorandums for payment of rates. Acquire
proof of payment of rates. Obtain certificates from municipality. Monitor the
transfer process until the end and inform the claimants. Conduct research in
respect of special projects such as expropriations and legislation emanating
from land reform components. Liaise with Research Institutions for research
and data collection purposes. Analyse collected data, develop and provide
inputs towards the development of policies that will govern the special projects.
Consult case laws and other legislations for legal opinions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Zwane Tel: (012) 337 3777
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 524
Stanza Bopape and Steve Biko Street, Suncardia Building, 6th Floor, Arcadia,
0002 or by email to Post47@dlrrd.gov.za
62
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian, White Males and African, Coloured, Indian and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 18/75 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BUSINESS CONTINUITY (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/40)
Directorate: Compliance And Risk Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Internal Auditing / Risk Management /
Internal Communication Technology (ICT) (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent
qualification. Minimum of 3 years' working experience within business
continuity management environment at junior management. Job related
knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Broad Based Black
Economic Empowerment (BBBEE), Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act (PPPFA), Public Service Regulation, Business Continuity
Standards and Financial Management. Job related skills: Leadership skills.
Computer literacy. Management skills. Project management skills.
Communication (written and verbal) skills. A valid driver's licence and
willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Provide a central source of information and guidance on business continuity
management. Coordinate routine updates to the detailed information
supporting the basic procedures (i.e. contact lists, personnel assignments,
hardware and software specifications, network diagrams, vital record
management, inventory lists, offsite backup schedule, etc.). Administer
contracts and service level agreements with business continuity service
providers. Create and sustain a business continuity plan that will mitigate the
risk of significant business disruption to the organisation's mission critical
activities. Develop and review business continuity policy for the Department.
Coordinate the development of the business continuity plans and procedures.
Develop business continuity plans and maintain all critical locations, in
conjunction with the appropriate business and technical team leaders and
business continuity coordinators. Ensure that all technical components of the
business continuity plan are successfully tested at least annually and / or
whenever significant changes are made to these components. Encourage and
create awareness of business continuity management throughout the
Department. Ensure that all personnel with specific business continuity
responsibilities are adequately trained to fulfil their assigned responsibilities.
Ensure that all employees maintain their familiarity with relevant provisions of
the business continuity plan. Compile the annual business continuity
assessment plans for the Directorate in conjunction with line management.
Plan and coordinate at least one simulation exercise annually, involving all
critical business units. Document the results of all tests and exercises and
identify any recommended enhancements to the business continuity and
procedures. Manage the logistical arrangements for all meetings. Coordinate
payments of services providers. Control safekeeping of all equipment and
assets used for executive meetings and of the Directorate. Oversee the
execution of the annual plan and report the progress of the deliverables of the
plan to relevant committees. Provide on call support for any emergency, which
may require activation of all or part of the business continuity plan in the event
that activation is required, serving as liaison between the crisis management
teams and the business continuity teams.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Lubsi Tel: (012) 312 9787
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post40@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 18/76 : CONTROL SURVEY TECHNICIAN (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/45)
Directorate: Coordination Of State And Land Reform Surveys
SALARY : R573 552 per annum (Salary will be in accordance with the OSD requirements)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Survey or Cartography (NQF Level 6) or
63
related equivalent qualification. Compulsory registration with South African
Geomatics Council (SAGC) as a Survey Technician / Surveyor. Minimum of 6
years post qualification technical (survey / cartography) experience. Job
related knowledge: The Constitution. Good governance and Batho Pele
Principles. Labour and Employment Legislation. Public Service Regulations.
Public Financial Management Act. Land Survey Act. Spatial Data Infrastructure
Act. National Geomatics Information (NGI) standards and procedures.
Programme and project management. Survey, legal and operational
compliance. Survey operational communication. Process knowledge and skills.
Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile equipment operating skills. Survey
design and analysis knowledge. Research and development. Computer-aided
survey applications. Creating high performance culture. Technical consulting.
Survey and professional judgement. Job related skills: Strategic capability and
leadership skills. Problem solving and analysis skills. Decision-making skills.
Team leadership skills. Creativity. Financial management skills. Computer
focus and responsiveness. Communication (verbal and written) skills.
Computer skills. People management skills. Planning and organising skills.
Conflict management skills. Negotiation skills. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Survey design and analysis effectiveness. Perform final reviews and approvals
or audits on new survey applications according to set standards and design
principles or theory. Co-ordinate design efforts and integration across
disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current technology. Maintain
survey operational effectiveness. Manage the execution of maintenance
strategy through the provision of appropriate structures, systems and
resources. Set survey maintenance standards, specifications and service
levels according to organisational objectives. Monitor maintenance efficiencies
according to organisational goals to direct or redirect survey services. Provide
financial management service. To ensure the availability and management of
funds to meet the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) objectives
within the survey environment / services. Manage the operational survey
project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to
organisational needs and objectives. Manage the commercial added value of
the discipline-related programmes and projects. Facilitate the compilation of
innovation proposals to ensure validity and adherence to organisational
principles. Allocate, monitor, control expenditure according to budget to ensure
efficient cash flow management. Provide governance services. Allocate,
monitor and control resources. Compiles risk logs (databases) and manages
significant risk according to sound risk management practice and
organisational requirement. Provide technical consulting services for the
operation of survey related matters to minimise possible survey risks. Manages
and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g. short-term assignments and
secondments within and across operations, in support of individual
development plans, operational requirements and return on investment.
Continuously monitor the exchange and protection of information between
operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge management
according to departmental objectives. Render people management services.
Direct the development motivation and utilisation of human resources for the
discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of
survey services according to organisational needs and requirements. Manage
subordinates key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental
objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SM Maseko Tel: (012) 337 3655
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 524
Stanza Bopape and Steve Biko Street, Suncardia Building, 6th Floor, Arcadia,
0002 or by email to Post46@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian, White Males and Coloured, Indian,
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 18/77 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION (PMO) (REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/38)
Directorate: ICT Planning And Governance
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
certificate and a National Diploma in Information Technology / Computer
64
Science / Advanced Diploma in Project Management or related equivalent
qualification. Minimum of 3 years’ experience in planning and coordinating
projects. Job related knowledge: Project management (e.g. Microsoft Project),
Proficiency in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint) or equivalent tools.
Job related skills: Ability to administer and coordinate project. Ability to create
and maintain technical project plans and outcome. Understanding of project
management principles and methodologies (e.g. Project Management Body of
Knowledge (PMBOK), Projects in Controlled Environments (PRINCE2). Good
communication (verbal and written) skills. Report writing. Excellent
interpersonal skills / telephone manner. High level of interpersonal skills,
including active listening and understanding. Good Organisational skills and
ability to prioritise workloads. Work according to tight deadlines / service levels.
Follow-up and follow-through. Work under pressure, Teamwork, Meeting
deadlines, Proactive, Self-Motivated. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Compliance and Governance. Ensure adherence to departmental policies and
project governance standards. Maintain accurate records for audits and quality
assurance. Ensure that all project documents are stored in an approved
centralised environment for easy access and compliance. Project coordination.
Ensure the timely scheduling of meetings, workshops, and project activities.
Minutes are captured and reviewed and circulate. Maintain project calendars
and timelines. Ensure effective management of project documentation. Ensure
project documentation meets audit and quality assurance requirements. Assist
with obtaining sign-offs and approvals of completed deliverables.
Communication. Serve as the primary liaison between project teams and
stakeholders. Prepare and distribute meeting minutes, action items, and follow-
up communications. Report issues and bottlenecks promptly to the Project
Manager. Provide comprehensive and efficient logistical support to the Project
Manager. Consolidate progress reports and project tasks. Circulate progress
reports on behalf of Project Manager. Upload status reports on PMO repository.
Manage the project calendar. Ensure meetings are timeously scheduled.
Venues for meetings and workshops confirmed and communicated timeously.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Mohlala Tel: (012) 312 8733
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post38@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured
and Indian Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 18/78 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SYSTEM TESTING (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/39)
Directorate: ICT Solution Development
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
certificate and a National Diploma / Degree in Information Technology
(International Software Quality Institute (ISTQB) / Computer Science or related
equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years of working experience as a
System Developer or System tester. Job related knowledge: All technical areas
in the operation of corporate internet websites. Demonstrated expertise in
various web technologies e.g Java, JavaScript, HyperText Markup Language
(HTLM), Flex, Web servers and Web Editing tools for integrating web
application with databases. Job related skills: Teamwork and interpersonal
skills. Communication (verbal and written) skills. Presentation skills.
Management skills, business planning and development skills.
DUTIES : Write testing documents to ensure that the software meets business
requirements. Interface with Business Analyst / System Analyst / System
Developers. Determine which functionality to be tested, write testing
documents such as test strategy, plan, test cases and prioritse testing activities
before testing can take place. Prepare test data. Execute test cases. Log
defects during testing execution and User Acceptance Testing (UAT) sessions.
Track if all defects found are resolved. Carry out regression testing every time
when changes are made to the code to fix defects. Provide adequate report on
the completed testing. Update and report on known issues and follow-up on
the completion. Maintain configuration management documentation for the test
environment. Ensure that the testing environment is ready for the system
testing by communicating with relevant stakeholder. Introduce automation tools
for testing. Provide training to business to disseminate product knowledge.
65
Write training manuals. Train users of the system to be deployed. Guide and
perform UAT where required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Lekgau Tel: 082 419 5245
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post39@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 18/79 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FRAUD PREVENTION AND ETHICS
MANAGEMENT (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/42)
Directorate: Fraud Prevention And Ethics Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Internal Auditing / Risk Management /
Criminology or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years' experience
in fraud awareness and prevention management as well as ethics
management experience and interacting at operational and strategic level. Job
related knowledge: Corporate governance issues, Fraud Awareness and
Prevention Management, Knowledge of Ethics Management, Public service
environment, Public Financial Management Act and National Treasury
Regulations. Job related skills: Dynamic leadership. Good computer literacy in
Microsoft Office Suite. Proven project management skills. Excellent
communications (verbal and written) skills. Excellent facilitation and training
skills. Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines. A valid driver's
licence.
DUTIES : Gather information to analyse fraud trends, patterns and also identify hotspots
in the Department on an ongoing basis. Analyse the operational plans, audit
queries, management reports, labour relations reports, forensic investigation
reports, internal and external audit reports and any other report that will assist
in the trend analysis and fraud hotspots identification. Assist in drafting trends
and patterns analysis report on fraud and ethics in the Department. Conduct
fraud risk assessment workshops and update fraud risk register on risk
management software systems on an on-going basis and ensure effective
ethics management. Provide support in conducting research and
environmental analysis before assessment are conducted. Ensure that
environmental scanning of the branches and provinces which are assessed
including research on trends of fraud and ethics risks is conducted. Facilitate
the fraud risk assessment workshop where fraud risk is identified for provincial
and national offices throughout the Department. Probe officials to be able to
identify fraud risks and ensure action plans are aligned to the risk. Capture all
the fraud risk registers on the risk management software system and ensure
all the action plans which were provided manually are accurately captured.
Draft reports on the outcome of the assessments for review by the Deputy
Director. Conduct ethics risk assessments. Provide support to promote anti-
corruption by conducting fraud and ethics awareness workshops throughout
the Department as per fraud preventions policy and plan operational plan.
Analyse to relevant information to determine trends and patterns of crimes.
Design posters, newsletters, pamphlets and other publications with anti-fraud
and corruption message. Facilitate fraud and ethics awareness sessions
throughout the Department in collaboration with the Deputy Director. Conduct
follow-ups on implementation action plans. Review the progress as stated on
the follow up register and capture them on risk software system. Follow up on
non-implemented action plans. Draw reports from the risk management
software. Analyse the fraud risk register and make relevant charts. Provide
support to draft the reports to Risk Management Committee. Submit fraud risk
management information to other relevant stakeholders when necessary.
Facilitate in compliance of quarterly reports for Risk Management Committee.
Provide support in drafting fraud prevention and ethics management reports to
be presented in the Back Office meetings, Branch Management Meetings
(BBMs), Risk Management Committee (RMC) when necessary. Report
progress regarding the elimination of risks against the operation plans of the
Department. Provide support in developing the necessary templates to ensure
effective reporting on the risk mitigations by the Branches. Provide support in
performing an analysis on the losses or potential losses including incidents that
66
can negatively impact the Department. Ensure consistency with risk
management practices and reporting throughout the Department. Provide
assistance in risk report coordination and assist in any risk related information
required by Risk Management Committee. Provide financial disclosure support
to all designated employees. Provide support to all employees who are
disclosing their financial interest with their usernames and passwords. Ensure
that information disclosed by designated employees is verified for
completeness and accuracy. Process all outside remunerative work
applications. Process all remunerative work outside public services
applications and analyse whether the application falls within the requirements.
Provide support in drafting memorandum in conjunction with the Deputy
Director for the reviewing and signing of the Director. Receive all
correspondence and disseminate to the relevant applicants upon processing
of the application. Keep record of applications processed by the directorate for
reporting to the relevant structures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Hlaluku Tel: (012) 312 9803
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post42@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 18/80 : CONTROL NETWORK CONTROLLER (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/44)
Directorate: Maintenance And Cadastral Spatial Information Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Information Technology / Computer
Science (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years
supervisory experience in the Information Technology (IT) environment.
Experience with hardware and software. Experience with servers. Extensive
experience in IT technical support. Appropriate server and network
management experience. Job related knowledge: Technical aspects of
Information and Communications Technology goods and services. Information
Technology Acts and Policies. Risk management. Government systems and
structures. Government decision making processes. Programme setting
process. Understanding of the management information and formal reporting
system. Internal control and risk management. Project management principles
and tools. Job related skills: Planning skills. Organising skills. Financial skills.
Communication (written and verbal) skills. Managerial skills. Strong computer
skills. Project management. Interpersonal skills. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide Information and Communications Technology (ICT) desktop support
and cadastral spatial information services. Attend to Information Technology
(IT) hardware and software problems. Set up Information Technology
equipment and install all relevant software. Monitor and update Surveyor
General (SG) User Accounts. Monitor Surveyor General IT inventory. Monitor
the desktop support and Local Area Network to ensure smooth running of the
office. Monitor the Information System. Render IT security services, maintain
IT applications, networks and hardware. Ensure maintenance of hardware and
software for the office. Attend to Cadastral Spatial Information Software related
problems. Monitor and test backups as per the departments scheduled policy.
Ensure availability of ICT related systems including internet and email related
and liaise with the relevant stakeholders to resume services speedily. Report
unsuccessful backups to the backup administrator and perform manual
backups until the problem is resolved. Ensure that all computers antivirus is
updated. Ensure management of assets and provision of regular updates to all
users. Ensure safeguarding of assets within division by conducting regular
asset verification. Co-ordinate safe keeping of ICT related assets with the
offices and Shared Service Centres (SSC’s) asset management divisions and
make sure all necessary paperwork is filled in timeously. Provide server and
domain administration services. Ensure security of data through sound data
administration and backup procedure. Ensure availability of systems and
server processing and liaise with the National Office where there is a problem
accessing them. Ensure that users accounts that have left the department must
be disabled within a day and be deleted within 3 months of non-use. Ensure
that requests for new domain and e-mail accounts created within one day.
67
Create new user accounts on active directory and assign account to the correct
groups and organisational units. Monitor the servers and shared folders for
unwanted data. Monitor the space on the servers shared folders and request
administrators to increase capacity when required. Monitor servers and
network performance and report to the necessary administrators when poor
performance is experienced. Ensure that backup is running every friday and as
scheduled and then run it manual when there is a problem. Manage Information
Technology (IT) developments and monthly reports. Facilitate development
and training of interns and in-service trainees. Provide monthly production
reports. Ensure security of network on PC’s and servers daily. Ensure virus
protection regularly. Coordinate IT provided by SSC according to law. Co-
ordinate ICT related services between Office of the Chief Information Officer
(OCIO), external service providers and the National Geomatics Management
Services (NGMS) IT staff. Develop cadastral information operational plans.
Upgrade software according to policy. Develop cadastral spatial information
operational plans according to law.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SM Maseko Tel: (012) 337 3655
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 524
Stanza Bopape and Steve Biko Street, Suncardia Building, 6th Floor, Arcadia,
0002 or by email to Post44@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 18/81 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/41)
Directorate: Quality Assurance And Administration
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Kwazulu Natal (Pietermaritzburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Information Management / Information
Science / Records Management (NQF Level 6) or National Diploma in
Business Administration or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 2 years’
experience in restitution, records management environment, registry services.
Job related knowledge: Knowledge of statistical, registry and records
management. Knowledge of projects and process. Knowledge of government
legislation that governs National Archives and Records Service Act. Job related
skills: Time management skills. Planning and organising skills. Decision
making skills. Computer literacy. Analytical skills. Telephone etiquette.
Interpersonal and communication (verbal and written) skills. Ability to carry out
registry and records management activities. The ability to always work
efficiently and effectively. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop, administer and maintain restitution land claims database. Maintain
the implementation of file plan in the office. Check the quality of standardised
files. Compile the report of standardised files and inventory. Update inventory
of standardised files. Update inventory of approved Section 42D’s. Provide
land restitution claims related information. Compile spreadsheet on letters
complied for claimants. Give claimants accurate information regarding the
status of their claims. Respond to general enquiries about the lodgement of
land claims. Update statistical information for the office in all land claims lodged
and settled. Provide registry services. Receive and issue brown files not
scanned on Electronic Document Management System (EDMS). Receive and
register incoming files. Keep records of files and collected information for
existing land claims. Ensure that registry rules are adhered to by officials.
Monitor access to registry system. Monitor and control movement of files by
registering them on movement control sheet. Conduct file audit to ensure that
no files are kept for more than 5 days in officials office unless the official ask
for extension. Maintain office search. Ensure all files transferred to registry are
recorded from clients. File indexing. Spot check on file at registry / incident
audit. Maintaining filling system. Capture approved projects or files for easy
retrieval in registry and create file number for approved Section 42D, Section
42C and Section 42E. Check all Section 42D’s dispatched to and received from
national office if all documents are signed and returned same as was
dispatched. Update and provide land claims information to project teams to
enable the acceptance and gazetting of claims. Receive and register incoming
and approved files. Update the status of the claims on approved acceptance
research report, non-compliant, dismissed, deferred and gazetted claims.
Ensure that new information received from operational units is captured on
68
spreadsheet. Keep statistics of files captured on spreadsheet and report
monthly. Coordinate and execute other administrative duties. Provide clerical
support services to the directorate. Provide personnel administration clerical
support services. Provide financial administration services in the component.
Process documents for archival and disposal. Operate office machine in
relation to registry functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NP Mazibuko Tel: (033) 341 2679
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 1st Floor,
270 Jabu Ndlovu Street (formerly known as Loop Street), Pietermaritzburg,
3200 or by email to Post41@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 18/82 : SENIOR INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY (ICT)
SUPPORT OFFICER (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/43)
Directorate: ICT Service Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Computer Science / Information
Technology or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 2 years’ service
desk experience in Information Technology (IT) service support / delivery
environment supporting both hardware and software (1st level support). Sound
understanding of Microsoft Active Directory, Domain Name System (DNS),
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP), Applications, transversal
systems and Experience in a technical support environment. Job related
knowledge: Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) working
practice. Advanced competency and experience in personal computing
(Desktop, Laptops, printers, scanners). Working knowledge of Microsoft
Windows 7 / 10 / 11. Working knowledge of Microsoft Office 2010, 2016, and
office 365. Working knowledge of IT service desk systems e.g. Information
Technology Service Management (ITSM) Remedy, HEAT call logging system,
Service Desk Plus etc. Working knowledge of networks (Local Area Network
(LAN) / Wide Area Network (WAN) and network equipment i.e. switches. Job
related skills: Basic project management skills. User and client orientation.
Problem solving and decision-making skills. Time management skills. Broad
knowledge of IT products, services and terminology. Ability to communicate at
all levels. Ability to work across Organisational and professional boundaries.
Excellent communication (verbal and written) skills. Excellent telephone
manner. High level of interpersonal skills, including active listening and
understanding. Good organisational skills and ability to prioritise workloads.
Work according to tight deadlines, services and terminology. Follow-up and
follow-through.
DUTIES : Provide Information Technology (IT) 1st line support to all end users. Respond
to incoming calls, e-mails and calls logged on Information Technology Service
Management (ITSM) system regarding desktop computer, laptops, IPad and
cell phone problems. Maintain excellent verbal communication with the ability
to communicate effectively with technical and non-technical colleagues at all
levels in the organisation. Diagnose and resolve software and hardware
incidents, including operating systems across a range of software applications.
Assist all our users with any logged IT related incidents when called upon. Take
ownership of issues by carrying out problem analysis to implement temporary
or permanent fixes with the aim of restoring service to the customer as soon
as possible, escalating incidents to other support teams where necessary.
Accurately record, update and document requests using the IT services desk
system. Resolve incidents in accordance with the agreed processes daily, must
ensure the processes defined for the environment are complied with.
Troubleshoot hardware, software and network operating system. Install and
configure new IT equipment. Perform PC installations, software installation and
maintenance, security maintenance (devices and software), remote access
services, and installation of patches on manual basis. Develop and follow test
plans for compatibility testing for hardware and software analysis and
evaluation and assessment of computer equipment and if necessary,
formatting of such equipment with information. Support and ensure availability
of email services, internet services, application services on workstations and
availability of connection to transversal mainframe system. Resolve incidents
69
and upgrade different types of software and hardware (printers, copiers, and
scanners). Escalation incidents through automated escalation tool based on
service levels and manual escalation based on incident monitoring and tracking
activities. Perform fault resolution, incident resolution and analyse them for
prioritisation and trends. Proficient at analysing and documenting customer
request requirements and problem symptoms to make recommendations and
implement moves, add-ons, changes, and maintenance of desktop equipment.
Identify and correct or advise on operational issues in clients computer
systems. Ensure proactive detention of incidents through available tools i.e.
monitoring, events and alerts. Troubleshoot all technology issues. Maintain a
first-class level of customer service ensuring that all customers are treated
efficiently and in an appropriate manner. Maintain log and / or list of required
repairs and maintenance. Make recommendations about purchase of
technology resources. Research current and potential resources and services.
Ability to plan, organise and implement desktop solutions. Ability to oversee
workstation administration, as well as repair of faults and problems on
associated equipment. Pro-active monitoring and reporting of Local Area
Network (LAN) and hardware problems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Kanyane Tel: (012) 312 8700
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post43@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 18/83 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN (GRADE A-C) (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/45)
Directorate: Information Services
SALARY : R407 337 – R610 131 per annum (Salary will be in accordance with the OSD
requirements)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Survey or Cartography (NQF Level 6).
Compulsory registration with South African Geomatics Council (SAGC) as a
Survey Technician / Surveyor. Minimum of 3 years post qualification technical
survey experience. Job related knowledge: Programme and project
management. Survey design and analysis knowledge. Research and
development. Computer-aided survey applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture. Job
related skills: Decision-making skills. Team leadership skills. Analytical skills.
Creativity. Self-management skills. Financial management skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Communication (verbal and written) skills.
Computer literacy. Planning and organizing skills. Conflict management skills.
Problem solving and analysis skills. People management skills. Innovation
skills. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide technical survey services and support. Provide technical services in
terms of examination, maintenance, archiving and information supply of survey
documents and submit for evaluation / approval by the relevant authority.
Perform surveys and survey computations. Promote safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Evaluate plans, existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Provide
Geographic Information System (GIS), mapping and information supply
services. Perform administrative and related functions. Provide inputs into the
budgeting process as required. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical survey operational plan.
Develop, implement and maintain databases. Supervise and control Candidate
Survey Technicians / Officers and related personnel and assets. Conduct
research and development. Render continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research / literature studies
on technical survey technology or new survey techniques to improve expertise.
Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on survey related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SM Maseko Tel: (012) 337 3655
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 524
Stanza Bopape and Steve Biko Street, Suncardia Building, 6th Floor, Arcadia,
0002 or by email to Post45@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured and Indian Males and African, Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
70
ANNEXURE M
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
the office of the chief justice is an equal opportunity employer. in the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the constitution of South Africa, 1996, the employment equity
imperatives as defined by the employment equity act, 1998 (act55) of 1998) and the relevant human
resources policies of the department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
women, persons with disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Northern Cape: Kimberly: Quoting The Relevant Reference Number, Direct
Your Application To: The Provincial Head, Office Of The Chief Justice, Private
Bag X5043, Kimberley, 8300 Or Hand Deliver Applications To The Northern
Cape Division Of The High Court, Corner Sol Plaatjie Drive, Kimberly
Eastern Cape/Mthatha: Quoting The Relevant Reference Number, Direct
Your Application To: The Provincial Head, Office Of The Chief Justice, Postal
Address: Private Bag X13012, Cambridge 5206, East London. Applications
Can Also Be Hand Delivered To 59 Western Avenue, Sanlam Park Building,
2nd Floor, Vincent 5242, East London.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
NOTE : all applications must be submitted on a new z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet At Www.Judiciary.Org.Za /
Www.Dpsa.Gov.Za/Dpsa2g/Vacancies.Asp Or Obtainable From Any Public
service department and should be accompanied by a recent Comprehensive
CV Only; contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must
be indicated). please send your documents in a pdf and put them in one folder.
only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from human resources. all shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. one must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. all shortlisted candidates for SMS
posts will be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the department. following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. applicants could be required to provide consent for access
to their social media accounts. prior to appointment for SMS, a candidate would
be required to complete the nyukela programme: pre-entry certificate to senior
management services as endorsed by dpsa which is an online course,
endorsed by the national school of government (NSG). the course is available
at the NSG under the name certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details
can be sourced by the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. each application form must be fully
completed, duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant. the
application must indicate the correct job title, the office where the position is
advertised and the reference number as stated in the advert. failure by the
applicant to complete, sign and initial the application form will lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. applications on
the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. should you be in possession
of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation considered.
suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, financial checks, qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference
checks and employment verification). correspondence will be limited to short-
listed candidates only. if you have not been contacted within three (3) months
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. the department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). applicants who do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will
not be considered. failure to submit all the requested documents will result in
the application not being considered during the selection process. all
successful candidates will be expected to enter into an employment contract
and a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be
required to undergo a security clearance three (3) months after appointment.
the office the chief justice complies with the provisions of The Protection Of
Personal Information Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 Of 2013. We Will Use Your
71
personal information provided to us for the purpose of recruitment only and
more specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy you have applied for.
in the event that your application was unsuccessful, the office of the chief
justice will retain your personal information for internal audit purposes as
required by policies. all the information requested now or during the process is
required for recruitment purposes. failure to provide requested information will
render your application null and void. the office of the chief justice will
safeguard the security and confidentiality of all information you shared during
the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/84 : PRINCIPAL COURT INTERPRETER, REF NO: 2026/17/OCJ
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to
reapply
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Legal Interpreting
or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of two (2) years’ experience as a Court Interpreter, or Grade
twelve (12) certificate with at least ten (10) years practical experience in Court
Interpreting. Two (2) years supervisory experience, Proficiency in English,
isiXhosa, and (isiZulu or Sesotho). A valid driver’s license will serve as an
added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and skills: Adherence to Batho Pele and the OCJ principles,
knowledge of Court proceedings and cultural diversity, knowledge of Policies,
Prescripts and Legislations, communication (oral and written) skills and
listening skills, computer literacy (Ms Word, PowerPoint, Outlook and Internet,
etc.), problem solving, good Interpersonal relations, planning and organizing
skills, good people skills, intermediate typing skills and customer service
orientation.
DUTIES : render interpreting services in high profile matters: interpret in complex cases.
interpret in criminal, civil, and labour court. control, supervise and attend to
personnel administrative aspects of interpreters: provide mentoring and
coaching to junior/ senior interpreters. manage performance agreement
contracts. draw a schedule for replacement of court interpreters. translate legal
documents and exhibits: study and analyse the source documents. conduct
necessary research and consult. check, edit and revise the translated
documents. procure foreign language interpreters and casuals in line with pfma
and the relevant policy: report statistics to be generated and escalated to the
cluster manager for consolidation. authorise payment of foreign language
interpreters and casuals. develop terminology: harvest of terminology and
database development. provide terms and their respective meanings in the
glossary register. supervise and develop staff: ensure general supervision of
employees. allocate duties and perform quality control on the work delivered
by officials.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr M Mhlontlo Tel No: (047) 504 5500
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications Can Be Sent Via Email To 2026/17/OCJ@Judiciary.Org.Za
NOTE : the organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the employment
equity goals.
POST 18/85 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LEGAL, REF NO: 2026/40/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708.per annum (Level 05). The Successful Candidate Will
Be Required To Sign A Performance Agreement.
CENTRE Northern Cape Division Of The High Court: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS applicants should be in possession of grade 12, no experience is required. LLB
Degree will serve as an added advantage knowledge and skills: knowledge
and understanding of confidentiality in government. research skills,
communication skills (verbal and written), minutes taking skills, good reporting
skills, computer literacy, creative and analytical thinking skills, decision making
72
and time thinking skills, administration skills, problem solving skills, good
organizing skills and customer service oriented.
DUTIES : conduct legal research for the regional court: conduct legal research or
research on any other topic requested for by the regional court presidents/ chief
magistrate, download the cases in the monthly notifications from juta,
download for distribution to the magistrate of all judgements as well as any
amendments to relevant legislations. provide administration functions to the
regional court president/chief magistrate: compile court performance statistics
monthly/quarterly/annually or as required by regional court president/ chief
magistrate, verify and validate statistics, provide support with production of the
court performance reports, provide support with the presentation and
dissemination of the court performance information. provide support to case
flow management: forward case flow challenges report to relevant
stakeholders as it is reported and the monthly incidents to each relevant
stakeholder. compile provincial efficient, enhancement committee (PEEC),
regional efficiency enhancement committee (REEC) and district efficiency
enhancement committee (DEEC) court performance report and related matter.
provide support in the regional court registrar: provide support to assistant
registrars in civil issuing offices with issuing, capturing etc, provide support in
the regional court registrar as requested with reports and inspections and
provide support with the training of the court clerks.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr P Rumani: Tel No: (053) 492 3560
HR Related Enquiries: Ms P Netshivhale: Tel No: (053) 492 3533
APPLICATIONS : Applications Can Be Sent Via Email To 2026/40/OCJ@Judiciary.Org.Za
NOTE : the organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the employment
equity goals.
73
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria. For Attention Ms NP
Mudau
Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or Hand
Deliver at Ground floor, Customs House, Lower Heerengracht Street, Cape
Town. For Attention: Ms. C Rossouw
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 time at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https: www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-entry
programme/.All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Note: For
emailed applications, please submit a SINGLE PDF document or ONE
Attachment per application to the email address designated on the specific
position. Kindly Note That The Emailed Applications And Attachments Should
74
Not Exceed 15MB. It remains the candidate’s responsibility to ensure that their
application is successfully submitted using the required single pdf document.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the following amendments for posts advertised in
Public Service Vacancy Circular 16 dated 15 May 2026, with a closing date of
05 June 2026: The post of Administrative Officer: Provisioning Ref No:
2026/209B for Cape Town Regional Office was erroneously advertised, the
position is therefore withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/86 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS (LABOUR RELATIONS
MANAGEMENT) REF NO: 2026/
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06)/ National Diploma
in Human Resource Management/ Labour Relations or Labour Law. A valid
driver’s License. An extensive relevant working experience in Labour Relations
Management environment of which relevant years should be at the Junior
Management level (ASD equivalent Level). Knowledge of PERSAL will be an
added advantage. Knowledge: Knowledge of the Constitution of the RSA,
Public Service Act and Regulations, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Collective Agreements, and the
Public Finance Management, Labour Relations policies and processes,
directives and collective agreements. Knowledge of disciplinary, grievances,
and dispute processes in the Public Service. Skills: Basic numeracy;
interpersonal and diplomacy skills; general administration and organisational
skills; interpretation of policies and Legislations; ability to undertake basic
research/gather information; computer literacy; financial administration;
change/diversity management; objectivity; analytical thinking; problem solving
skills; motivational skills; influencing skills; conflict management; presentation
skills; negotiation skills; communication, investigation and report writing
abilities. Personal Attributes: Innovative; Creative; Resourceful; Objectivity;
Ability to work independently and under stressful situations; Ability to
communicate at all levels; People orientated; Trustworthy; Assertive; Hard-
working; Self-motivated and must be prepared to travel; willing to adapt work
schedule in accordance with office requirements.
DUTIES : The effective management of grievances, disputes and disciplinary processes.
Investigate grievances and misconduct cases, manage conflict in the
workplace, Represent the Department in grievances, disciplinary and dispute
matters/hearings which include litigation processes. Manage Labour Relations
Database. Manage resources within the Labour Relations Directorate, Conduct
and manage trainings, workshop to educate employees on labour related
matters. Implement, interpret and maintain policies. Advise employees and
managers on labour related matters.
ENQUIRIES : MR GP Makhubela Tel No: 012 406 1189
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-46@dpw.gov.za
POST 18/87 : ASD: ARCHIVES & OFFICE SUPPORT SERVICES
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06)/ National Diploma
in Public Administration/ Information Science, Records Management; Relevant
years’ experience in records management at supervisory level. Knowledge:
National Archives and Records Service of South Africa Act NARSSA);
Promotion to Access to Information Act (PAIA); Promotion of Personal
Information Act (POPI); Information Security Policy; Electronic Document
Management System; Electronic Communication and Transaction Act (no. 25
of 2002); Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS); Public Service
Regulations (PSR); Public Service Act (PSA); Supply Chain Management
Framework; Public Finance Management Act; Code of Conduct for Supply
Chain Management Practitioners; LOGIS and Treasury Regulations. Skills:
Project management; Management skills; Problem identification and solving
skills; Organisational presentation skills; Numeracy; Relationship
management; Interpersonal and diplomacy skills; Decision making skills;
Motivational skills; Negotiation skills; Conflict management; Advanced verbal
75
communication and report writing skills; Computer literacy; Report Writing.
Personal Attributes: High ethical standards; Ability to conduct business with
integrity; Ability to promote mutual trust and respect; Innovative; Reliable;
Flexible; Creative; Solution orientated; Highly motivated and Ability to meet
tight deadlines whilst delivering excellent results. Other: Willing to adapt work
schedule in accordance with office requirements.
DUTIES : Implement effective records management systems-:Facilitate the
implementation of records management policies and guidelines; Advise and
coordinate the use of approved File Plan by departmental units; Reduce the
duplication of records to improve information sharing; Implement records
preservation strategies on crucial records; Monitor and evaluate records
management practices for compliance; Undertake regular reviews and
analysis of records management training needs; Raise awareness on records
management and information practices; Provide compliance report on records
management to the management. Supervise the Departmental registry
operations:-Facilitate access to information and records; Regulate the receipt
and flow of related documentation; Ensure that files are available on request;
Ensure the tracing of files; Coordinate the provision of printing works; Manage
the dispatching of outgoing mail; Monitor and track the utilisation of files from
the Registry; Control the maintenance and application of the filing system;
Conduct regular registry inspections/audit. Manage office support services: -
Provide postal and courier services; Manage the provision of driving services
to transport passengers and deliver other items (mail and documents) for the
Department; Ensure effective schedules for drivers and messengers; Manage
the photocopying services; Manage the telephone accounts activities.
Implement systematic disposal of inactive records in accordance with
applicable prescripts-:Develop systematic disposal programme; Conduct
records audit to determine which records/ archives to be dispose; Compile the
application for disposal authority and submit to National Archives; Ensure
authorization of records to be disposed; Provide advice on the disposal of
records, particularly how long records should be kept; Manage the register of
documents that have been disposed. Supervise employees to ensure effective
service delivery -: Provide general supervision of employees; Allocate duties
and do quality control of the work delivered by supervisees; Advise and lead
subordinates with regard to all aspects of the work; Manage performance,
conduct and discipline of subordinates; Ensure that all subordinates are trained
and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently
and effectively; Develop, implement and monitor work systems (Rea-patala)
and processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Letty Mahlangu; Telephone Number: 012 406-1451
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-47@dpw.gov.za
POST 18/88 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT & PLANNING REF
NO: 2026/
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Human
Resource Management or related field. Appropriate working experience in
Human Resource Recruitment Management. Knowledge: Standards,
practices, processes and procedures related to HR Recruitment. Structure and
functioning of the Department. Employment Equity Plan of the Department.
Public Service Act and Regulations. Employment Equity Act. Knowledge of
PERSAL. Basic Condition Act. Public finance Management Act. Codes of
Remuneration. Conflict Management. Project management. Skills: Numeracy.
Interpersonal and diplomacy skills. Advisory skills. Supervisory skills. General
administration and organization skills. Computer utilization. Analytical thinking.
Problem solving skills. Communication and report writing abilities. Personal
Attributes: Creative. Ability to work under stressful situations. Ability to
communicate at all levels. People Orientated, Punctuality, Assertive, Hard-
working, Self-motivated, Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Facilitate and implement advertising process. Receive and implement staff
requisitions forms and motivation for posts to be advertised. Facilitate the
drafting of advertisements. Implementation of recruitment and selection
processes. Keep records of application. Oversee sorting of received
applications. Ensure development of applicant’s profiles. Facilitate the
invitation of shortlisted applicants. Represent Human resources in interviews
76
of shortlisted applicants. Communicate with successful applicants. Verify
results, certificates and qualifications. Facilitate the compilation of appointment
letters. Facilitate personal planning requirements. Compile, maintain and
communicate the human resource plan. Undertake the human resource
assessments as prescribed. Promote the achievement of employment equity
and support the employment equity plan. Keep abreast of changes in
employment legislation and ensure that related HR processes are aligned
thereto. Supervise employees to ensure an effective service delivery. General
supervision of employees. Allocate duties and perform quality control on the
work delivered by supervisees. Advice and lead supervisees with regard to all
aspects of the work. Manage performance, conduct and discipline of
supervisees. Ensure that all supervisees are trained and developed to be able
to deliver work of the of the required standard efficiently and effectively
ENQUIRIES : Ms NP Mudau Tel No: (012) 406 1552
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-47@dpw.gov.za
POST 18/89 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LABOUR RELATIONS MANAGEMENT REF
NO: 2026/
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) /National Diploma
in Management Sciences. Relevant years of experience in Labour Relations
Management environment and a valid Drivers’ license. Exposure in the Labour
Relations environment will be an added advantage. Knowledge: Knowledge of
Labour Relations legislations, Public Service Act and Public Service
Regulations, Knowledge of disciplinary, grievances and dispute processes in
the Public Service, Knowledge of the LOGIS System in the Public Service.
Skills: Basic numeracy, interpersonal, facilitation, Coordination, and
communication (verbal and written) skills. Personal Attributes: resourceful,
creative, ability to communicate at all levels; people orientated; maintaining
Confidentiality, Integrity, honesty and trustworthy, self-motivated; ability to work
independently and under pressure.
DUTIES : Administer the Labour Relations database by registering Labour Relations
cases, ensure accurate capturing of cases, proper maintenance of database
of cases, compile and submits reports, coordinate meetings for the Directorate
and records minutes, monitor implementation of decision taken. Provide
financial, procurement and logistics administration services for the Directorate,
make travel bookings for the Directorate and proper administration and
management of the resources for the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MJ Mahasha Tel No: 012 406 1193
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-48@dpw.gov.za
POST 18/90 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE (HRA) REF NO:
2026/
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) /National Diploma
in Human Resources Management or Public Administration. Appropriate
experience in Human Resources Management with emphasis on HR
Administration (Condition of Services and pensions). Knowledge of standards,
practices, processes and procedures. Good Knowledge of PERSAL, CORE,
Ability to apply and interpret Legislative frameworks such as PSA, PSR, EEA
and other regulatory prescripts for the public sector. Data analysis techniques,
ability to undertake basic research and gather information, Computer
utilization, good communication and report writing abilities, conflict
management and the ability to perform under pressure.
DUTIES : Administration of condition of services and benefits. Providing an advisory
function to DPWI staff on Human Resources policies. Processing of
appointments and service terminations. Administration of pension benefits.
Assist in the policy reviews related to condition of services. Ensure that relevant
stakeholders are involved on policy making processes. Assist in sourcing
information needed to report on Audit findings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Booysen Tel No: 012 406 1766
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-49@dpw.gov.za
77
POST 18/91 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: TRANSPORT (SCM: PROVISIONING AND
LOGISTICS) REF NO: 2026/
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) /National Diploma
in Supply Chain Management/ Logistics/ Transport Management/ Public
Administration/ Public Management. Relevant years extensive working
experience in Transport Management. Sound knowledge and understanding of
pertinent policies related to procurement of goods and services, National
Treasury Regulation\, Supply Chain Management, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act
(PPPFA) and Regulation, and Code of Conduct. Thorough knowledge and
understanding of Standard Chart of Accounts (SCOA) and applicable financial
business systems (LOGIS and BAS or SAGE, REAPATALA and ARCHIBUS).
Excellent verbal and written communication skills, problem Solving, Analytical
skills and Computer literacy. An ability to handle, confidential information. A
valid driver’s License. Knowledge of preparing financial statements.
Clientele/customer relations skills (including report writing), hard-working and
highly motivated. Ability to work efficiently under pressure; willing to adapt to
work schedule in accordance with line function requirements. Knowledge of
logistical processes and policies.
DUTIES : Ensuring day-to-day management and maintenance of fleet vehicles.
Verification and processing of invoices. Exercise control over the maintenance
and expenditure involved in the use of fleet vehicles. Processing Subsistence
and Travel claims. Management of traffic fines. Management of accidents and
damages. Assist in processing new applications for subsidised vehicles.
Ensure proper and effective records management system. Ensure compliance
with transport policies, procedures and processes. Assist with providing inputs
in preparation of interim and Annual Financial Statements. Provide guidance
and awareness to all users of fleet vehicles in relation to new policies,
prescripts, circular pertaining to Transport/Fleet/ and Travel related activities.
Perform other related tasks as per supervisor’s instruction and willingness to
adapt to work schedule in accordance with office requirements
ENQUIRIES : Ms. P Molapo 021 402 2266
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: Email to: RecruitCPT26-18@dpw.gov.za
POST 18/92 : DRIVER REF NO: 2026/
(Provisioning And Logistics)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA. A
valid driver’s license as well as a Professional Driving Permit (PDP).
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of the procedures to operate
the motor vehicle. Knowledge of prescripts for the correct utilization of motor
vehicles. Knowledge of the procedures to ensure that the motor vehicle is
maintained properly. Knowledge of the procedures to perform messenger
functions and routine office support functions like registry services and making
of photocopies. Knowledge of the city district in which the functions will be
performed
DUTIES : Perform general messenger and delivery services. Sort and arrange
correspondences in the registry. Collect submissions and other documents
from the assigned office. Render a driver service including driving light and
medium motor vehicles to transport passengers, performing routine
maintenance on the allocated vehicle. Sort mail, files, documents and parcels.
Render delivery services. Ensure that items to collect are sealed and
addressed. Deliver mail, files, documents and parcels to addressees. Deliver
submissions between offices. Ensure that the recipients sign on the delivery
book/register. Record contents and physical addresses in the delivery
book/register. Perform general office assistant tasks. Make copies, fax and
shred documents. Render auxiliary administrative support as required. Support
the security profile of the office. Support registry related activities. Support
operator related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mgwadleka Tel No: (021) 402 203
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: Email to: RecruitCPT26-19@dpw.gov.za
78
ANNEXURE O
THE DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Small Business Development is an equal opportunity & affirmative action employer. It
is the DSBD’s intention to promote representativity (race, gender, youth & disability). The candidature of
persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by email to the relevant email and by quoting
the relevant reference number provided on the subject line. Acceptable formats
for submission of documents are limited to MS Word, PDF.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 at 16h00. Applications received after the closing date will not be
considered.
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed Z83 form and a recent comprehensive CV. Submission
of copies of qualifications, Identity document, and any other relevant
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All non-SA citizens will
be required to submit proof of permanent residence in South Africa when
shortlisted. Personnel suitability checks will be done during the selection
process. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access to their
social media accounts. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 1 month of the closing
date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. In the pursuit of diversity and redress, appointments will be made
in line with the DSBD EE Plan. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment, as well as complete a financial interest
declaration form within one month of appointment and annually thereafter. The
Department reserves the right not to fill or withdraw any advertised post. Note:
a new application for employment (Z83) form is applicable from 01 January
2021. The new form can be downloaded online at
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/93 : DIRECTOR: VALUE CHAIN SUPPORT “REF NO: D – VCS”
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate and an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in
Economics / Entrepreneurship / Development Studies / Business Management
or equivalent / related as recognised by SAQA. Possess a minimum of 5 years’
relevant experience at a middle / senior managerial level within Value Chain
Support and Market Access Environment. A compulsory pre-entry into the
Senior Management Service Certificate from the National School of
Government will be required before assumption of duty
(https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme). Display
competencies in Strategic Capability & Leadership, Financial Management,
Problem Solving and Analysis, People Management and Empowerment, Client
Orientation and Customer Focus, Change Management, Service Delivery
Innovation and Communication.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and oversight for value chain development
initiatives aimed at strengthening MSMEs and Co-operatives. Lead the
identification, development, and support of priority value chains aligned to
national, sectoral, and regional economic priorities. Coordinate the design and
implementation of value chain interventions that enhance market access,
competitiveness, and industrial participation of small enterprises. Facilitate
integration of MSMEs and co-operatives into local, regional, and global value
chains through partnerships with public and private sector stakeholders.
Oversee collaboration with sector departments, DFIs, SOEs, municipalities,
and industry bodies to unlock opportunities along targeted value chains.
Ensure alignment of value chain programmes with localisation,
industrialisation, and inclusive growth objectives. Monitor performance of value
chain projects and initiatives, ensuring effective implementation, risk mitigation,
and impact measurement. Manage the directorate’s budget, procurement
79
processes, and resources in compliance with applicable financial and
governance prescripts. Provide leadership and guidance to officials within the
directorate to ensure effective delivery and accountability.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
on Tel No: (012) 394-5286/3097 or 072 242 6245
NOTE : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates must submit applications to
recruitment5@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying, i.e., “REF
NO: D – VCS’’
POST 18/94 : DIRECTOR: INFORMAL & MICRO BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT: “REF NO:
D – I&MBD”
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate and an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in
Economics / Business Administration / Development Finance /
Entrepreneurship / Commerce / Development Studies or equivalent / related
as recognised by SAQA. Possess a minimum of 5 years’ relevant experience
at a middle / senior managerial level in informal sector and micro business
support environment. A compulsory pre-entry into the Senior Management
Service Certificate from the National School of Government will be required
before assumption of duty (https://thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-
programme). Display competencies in Strategic Capability & Leadership,
Programme and Project Management, Financial Management, Problem
Solving and Analysis, People Management and Empowerment, Client
Orientation and Customer Focus, Change Management, Service, Delivery
Innovation and Communication.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and direction for informal and micro business
development interventions. Lead the development, review and implementation
of policies, strategies and programmes supporting the informal and micro
enterprise sector. Oversee the implementation and performance of informal
and micro enterprise support programmes, including financial and non-
financial interventions. Coordinate intergovernmental relations and
partnerships with provinces, municipalities, SOEs, DFIs, and private sector
stakeholders. Drive initiatives that promote business formalisation, economic
inclusion, and sustainability of informal and micro enterprises. Manage
programme budgets, expenditure, and resource allocation in compliance with
PFMA and departmental prescripts. Ensure effective monitoring, evaluation,
and reporting on programme outcomes and impact. Identify, manage, and
mitigate operational, financial, and programme risks. Lead and manage staff
performance, capacity development, and organisational effectiveness. Ensure
compliance with governance, regulatory, and accountability frameworks
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
on Tel No: (012) 394-5286/3097 or 072 242 6245
NOTE : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates must submit applications to
recruitment4@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying, i.e., “REF
NO: D – I&MBD”
80
ANNEXURE P
DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM
The Department of Tourism is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity (race, gender, and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number, must be forwarded to the
attention of Chief Director: HR Management and Development at Department
of Tourism, Private Bag X424, Pretoria, 0001, or hand delivered at Tourism
House, 17 Trevenna Road, Sunnyside, Pretoria, or by email as provided.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 by 16:30 (Late applications will not be considered)
NOTE : Application must include a Z83 form and CV only. The electronic application
must be in PDF format and made up of a single document file. Indicate the
correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your
email. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted
on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s)
advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialled, and signed by the applicant as instructed
below. Failure to fully complete, initial, and sign the Z83 form will lead to the
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All fields of
Section A, B, C, and D of the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G
(Due to the limited space on the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to refer to
their CV or see attached. However, the question related to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered, and the declaration
signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous
experience, if any) and a completed and signed new Z83 application form are
required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies
of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the
interview, following the communication from Human Resources, and such
qualifications (s) and other related documents (s) will be in line with the
requirements of the advert. Applicants in possession of foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). Applicants who do not
comply with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as
applications received late, will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Candidates will further be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification, and employment verification). Some of the interviewed candidates
for Senior Management level vacancies may be subjected to a 2-day
competency assessment that will test generic competencies. Appointment
validity will be conditional on the signing of the employment contract,
performance agreement, and annual financial disclosure, and the applicant
must attain a security clearance (vetting) applicable to the post. The
Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. You are consenting
to the Department of Tourism processing your personal information, subject to
POPIA, by applying for this post.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/95 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE AND PRODUCT
DEVELOPMENT (REF NO: DT32/2026)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (level 12), all-inclusive salary package. The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within the relevant framework
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised NQF Level 7 qualification in Tourism/Development Economics or
related studies. 5 years of relevant experience in tourism infrastructure related
management of which 3 years must be at a supervisory level. Computer
literacy MS Office Packages and Basic Project management. Knowledge of
81
relevant Acts and Prescripts Knowledge of tourism management and
development. Knowledge of project management systems. Knowledge of
Strategic capacity and leadership. Knowledge of Service delivery innovation.
Understanding of Client orientation and customer focus. Understanding of
People management and empowerment. Knowledge of financial management.
Honesty and integrity. Knowledge of program and project management.
Knowledge of change management. Knowledge and information management.
Understanding of tourism policies and procedures. Knowledge of South Africa’s
domestic and international policies in relation to Tourism. Knowledge and
understanding of South Africa regions and the continent. Communication.
Analytical thinking. Networking skills. Diplomacy. Language proficiency and
writing skills. Stakeholder management. Strategic planning. Financial
management. Human resource management. A valid driver's license. Persons
with disabilities that prevent them from driving will still be considered.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for facilitating the development
and enhancement of tourism products across the IGR framework and in
collaboration with industry; Auditing strategic tourism infrastructure across
destination South Africa and prioritise those in need of urgent upgrades in
preparation for target markets; Facilitating engagement with relevant
authorities and identify interventions; Coordinating resource mobilisation for
the identified products; Managing the identification and improvement of
technology needs of product development; Doing a trend analysis of
deployment of visitor enhancement technologies at various tourism sites;
Engaging of operators of various product offerings on visitor friendly
technologies; Coordinating resource mobilisation for implementation of visitor
friendly technologies; Providing a strategic liaison and partnership function for
product development; Researching product development donor funding
opportunities; Liaising and advise community product owners on product
development issues; Facilitating access to market and growth opportunities for
community product owners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Chauke Tel. (012) 444 6350
APPLICATION : Recruitment3226@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 14/96 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EVALUATION (REF NO: DT33/2026)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (level 12), all-inclusive salary package. The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within the relevant framework
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised NQF Level 7 qualification in Monitoring and Evaluation or related
field. A post graduate qualification will be an added advantage. Five (5) years’
experience in Monitoring and Evaluation of which three (3) years must be at a
supervisory level. Knowledge of relevant Acts and Prescripts. Knowledge of
National Development Plan. Knowledge of Government-Wide Monitoring and
Evaluation Policy Framework. Knowledge of National Evaluation Policy
Framework. Understanding of PFMA, Finance and Procurement policies.
Understanding of departmental policies and procedures. Understanding of
Public service prescripts. Basic knowledge of statistics. Research skills.
Monitoring and evaluation skills. Planning and Project management skills.
Interpersonal skills. Data analysis and interpretation skills. Skills in developing
M&E methodologies and data collection tools. Problem solving skills. Report
writing skills. Good communication and presentation skills. A valid driver's
license. (Persons with disabilities that prevent them from driving will still be
considered).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for developing, reviewing and
implementing the Departmental Monitoring and Evaluation Framework;
Ensuring research is conducted to develop and review M&E frameworks and
guidelines; Aligning Departmental M&E Framework with Government-Wide
M&E Framework; Ensuring the implementation of Departmental M&E
Framework; Developing and reviewing Departmental Evaluation Plan (DEP),
Conducting consultations to identify projects and programmes for evaluation;
Providing secretariat support for the departmental evaluation committees;
Participating at National Evaluation Committees and government M&E forums;
; Conducting evaluation on programmes and projects identified and
82
implemented by the Department; Ensuring the evaluation of departmental
programmes and projects in line with departmental M&E framework and
guidelines; Developing proposals for evaluations to be conducted; Developing
methodology, indicators and data collection tools for evaluation studies;
Conducting site visits and data collection for evaluations; Conducting data
quality assurance and analysis for M&E; Developing evaluation reports with
clear recommendations, implementation and improvement plans; Ensuring
implementation of the Improvement Plans after evaluations; Assisting with
training on methodology and data collection for evaluations; Developing a data
management system for M&E; Developing briefing and advisory reports on
M&E; Managing staff in the evaluation unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mafela Tel. (012) 444 6371
APPLICATION : Recruitment3326@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured male and White male candidates as well as youth
and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/97 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: B-BBEE LIASON AND COUNCIL ADMINISTRATION
(REF NO: DT34/2026)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (level 12), all-inclusive salary package. The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within the relevant framework
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised NQF Level 7 qualification in Public Management /Social Science/
Development or Policy Studies / Business Management. Post-graduate
qualification will be an added advantage. 5 years relevant experience in
stakeholder management, administrative and secretariat services, policy
studies, research and project management, of which 3 years must be at
supervisory management. Other requirements include B-BBEE Management
Development Programme Certificate. Knowledge of Tourism White Paper,
Tourism Act No.3 of 2014, National Tourism Sector Strategy, BEE Strategy,
Amended B-BBEE Act No. 46 of 2013, Amended Generic Codes of Good
Practice, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA),
Employment Equity Act 55 of 99, Amended Tourism B-BBEE Sector 20
November 2015, Knowledge of Public Service procedures, Policy and
prescripts, Leadership Skills, Project Management, Financial Management,
Stakeholder Management, Analytical Skills, Report Writing Skills, Policy
Development Skills, Policy Advocacy Skills, Monitoring and Evaluation Skills,
Research Skills, Project Management Skills, Finance/ Budgeting Skills,
Presentation Skills, Negotiation Skills, Computer Literacy, Secretariat Skills,
Communication and Liaison Skills. A valid driver’s license (Persons with
disabilities that prevent them from driving will still be considered).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for managing the secretariat and
oversight functions for the Tourism Transformation Council of South Africa
(TTCSA); Acquiring quarterly reports from the TTCSA; Analysing quarterly
TTCSA’s reports for compliance with planning prescripts; Developing Council
reports for submission to DG, Deputy Minister and Minister on quarterly basis;
Arranging quarterly B-BBEE reporting meetings between the Council and
Deputy Minister/ Minister; Facilitating the transfer of budget from the
Department to the TTCSA on annual basis; Ensuring timely preparation,
consolidation and distribution of documents for meetings of Council with the
Deputy Minister/Minister; Preparing minutes of Council meetings with the
Deputy Minister/ Minister; Ensuring effective follow-ups on all actions from
minutes and implementation of decisions and develop regular progress reports;
Keeping full and proper records of all minutes and expenditures of the Council
on the allocated budget; Overseeing the management of Tourism B-BBEE
stakeholders; Developing and maintaining stakeholders database and foster
good relations with all stakeholders; Monitoring and evaluating engagements
with stakeholders and develop reports with recommendations; Identifying
challenges of stakeholders in complying with the Tourism B-BBEE Codes and
recommend substantive mechanism to address them; Developing and
implementing empowering programmes for targeted groups in partnership with
appropriate tourism stakeholders; Serving as the liaison officer between the
Council and the Department; Raising awareness on Tourism Transformation
Policy; Developing and implementing stakeholder consultation plan to raise
awareness on transformation policies/ Amended Tourism B-BBEE Sector
83
Codes in all provinces; Making logistical arrangements for workshops,
including booking venues, speakers and content; Developing and updating
web-based content on Tourism Transformation B-BBEE Codes and
empowerment initiatives; Presenting content on transformation/ Tourism B-
BBEE Codes to stakeholders and respond to general queries thereof;
Managing frequently asked questions on transformation matters/ Amended
Tourism B-BBEE Codes and develop a report quarterly; Implementing
Transformation Strategy; Facilitating development of Transformation Strategy
for the department; Analysing and presenting the Transformation Strategy to
tourism stakeholders; Submitting Transformation Strategy for approval by
management; Designing and distributing the Transformation Strategy
documents to stakeholders in the sector; Identifying priority projects from the
Transformation Strategy to fast-track inclusivity; Developing an annual report
on the implementation of the Transformation Strategy.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mankge, Tel. (012) 444 6569
APPLICATION : Recruitment3426@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/98 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS (REF NO: DT35/2026)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (level 09), excluding benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised NQF Level 6 qualification in Human Resources/Labour Relations/
Labour Law or Law. A minimum of 3-4 years of relevant experience in the
appropriate environment of which 2 years should be on a senior practitioner
level or equivalent. Knowledge of relevant Acts and Prescripts. Knowledge of
labour relations Act. Understanding of Basic conditions of employment Act.
Understanding of Public service Act. Understanding of Public service
regulations, resolution 1 of 2003, resolution 14 of 2002. Knowledge of senior
management Handbook. Understating of departmental policies. Knowledge of
PERSAL. Good report writing skills. Good communication skills. Ability to
interpret and apply relevant prescripts. Ability to gather and analyse
information. Interpersonal skills. Ability to work individually and in a team. A
valid driver’s licence (Persons with disabilities that prevent them from driving
will still be considered).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for facilitating and coordinating
disciplinary processes; Ensuring registration of misconduct cases;
Implementing outcomes of the Financial Misconduct Committee’s (FIMCO)
decisions; Facilitating the appointment of investigators, initiators and presiding
officers; Conducting investigations into allegations of misconduct and compile
reports; Formulating charges of misconduct and preparing submissions;
Preparing witness and initiating cases; Receiving presiding officer’s reports
and drafting submissions; Communicating the outcome of the disciplinary
hearing; Preparing submissions to the Minister of his delegate if appeal has
been lodged; Capturing the outcome of disciplinary hearings on PERSAL;
Processing of referred Harassment Cases; Facilitating and coordinating
grievances and dispute resolutions; Ensuring registration of grievances;
Facilitating the appointment of investigating officers; Co-ordinating the
finalisation of grievances; Conducting investigations or convening conciliation
or mediation meetings where appropriate; Receiving investigations officer’s
reports and drafting submissions for approval; Communicating the outcome of
the grievance to the aggrieved employee; Routing grievances to the Minister if
employee remained dissatisfied; Recording receipts of disputes referral forma
and notices from Council and Commission; Preparing documentary evidence
on disputes; Coordinating the attendance of the dispute’s jurisdiction,
condonation, representation, etc.; Advising implementation outcomes of the
proceedings; Facilitating the promotion of sound relations between employer,
trade unions and employees; Facilitating two (2) trainings per annum;
Identifying priority areas within the department requiring training; Compiling
training plan; Conducting impact assessment report; Conducting
benchmarking exercises within the relevant institutions; Monitoring employee
relations trends in terms of collective bargaining internally (DBC) and externally
Council; Providing written or oral advice to management and officials;
Coordinating and providing technical and secretarial services to the
Departmental Bargaining Chamber (DBC); Coordinating four (4) DBC’s per
annum; Establishing the employer’s availability for DBC meetings; Circulating
84
the relevant documents to the Chamber Administrator; Taking minutes during
the Task Team meetings, bi-laterals and multi-laterals and follow up on inputs
made; Liasing with policy drafters for availability for the DBC; Obtaining
policies, presentations and documents from drafters; Coordinating logistics for
DBC and Bi-laterals venue, parking, communication; Securing a mandate
where needed; Circulating the yearly meeting schedule to DG and organised
labour; Ensuring that statical reports are compiled; Ensuring that databases of
grievances and misconduct cases are updated regularly; Ensuring that six
monthly grievances statistics are compiled and submitted to the Public Service
Commission (PSC); Ensuring that annual financial misconduct report is
compiled to the PSC; Ensuring that quarterly reports on Employee Relations
(ER) cases are compiled and submitted to the Department of Public Service
Administration (DPSA); Ensuring that monthly and quarterly reports are
compiled for management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J T Tshazibana Tel. (012) 444 6146
APPLICATION : Recruitment3526@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/99 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS (REF NO:
DT36/2026)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (level 09) excluding benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised NQF Level 6 qualification in Social Work Psychology. 3-4 years
relevant experience in the field of employee health and wellness, of which 2
years must be at Senior Practitioner level or equivalent. Active registration with
a statutory/ professional body such as SACSSP or HPCSA. Basic knowledge
of EAP programmes. Training on basic Employee and Wellness programme
will be an added advantage. Understanding of Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulation, DPSA EHW strategic Framework and National Strategic
Plan on HIV, TB and STIs. Counselling and support referral knowledge. Conflict
resolution & mediation. Effective communication skills and stakeholder
management. Organising, planning and execution skills. Report writing skills.
A valid driver’s license (Persons with disabilities that prevent them from driving
will still be considered).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for Conducting initial assessment
and to refer to EAP contracted Service Providers for further management
based on the need of the employee; Offering trauma debriefing after critical
incidents; Coordinating stress management and resilience building workshops;
Conducting exit interviews with employees referred by Service benefits;
Coordinating individual and organisational wellness initiatives in accordance
with DPSA EHW Strategic Framework; Coordinating and monitoring sports and
recreational activities in the department; Monitoring the management of HIV,
STI and TB related cases; Monitoring the coordination and implementation of
workplace HIV Counselling and Testing (HCT) campaigns to promote early
detection, prevention, and access to treatment services; Monitoring the
coordination of HIV, STIs and TB related programmes, including education,
awareness campaigns, and prevention initiatives, in alignment with the health
calendar and National Strategic Plan on HIV, TB and STIs; Monitoring the
management of communicable and non-communicable diseases in the
department; Monitoring co-ordination of health awareness sessions in
accordance with the health calendar; Monitoring the management of employee
with chronic illnesses and provide support where necessary including PILIR;
Monitoring the coordination of Health and Wellness screenings in the
department; Coordinating mental health awareness initiatives; Monitoring the
management of injury on duty and internal health consultations; Monitoring
facilitation of walkabouts in identification of Occupational hazards and risk
assessment; Monitoring the coordination of Health Risk Assessments (HRA);
Coordinate SHERQ committee meetings quarterly; Managing OHS
:representatives in the department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Sibande Tel. (012) 444 6177
APPLICATION : Recruitment3626@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
85
POST 18/100 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: TRAVEL & ACCOMODATION (REF NO:
DT37/2026)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (level 05), excluding benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate or equivalent. No Experience required. Job Knowledge.
Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork. Computer.
Planning and organisation. Language. Good verbal and written
communication.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for processing bookings for travel
and accommodation; Receiving the travel requisitions from all travellers in the
Department; Verifying correctness and submit to Travel Management
Companies; Receiving and checking the quotations from the Travel
Management Companies; Checking proper completion of transport request
forms (VA26A) before issuing the order; Communicating discrepancies to the
travellers; Registering all VA26A that are received during the day; Issuing
official orders to the Travel Management Companies and other travel service
providers; Following up on vouchers and confirmations with service providers;
Receiving and updating travellers profiles; Attending and resolving travel
related queries and escalate where necessary; Verifying and processing RFQs;
Receiving RFQs via email and verify for correctness; Communicating
discrepancies to travellers; Sending RFQs to Travel Management Company;
Attending and resolving RFQ queries and escalate where necessary; Filing of
travel documents; Opening new files each financial year according to ND
number and directorate; Filing VA26A in respective files; Assisting with
payments; Receiving and verifying invoices; Verifying invoices with original
travel requests; Creating BAS payment advices per account; Submitting to
manager for verification.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O Sekgweleo Tel. (012) 444 6776
APPLICATION : Recruitment3726@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 18/101 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK: ASSET MANAGEMENT (REF NO: DT38/2026)(3
POSTS)
(6 Months fixed term contract)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (level 05), excluding benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate or equivalent. No Experience required. Job Knowledge.
Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork. Computer.
Planning and organisation. Language. Good verbal and written
communication.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for Physical movement of
furniture and equipment in the office; Receiving email from officials requesting
movement of furniture and equipment; Completing asset forms/movement form
(BAMV); Moving office furniture and equipment to correct location; Signing off
the movement form by both the end user and asset official; Updating asset
register; Printing the inventory control sheet; Signing off the inventory control
sheet by both the end user and asset official; Inventorying control sheet placed
at the back of the door; Filling the assets form/movement form (BAMV);
verification of Assets, spot checks and physical disposal of assets; Conducting
spot checks on daily basis; verification of assets on quarterly basis; Compiling
a list of redundant/obsolete assets for disposal; Preparing a disposal file for
disposal meetings; Physical disposal of approved asset for disposal; Updating
of asset register; Barcoding of assets; Replacement of fallen barcode;
Updating asset register; Minoring repairs of damaged assets; Checking the
correctness of the documents; Checking the custodians/end user of the asset
on the system; Capturing the receipt on the Logis System and allocate asset;
Signing off the simultaneous receipt for further payment processing; Random
spot checks of waste; Removing wastepaper in the building.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O Sekgweleo Tel. (012) 444 6773
APPLICATION : Recruitment3826@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
86
POST 18/102 : INDEPENDENT RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON
(3-Year Contract)
SALARY : Compensation will be in accordance with rates as determined by National
Treasury from time to time. Schedules in this regard are issued annually with
specific hourly or daily rates. All other refundable expenses are based on the
National Department of Tourism’s related policies in line with the National
Treasury guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of a Degree in Risk Management, Finance, Auditing or Business
Administration and affiliation to a recognised professional body. The ideal
candidate must be an independent external person with eight (8) to ten (10)
years of Executive Management experience gained in one or more of the
following areas: Risk Management, Governance, Strategic Management,
Auditing, Anti-Fraud and Corruption, Financial Management and Ethics and
Integrity Management. Must have a minimum of five (5) years of exposure
serving as a Risk or Audit Committee Chairperson in the public or private
sector. Must have extensive knowledge and experience in the relevant
regulations and prescripts, including the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) and Treasury Regulations, Enterprise-Wide Risk Management
(EWRM), ISO 31000, King IV Report on Corporate Governance, the COSO
model and Public Sector Risk Management Framework.
DUTIES : The primary objective of the Risk Management Committee is to assist the
Accounting Officer, through its oversight role, to fulfil his duties in respect of
establishing and maintaining a sound risk management system. The duties of
the Risk Management Committee Chairperson will include: Provide oversight
on the review and monitoring of the implementation of the Risk Management
Framework, Policy, Charter and Strategy. Provide guidance on the integration
of risk management into planning, monitoring and reporting processes. Provide
advice on setting and reviewing risk appetite, tolerance levels and anti-fraud
measures.. Chair the Risk Management Committee meetings and guide the
Committee in conducting its activities in accordance with the Public Sector Risk
Management Framework, the Public 1 Finance Management Act (PFMA) and
King IV Report on Corporate Governance, where applicable. Provide proper
and timely reports to the Accounting Officer on the state of risk management,
with aspects requiring improvement accompanied by the Committee’s
recommendations to address such aspects 6. Perform any other duties of the
Risk Management Committee as specified in the Risk Management Committee
Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Motshegwa, Tel. (012) 444 6591
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number, must be forwarded to the
attention of Ms R Motshegwa at Department of Tourism, Private Bag X424,
Pretoria, 0001, or hand delivered at Tourism House, 17 Trevenna Road,
Sunnyside, Pretoria, or by email as provided. Email
rmcrecruitment@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : In order to be considered, applications must be accompanied by all required
certified copies of qualifications, Identity Document, proof of
citizenship/permanent residence if not an RSA citizen and a comprehensive
CV (including three contactable references). It is the applicant’s responsibility
to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). All instructions on the application form and this advert must
be adhered to. Failure to comply with these requirements will result in the
candidate being disqualified. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three months of the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment.
Short-listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting to
determine their suitability for employment.
CLOSING DATE : 26 June 2026 by 16:30 (Late applications will not be considered)
87
ANNEXURE Q
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref no. must
appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided the application may not
be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources Management,
Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic Campus, corner of
Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside, Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026
NOTE : The application must include a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications received
that do not comply with this requirement will not be considered. Certified copies
of qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
panel for Senior Management Services (SMS) positions will further recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency-based assessment.
The Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela Programme) as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) must be completed
before an appointment on SMS level can be considered. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. No
appointment on SMS level will take place without the successful completion of
the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. Background
verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part of the
selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. the dtic reserves the right not to fill any
advertised position(s). the dtic is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer, and candidates whose appointment will promote representivity, will
be given preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/103 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADVANCED MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES
(REF: IIAF &A-0017)
Overview: To provide an investment promotion service in the Advanced
Manufacturing Industries (Aerospace, Defence, Electronics, Space, White
Goods and Fuel Cells
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (level 10), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum qualification at NQF level 7 in Business Management/Investment
/Finance /Economics/Marketing/ or relevant qualification. 3-5 years’ experience
in Industry/Marketing / Finance in both private or public sector or relevant
environment. Computer Literacy (MS Office Package) Strategic Investment
IPAP and economic policies training, Project Management. Key Requirements:
Experience in investment promotion, lead generation or investment marketing,
preferably in the advanced manufacturing sectors. Experience supporting
investor visits, inward/outward missions and initial project packaging.
Research and analytical skills to evaluate business plans and prepare
investment cases. Stakeholder engagement with industry associations, PIPAs
and international partners. Familiarity with CRM and investor pipeline systems
and basic project tracking. Project management skills and experience
managing consultant inputs or marketing materials. Good communication skills
and ability to travel as required.
88
DUTIES : Attraction, retention and expansion of local and foreign direct investment in
South Africa Provide inputs into the development of the investment.
recruitment- strategy and plans for the Sector. Support the implementation of
investment promotion and recruitment programmes. Provide support for the
successful arrangement of inward and outward missions. Maintain and update
an investor’s projects database. Conduct desktop research and preliminary
analyse companies’ investment proposals and business plans. Provide inputs
into the development of business cases for companies to invest in South Africa.
Provide support on the investment cycle in terms of investor targeting, lead
generation and investment marketing. Identification of measures to mitigate
economic risk. Lead generation and project investment marketing. Provide
inputs into the development and implementation of the investment marketing
plan. Undertake preliminary identification and authentication of leads. Facilitate
the initial arrangement of investors’ visits to South Africa. Facilitate the initial
process of converting leads into projects. Undertake initial tracking and
analysis of foreign direct investment (FDI) flows and prospects. Prepare the
initial list of investment projects as input to Business Plan. Undertake
preliminary packaging of investment projects for local and foreign investment
conferences, pavilions, and targeted outward investment missions. Provide
inputs into the development of marketing materials such as customised
presentations, briefing documents and speeches. Undertake the initial
development of value propositions for the sector and analysis of trends in the
sector. Stakeholder Management, engage with stakeholders and maintain
relations within the public, private sectors and industry organisations. Develop
strong partnerships and communication with stakeholders. Customer Relations
Management. Manage the quality assurance of customer relationship
management system (CRM) based on initial inputs provided by TIA. Undertake
initial follow-up investment enquiries and leads. Undertake initial identification
of group or individual target. investors for a specific incentives. Sub Directorate.
Management prepare the Initial collation of quarterly and annual reports,
business plans and targets. Provide information for compilation of reports on
investment meetings and visits. Report on financial and operational risk &
provide input formitigation Manage the human resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103 / V Mazibuko 012
394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African male,
Coloured female and male, White male and persons with disabilities.
POST 18/104 : INTERNAL AUDITOR: PERFORMANCE AUDIT REF: (ODG - 045)
Overview: To independently assess management measures in place to ensure
Economy, Efficiency and Effectiveness of operations, and make
recommendations in this respect.
SALARY : R605 742. per annum (level 10), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification in Internal Auditing, Accounting with majors in Auditing or
Accounting or related fields at NQF Level 6. 1–2 years in performance auditing
in the public/private sector. Key Requirements: Experience in conducting
performance audits and applying audit standards and methodologies. Ability to
gather and evaluate audit evidence, formulate findings and compile reports.
Strong understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations and performance
information auditing. Proficient in audit planning, execution, reporting, and
follow-up. Familiarity with SMART principles in performance planning and APP
evaluation. Attention to detail, analytical thinking and ability to communicate
audit results clearly. Proficiency in MS Office and electronic audit tools (e.g.
Teammate). Strong administrative and records management skills. Ability to
work independently and collaboratively within an audit team.
DUTIES : Prepare engagement documentation and analyse background information.
Identify focus areas, audit objectives and compile planning memos. Perform
control tests and compile working papers with audit evidence. Raise informal
queries and participate in audit fieldwork. Compile draft reports, obtain
comments, and follow up on audit findings. Participate in audit steering
committees and submit executive summaries. Assess APP planning and
evaluate quarterly/annual performance reporting. Submit accurate timesheets
and maintain audit files per the dtic standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103 / V Mazibuko 012
394 5608
89
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African male,
Coloured female and male, White male and persons with disabilities.
90
ANNEXURE R
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It should be noted that the
National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. For SMS
positions certain candidates may be required to undergo additional
Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za .The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/105 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SYSTEMS AND OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT REF
NO: S066/2026
Division: Intergovernmental Relations (IGR)
Purpose: To manage and support metropolitan municipalities with resilient
infrastructure investment, including programme and project preparation to
enable them to leverage additional concessionary and commercial loan finance
to enhance sustainable infrastructure investment and to ensure that the
projects funded by the NDPG are aligned with the objectives of the
Neighbourhood Development Programme.
91
SALARY : R1 101 468.per annum (Incl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum a degree (equivalent to NQF
level 7) in Built environment (Planning or Engineering), or Financial
Management. Project Management qualification will be an added advantage.
A minimum 4 years’ experience of which 2 years’ should be on an Assistant
Director level or equivalent obtained within Grant management. Experience of
financial/ grant administration management environment/ grant reporting/ grant
coordination. Internal and external stakeholder management experience.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Grant systems support: Facilitation of effective and
efficient grant management and grant monitoring systems are in place for the
UDFG and the MTS grant and regularly reviewed and updated and guidelines
and Standard Operating Procedures/SoPs are in place and updated. Support
the production of grant management systems for the UDFG and the MTS,
documented in the form of SoPs and guidelines. Support the production of
regular updates and refinements to the SoPs for the grant. Prepare the UDFG
and MTS annual grant framework with NDPP team. Manage the briefing and
onboarding of the IVA: Regular briefing and onboarding of the MTS
Independent Verification Agent/IVA to ensure the IVA is equipped to perform its
work. Provide a secretariate function for the MTS oversight governance
committees and support the convening of the committee as well as its
documenting of discussions; Engage with LGBA and IPP within NT for
processes such as MTBR and Benchmarking and any local government grant
review policy engagements that may require NDPP inputs. Grant performance
monitoring and reporting: Compile consolidated quarterly financial and
narrative report for UDFG and MTS. Receive metro progress reports and
prepare summary overviews for, mid-year engagements and review quarterly
and annual financial and narrative reports. Attend metro mid-year budget
assessments and provide inputs into the UDFG and MTS grant performance
at local government mid-year budget and benchmark engagements. Receive
annual performance report and evidence from the metros and collate it for the
independent verification process. Prepare submissions to oversight committee
based on report from IVA. Prepare inputs into grant allocations schedule with
NDPP team and preparation of inputs into grant payment schedule / transfer
memo with NDPP team. Review allocation letters to be sent out to metros.
Support LGBA rollover process (Review rollover requests from metros, give
recommendations and submit inputs to NDPP). Support LGBA withholding
process (Provide NDPP with inputs for withholding letter). Grant knowledge
management and communication support: Provide support to the knowledge
management and communication functions of the NDPP programme with a
focus on the UDFG grant and the MTS. Provide support to the knowledge
management and communication functions of the NDPP programme with a
focus on the UDFG grant and the MTS: Provide support to the knowledge
management and communication functions of the NDPP programme with a
focus on the UDFG grant and the MTS. Provide inputs to the Director KM to
document lessons and insights into the PBI grant management experience.
Support the Director with stakeholder management and communication w.r.t
grant management matters of the UDFG and MTS: with NT internal structures,
with MTS intergovernmental governance structures, with metros. Grant
coordination and compliance: Ensure that all metros comply with the
requirements of the Metro Trading Service as a component of the UDFG.
Prepare and attend mid-year engagements. Receive and review cash flows
from the metro. Give inputs in the compilation framework, budgets and
payments and transfer schedule of the metros. Report on specific delays in
projects implementation at the metros. Stakeholder Engagement & Municipal
Support: Ensure effective and efficient stakeholder management and
communication w.r.t grant management matters - with NT internal structures,
with MTS intergovernmental governance structures, with metros.
ENQUIRIES : ONLY (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 18/106 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INVESTMENT PLANNING REF NO: S067/2026
Division: Intergovernmental Relations (IGR)
Purpose: To provide grant coordination and technical management support for
the Urban Development Financing Grant and the Neighbourhood Development
Partnership Grant.
92
SALARY : R605 742. per annum (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum Bachelor’s. degree (equivalent
to NQF level 7) in Urban Development or Civil Engineering or Financial
Management. Project Management qualification will be an added advantage.
A minimum 3 years’ experience as an urban development or grant financial
management. Knowledge and experience of municipal service delivery
challenges. Knowledge of the operational aspects of local government.
Knowledge and experience in the management of urban and infrastructure
development. Knowledge of construction project analysis and oversight.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Logistical Support: Provide support to the NDPP-
UDFG and NDPG governance structures and forums and other relevant
institutional structures when required. Liaise with the various UDFG and NDPG
stakeholders (including NT internal and cities, national departments). Prepare
agendas, minutes and other UDFG and NDPG correspondence and
scheduling and organising meetings. Compile and file written and electronic
correspondence on UDFG and NDPG management (including letters and
memos). Provide general financial administration and human resource
services for the NDPP UDFG and NDPG. General Liaison and support with
and to service providers for the NDPP. Provide general financial administration
and human resource services for the NDPP UDFG and NDPG. Information
Management: Invoice Management - Processing of payments of the appointed
Service Providers; capturing of invoices on LOGIS, where applicable. Manage
the disbursements for the Service Providers when required. Support
communication with Programme Partners and stakeholders. Maintain
programme filing system (hardcopy and electronically). Grant Management,
Project Oversight & Reporting: Assist with the coordination, appraisal and
approval of NDPP preparation and capital-linked components. Monitor project
progress, risks, dependencies and compliance with DoRA, NDPP frameworks,
and internal programme requirements. Support the review of municipal
quarterly and annual reports and preparation of consolidated quarterly and
annual evaluation reports and technical summaries and status dashboards for
internal and external stakeholders. Contribute to strengthening NDPP
governance structures, process improvements and programme performance
tracking. Liaise with NT and or DBSA and or GTAC regarding the procurement
of services required for the implementation of the UDFG and oversee the
drafting of terms of references where required. Oversee and ensure that
specific terms of reference for service providers are drafted. Built Environment
Technical Analysis: Facilitation of technical assessments of infrastructure
readiness and spatial alignment for prioritized municipal projects. Support
municipalities to prepare implementation plans, support baseline management
planning and provide inputs for catalytic projects and trading services. Ensure
municipal project proposals comply with NDPP business processes. Site visits
to monitor and assess capital projects’ progress, support with recovery plans
and interventions if required.
ENQUIRIES : ONLY (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 18/107 : PROGRAMME COORDINATOR: OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
REF NO: S069/2026
Division: Office Of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To coordinate and render an administrative support service to the
business unit striving towards the attainment of a cohesive and broader
integrated working environment.
SALARY : R413 001.per annum (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF Level 6) or Bachelor’s. degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Public
Administration or Business Management or Project Management or Public
Management. A minimum 2 years’ experience obtained in administrative
environment. Knowledge of the broader legislative framework on applied
management and administration processes within government. Knowledge
and exposure of budget coordination processes. Knowledge of the analysis
and interpretation of internal policies for the correct application thereof.
93
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Integrated Business Support: Co-ordinate and
perform quality assurance on processes pertaining to all in-coming and out-
going memoranda for service enhancement and standardisation, handle
confidential documents / issues with utmost discretion. Develop and maintain
a filing system for record and audit purposes within the Office of the Chief
Director. Monitor the effectiveness of service delivery within the Office of the
Chief Director and propose improvement where necessary. Administer leave
centrally within the business environment and update the leave register for
verification, manage and file all Supply Chain records, financial records; asset
management, cell phone and telephone accounts and all records,
electronically and where required hard copies. Assist with the monitoring of all
procurement and administrative initiatives and verify alignment of claims and
invoices. Provide input to memoranda and record receipt thereof on the
electronic filing system for record purposes, editing, etc, if and when required.
Co-ordinate fast and efficient management of all correspondence, meeting of
deadlines for documents, and follow up. Business Support: Acknowledge and
confirm meetings, invitations to workshops on behalf of the Office of the Chief
Director. Provide inputs to the compilation of agendas, initiating the taking
minutes for the Office of the Chief Director, and follow-up on outstanding
commitments from stakeholders. Administer all duties with utmost discretion in
the execution of confidential matters and converse with clients in utmost
diplomacy. Stakeholder Relations and Engagement: Engage internal clients on
the coordination and enhancement of the integration of dual processes for
execution within the unit. Attend to clients’ needs, address concerns and
complains timeously, to improvement relations with stakeholders, and obtain
their trust. Analyse quotations for the attainment of the most effective and
efficient procurement of goods and services and advise accordingly. Budget
Co-ordination: Assist and prepare relevant documentation pertaining to the
consolidated budgetary inputs in compliance with the MTEF requirements and
cycle. Monitor expenditure against commitments and sensitise on possible
overspending. Initiate the movement of funds between items after consultation
with relevant stakeholders and compile relevant papers for execution.
ENQUIRIES : ONLY (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
94
ANNEXURE S
DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
The mandate of the Department is to lead on socio-economic transformation and implementation of the
empowerment and participation of women, youth and persons with disabilities through mainstreaming,
advocacy, monitoring and evaluation.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided below: you
may forward your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The Director-
General, Department of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, Private
Bag X931, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively, applications may also be hand
delivered to 268 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Fedsure Forum Building, 1st floor, Pretoria
CBD. Another option is to submit application through email as a single scanned
document/one PDF attachment to the email addresses specified for each
position (kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments should not
exceed 15mb). General enquiries may be brought to the attention of Ms Lerato
Segodi 012 359 0073/ Mr Joseph Mahlangu 012 359 0238
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form, which can be downloaded
from: http://www.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications submitted on the
old application for employment (Z83) will not be considered. All fields in the Z83
application form must be completed in full, in a manner that allows a selection
committee to assess the quality of a candidate based on the information
provided in the form. It is therefore prudent that fields be completed by
applicants and signed, noting the importance of the declaration. South African
applicants need not to provide passport numbers. Candidate must respond
“Yes “or “No “to the question whether you are conducting business with the
state. If “Yes”, details thereof only shortlisted candidates will submit Declaration
form for conducting business with the state when shortlisted to the application.
It is acceptable for applicant to indicate “not applicable” or leave a blank to the
question “In the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you
immediately relinquish such business interest?” Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents but must submit
the completed and signed Z83 and detailed Curricula Vitae. The
communication from HR of the Department regarding the requirement for
certified document will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidate for a post will be required to submit certified documents
on or before the day of the interview following communication from HR.
Applications received after the closing date will NOT be considered or
accepted. Correspondence is limited to short-listed candidates only; should
you not hear from us within six weeks of the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. Non-RSA citizens/permanent resident permit holders
must submit a copy only when shortlisted. Should you be in possession of a
foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from
the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Should you not hear from the
Department within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please consider your application to be unsuccessful. The Department reserves
the right not to fill and/or make an appointment to any of the advertised posts.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical skills that are generic requirements and
the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Further, personnel
suitability checks, including security vetting, competency assessment will be
conducted, as such transfer/promotion/appointment will made subject to
positive outcomes of personnel suitability checks. Successful candidates shall
be required to enter into performance agreement within three (3) months of
assuming their duties in the Department, and within one (1) month of the date
of their appointment conclude the prescribed contract of employment.
Designated employees shall be required to disclose their financial interest
within 30 days after assumption of duty. Appointments will only be made on the
first notch of the advertised salary level. Note that in terms of the Protection of
Personal Information Act, 2021, the Department will ensure the protection of
applicants ‘personal information and only collect, use and retain applicants’
personal information for the purposes of recruitment and selection processes.
The Department shall safeguard such personal information against access by
unauthorised persons, unlawful disclosure, or breaches. The Department is an
equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. In the filling of these posts,
95
It is the intention of the Department to promote representivity in the Public
Service through the filling of this position and the candidature of persons whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive
preference as the objectives of section 195 of the Constitution of the Republic
of South Africa and the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) will be
taken into consideration
OTHER POST
POST 18/108 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SOCIAL GOVERNANCE AND REGULATIONS
FOR THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN (REF NO: DWYPD/007/2026)
Re-advertisement, Applicants who previously applied for the post are
encouraged not to re-apply, as their applications will still be considered.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate and Bachelor’s
degree (NQF Level 7) in Social or Human Sciences, Development Studies, or
Social Work. A valid driver’s licence is required; however, this requirement is
not applicable to persons with disabilities. In addition, applicants must have a
minimum of three (3) years’ supervisory experience in a related field.
Knowledge: Initiatives that promote women’s social justice, empowerment and
participation; Gender related policies and frameworks; Departmental policies,
system protocols; knowledge, understanding and practice of Batho Pele
Principles. Skills: Problem solving and decision making; Time management;
Planning and organising; Customer focus and responsiveness; Good report
writing, verbal and written communication skills; Computer Literacy (MS Office
Suite); Diversity awareness; Applied strategic thinking; Continuous
improvement; People management and development; Team leadership.
Secondary: Basic Budgeting and Financial Management; Project
management; Networking and building bonds; Impact and influence; Diversity
management. Personal Attributes: Ability to perform effectively under pressure;
Analytical thinking; Good interpersonal and communication; Results focused;
High emotional intelligence; Solutions oriented; Passion and drive; Honesty
and Integrity; Ability to maintain confidentiality of information.
DUTIES : Coordinate the development and implementation of the policies and
legislations on social justice, empowerment and transformation of Women:
Provide inputs in the drafting of new policies or legislative proposals that
promote social justice, Women’s empowerment, Gender equality and
transformation; Identify gaps or challenges on the existing policies and propose
amendments where possible; Conduct research and gender analysis to inform
policy content; Collect data to ensure proposed laws align with constitutional
provisions and international commitments; Attend briefings with stakeholders
on policies identified for implementation; Compile reports on implemented
programmes. Participate in the development and implementation of a
regulatory framework on social justice, empowerment and participation of
Women: Participate in the consultation with relevant departments regarding
the review of the Nation Strategic Plan on Gander based Violence and
Femicide and Gender machinery framework; Participate in the coordination of
designated provincial stakeholders to ensure the effective implementation of
the Nation Strategic Plan on Gender based Violence and Femicide and Gender
machinery framework. Coordinate Stakeholders: Develop, update and
maintain the database of stakeholders; Follow-up and ensure that the
stakeholders implement the recommended decisions by the structures;
Resolve queries referred by stakeholders and provide information where
necessary; Ensure that the stakeholders participate in the programme
implementation; Handle enquiries on GBV related issues. Support the process
of developing and implementing monitoring and evaluation systems: Collect
and collate information on programmes initiatives. Create data base and
generate information one stop shop models. Develop project reporting
templates. Coordinate reporting by stakeholders and DWYPD(Provincial) and
ensure the reports are submitted on time. Serve as secretariat support for the
programme and engagements with stakeholders: Provide administrative
support for the Unit. Provide logistical arrangement support for the unit and the
projects. Provide general office support to the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Nomsa Nabo, Telephone No: 072 525 0096
96
NOTE : Preference will be given to, Coloureds, Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : Recruitment01@dwypd.gov.za
97
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: EASTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
APPLICATION : Must be submitted only via the provincial e-Recruitment system available at:
https://ecprov.gov.za and/or at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za. The system is
available 24/7 throughout and closes at 23:59 on the closing date. To report
any challenges pertaining e-Recruitment System, send an email with your ID
Number, your profile e-Mail Address and the details of the issue to:
erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za; do not submit any CVs to this email address,
should you do so, your application will be regarded as lost and will not be
considered. Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-
Thurs and 08:00-16:00 on Fri). No Hand-Delivered/ No Emailed / No Faxed /
No Posted applications will be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 19 June 2026. No Late Applications Will Be Accepted
NOTE : Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not downloadable and therefore
not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via the e-recruitment
system will not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83 instead will be requested to
sign on interview day. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR on or before the
interview date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to
submit an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) on or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6) weeks
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification, financial/asset
record check, qualification/study verification and previous employment
verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to security clearance
processes. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. Misrepresentation in the application documents will
result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. The Department reserves the right not
to make appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Persons with disability and
people from previously disadvantaged groups are encouraged to apply. It is the
department’s objective to address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action
Measures in line with the Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable
representation across race and gender. In filling of these posts gender equity
and people living with disability will be highly considered. The Department
reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw advertised posts if by so doing,
the best interest of the department will be well served. (Females and People
with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). NB Please Note: It is the department’s objective to address the
Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the ECDOE EE
Plan and to achieve equitable representation across race and gender. In filling
of these posts gender equity and people living with disability will be highly
considered. The Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw
advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications). Enquiries must be directed to the specified
contact person. For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email:
erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/109 : CHIEF QUANTITY SURVEYOR (GRADE A - C) REF NO: DOE01/06/2026 (1
POST)
Unit: Physical Resource Planning
SALARY : R1 143 468 - R1 300 944.per annum (All-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion of 30% that
may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes state’s
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary.
CENTRE : Provincial Office - Zwelitsha
98
REQUIREMENTS : University degree (NQF 7) in Quantity Surveying and/or equivalent
qualification. Registered as a Professional Quantity Surveyor with the South
African Council for Quantity Surveying Professions (SACQSP): Valid driver’s
licence. Competences: Computer literacy. Minimum of Six years’ experience
post qualification. Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000 and
Regulations. PFMA/Division of Revenue Act /Treasury Regulations/Practice
Notes/ Instructions/Circulars/ Construction Procurement System.
Provincial/Departmental Supply Chain Management Policies. Promotion of
Access to Information Act of 2000. Promotion of Administrative Justice Act of
2000. Expanded Public Works Programme. Broad Based Black Empowerment
Act of 2003. Preferential Procurement Act of 2000 and Regulations.
Architectural Profession Act of 2000. Engineering Profession Act of 2000.
Quantity Surveying Profession Act of 2000. National Building Standards Act of
1977 and Regulations. Government Immovable Asset Management Act of
2007. Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations of 1993. Project
and Construction Management Professions Act of 2000. South African Schools
Act of 1996, Regulations and Guidelines. National Environmental Management
Act of 1998. Relevant Provincial Land Administration Legislation. ISO
standards. All different types and forms of construction contracts.
DUTIES : Perform final review and approvals or audits on quantity survey procedure. Co-
ordinate quantity survey efforts and integration across disciplines to ensure
seamless integration with current technology through the provision of
appropriate structures, systems and resources. Set quantity survey standards,
specifications and service levels according to organizational objectives to
ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor quantity survey efficiencies
according to organizational goals to direct or redirect quantity survey services
for the attainment of organizational objectives. Ensure availability and
management of funds to meet the MTEF objectives within the quantity survey
environment/services. Manage the operational capital project portfolio for the
operation to ensure effective resourcing according to organizational needs and
objectives. Manage the commercial added value of the discipline-related
programmes and projects. Facilitate the compilation of innovation proposals to
ensure validity and adherence to organizational principles. Allocate, monitor,
control expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow
management. Allocate, monitor and control resources. Compile risk logs
(database) and manage significant risk according to sound risk management
practice and organizational requirements. Provide technical specialist services
for the operation of quantity survey related matters to minimize possible risks
Manage and implement knowledge sharing initiatives in support of individual
development plans, operational requirements and return on investment.
Continuously monitor the exchange and protection of information between
operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge management
according to departmental objectives. Manage the development motivation and
utilization of human resources for the discipline to ensure competent
knowledge base for the continued success of quantity survey services
according to organizational needs and requirements. Manage subordinates’
key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance standards and
taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Sivuka Tel No: 040 608 4246
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: Vukile.tokwe@ecdoe.gov.za /
anele.rululu@ecdoe.gov.za
POST18/110 : CHIEF ARCHITECT REF NO: DOE02/06/2026 (2 POSTS)
Unit: Physical Resource Planning
SALARY : R1 143 468 - R1 300 944.per annum (All-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion of 30% that
may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes state’s
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary.
CENTRE : Provincial Office – Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : B degree in Architecture or relevant qualification. Six years post Qualification
architectural experience required. Valid driver’s license. Compulsory
registration with SACAP as a professional Architect. Competencies: Willing to
adapt to working schedule in accordance with office requirements. Knowledge:
Architectural design and analysis knowledge Architectural principles. Project
Management Computer-aided engineering applications, Research and
development Public Finance Management Act, Occupational Health and
99
Safety Act, Supply Chain Management, Contract Management, Knowledge of
and experience in working in a High-Performance Centre environment to
manage project delivery; Knowledge of and experience in the use of
dashboards to track project progress. Knowledge of and experience in the
development, implementation and oversight of recovery plans when projects
are lagging.
DUTIES : Coordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding architecture. Ensure
adherence and compliance to legal, safety and health requirements. Provide
architectural advice and technical support in the evaluation of solutions. Ensure
the adoption of technical and quality strategies. Develop architectural related
policies, methods and practices. Provide solution on non-compliance and
failure of designs Review plans, drawings, specifications and estimates
accomplished by building designers and/or sub-professional personnel.
Ensure adherence to the requirements of professional registration. Mentor and
train candidate architects and related technical and administrative personnel
to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound architectural
principles and code of practice. Supervise architectural work and processes.
Administer performance management and development Keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research on architecture to improve expertise
Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on architectural-related matters. Manage
resources and prepare and consolidate inputs for facilitation of resource
utilisation. Ensure adherence to regulations and procedures for procurement
and personnel administration. Monitor and control expenditure. Report on
expenditure and service delivery.
ENQUIRES : Mr. S Sivuka Tel No: (040) 608 4246
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: Vukile.tokwe@ecdoe.gov.za/
anele.rululu@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/111 : CHIEF QUANTITY SURVEYOR (GRADE A) REF NO: DOE03/06/2026 (1
POST)
Unit: Infrastructure Delivery Management (Dora Funded)
SALARY : R1 143 468 - R1 300 944.per annum (All-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion of 30% that
may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes state’s
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary.
CENTRE : Provincial Office – Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : University degree (NQF 7) in Quantity Surveying and/or equivalent
qualification. Registered as a Professional Quantity Surveyor with the South
African Council for Quantity Surveying Professions (SACQSP): Valid driver’s
licence. Computer literacy. Minimum of Six years’ experience post qualification.
Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000 and Regulations.
PFMA/Division of Revenue Act /Treasury Regulations/Practice Notes/
Instructions/Circulars/ Construction Procurement System.
Provincial/Departmental Supply Chain Management Policies. Promotion of
Access to Information Act of 2000. Promotion of Administrative Justice Act of
2000. Expanded Public Works Programme. Broad Based Black Empowerment
Act of 2003. Preferential Procurement Act of 2000 and Regulations.
Architectural Profession Act of 2000. Engineering Profession Act of 2000.
Quantity Surveying Profession Act of 2000. National Building Standards Act of
1977 and Regulations. Government Immovable Asset Management Act of
2007. Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations of 1993. Project
and Construction Management Professions Act of 2000. South African Schools
Act of 1996, Regulations and Guidelines. National Environmental Management
Act of 1998. Relevant Provincial Land Administration Legislation. ISO
standards. All different types and forms of construction contracts.
DUTIES : Infrastructure Programme and Project Planning in line with IDMS. Prepare the
Procurement Strategy, Infrastructure Programme Management Plan (IPMP)
and updating of the plan. Prepare the infrastructure budget and Final Project
List. Prepare the Packages/Individual Project Briefs; presenting these to the
Implementing Agent (IA) – referred to as Project Execution Plan v1. Manage
the preparation of Packages/Individual Project Briefs for projects that are not
allocated to an Implementing Agent (IA). Participate in the procurement of
Professional Service Providers and Contractors, including the preparation and
approval of Bid Specifications and evaluations of tenders as member of the
Supply Chain Management Committees in Public Works and/or relevant SCM
Committees of Alternative IAs and Provincial Department of Education.
100
Manage adherence to Occupational Health and Safety and Quality Assurance
standards. Infrastructure Programme and Project Implementation and
Monitoring. Monitor the implementation of Programmes and Projects by the
Implementing Agents (IA) and the adherence to the Service Delivery
Agreements. Manage project implementation of projects that are not allocated
to an Implementing Agent (IA). Review and sign-off on the Infrastructure
Programme Implementation Plan (IPIP) as prepared by the Implementing
Agent [IA]. Review and sign-off on the Project Execution Plans Versions 2 – 7
prepared by the Implementing Agent (IA) Review and recommend Variation
Orders in terms of contract management practice and financial implications in
collaboration with professionals in the Directorate Physical Resources
Planning. Recommend authorisation of payments in line with the conditions of
the appointments, contract management practices and within financial
delegations. Develop and Approve Project Stage reports & designs, in
accordance with strategic decision-making points as defined in the Provincial
Infrastructure Delivery Framework. (IDMS). Manage the updating of
project/programme documentation and information and submit all built
environment documentation to the Deputy Director Finance. Manage the
interface between the end-user/community structures and Implementing Agent
(IA). Prepare and submit progress reports (financial and non-financial
indicators). Maintenance Projects. Assess departmental projects that qualify
for departmental funding assessed. Manage the implementation of day-today,
routine and emergency maintenance projects funded by department. Provide
guidance to the preparation of maintenance plans. Provide training to districts
and schools in terms of day-to-day, routine and emergency maintenance plans
and projects. On an annual basis, evaluate day-today, routine and emergency
projects implemented by Districts and Schools. Monitor Section 21 allocations
for maintenance. Monitor preparation of disaster management plans.
Infrastructure Project Commissioning. Coordinate and participate in project
commissioning, including site visits. Review the School Maintenance Plan and
budget on completion of projects. Collect and update NEIMS and EFMS
information [if applicable] in terms of Technical Condition Assessments on
completion of projects. Orientate users in terms of the optimal usage of
Facilities. Infrastructure Programme and Project Evaluation. Review
infrastructure projects and programmes in line with the built environment
norms, standards and legislative requirements. Manage the preparation of the
project close out reports. Manage and participate in Post Project and Post
Occupancy Evaluation exercises. Provide feedback to Directorate Physical
Resources Planning on functional and technical norms and standards that
should be updated from an architectural perspective. Participate in the
continuous improvement of best practices, standardised processes and
procedures, software applications and tools. Research/literature studies to
keep up with new technologies, viability and feasibility of the geographical
information management options for the Department including interaction with
relevant professional development boards/councils. Study professional
journals and publications to stay abreast of new developments. Monitor and
study the education sector, legal frameworks, standards changes and policy
frameworks. Engage in relevant continuous professional development
activities [tools and techniques] as prescribed and/or required. Update the
Infrastructure comprehensive planning framework of Department in terms of
research findings, new technology and changes in the institutional
environment. Interact with relevant Professional Bodies/Councils. People
Management. Undertake planning for future human resources needs. Maintain
discipline. Manage performance and development of development of
employees. Undertake human resources and other related administrative
functions. Establish and maintain effective and efficient communication
arrangements. Develop and manage the operational plan. Plan and allocate
work. Develop and implement processes to promote control of work. Serve on
transversal task teams as required. Implement quality control of work delivered
by employees. Financial Management. Monitor that infrastructure projects are
planned within available funds. Monitor application of costs norms. Monitor
expenditure on infrastructure projects within budgets. Control cost and scope
variances on infrastructure projects.
ENQUIRES : Mr. S Sivuka Tel No: (040) 608 4246
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: Vukile.tokwe@ecdoe.gov.za/
anele.rululu@ecdoe.gov.za
101
POST 18/112 : CHIEF ENGINEER ELECTRICAL REF NO: DOE04/06/2026
Unit: Infrastructure Delivery
SALARY : R1 317 108 - R1 504 797.per annum (All-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion of 30% that
may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes state’s
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary).
CENTRE : Provincial Office – Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF 7) in Electrical Engineering. A minimum of six years post
qualification experience as a registered Professional Engineer/Technologist. A
valid Driver’s License. Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional
Engineer/Technologist Competencies: Knowledge of Act of 1977 and
Regulations. Knowledge of Engineering Profession Act, 2000, Construction
Industry Development Board Act of 2000 and Regulations. Council for Built
Environment Act of 2000. Knowledge of PFMA/DORA/Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of All different contract options for infrastructure projects.
Knowledge of Provincial/Departmental Supply Chain Management Policies.
Promotion of Access to Information Act of 2000. Knowledge of Broad Based
Black Empowerment Act of 2003. Knowledge of Preferential Procurement Act
of 2000 and Regulations. Knowledge of Public Service Act of 1994 and
Regulations of 2001. Knowledge of Government Immovable Asset
Management Act of 2007. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act
of 1993 and Regulations. Skills: Strategic capability and leadership. Problem
solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication and
Computer skills. People management skills. Planning and organising. Conflict
management and negotiation skills. Attributes: Programme and project
management. Engineering legal and operational compliance. Engineering
operational communication. Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills
and knowledge. Engineering principles. Mobile equipment and operating skills.
Technical consulting. Professional judgment. Research and Development.
Creating a high-performance culture.
DUTIES : Perform final review and approvals of audits on new engineering designs
according to design principles or theory. Research the needs of the relevant
education institutions. Co-ordinate design efforts and integration across
disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current technology. Monitor
current deployed technology. Pioneer new engineering services. Manage the
execution of maintenance strategy through the provision of appropriate
structures, systems and resources. Set engineering maintenance standards,
specifications and service levels according to organisational objectives to
ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor maintenance efficiencies
according to organisational goals to direct or redirect engineering services for
the attainment of organisational objectives. Allocate, control, monitor and
report on all resources. Compile risk logs and manage significant risk according
to sound risk management practice and organizational requirements. Provide
technical consulting services for the operation on engineering related matters
to minimise possible engineering risks. Manage and implement knowledge
sharing initiatives e.g. short-term assignments and secondments within and
across operations, in support of individual development plans, operational
requirements and return on investment. Monitor the exchange and protection
of information between operations and individuals to ensure effective
knowledge management according to departmental objectives. Ensure the
availability and management of funds to meet the MTEF objectives within the
engineering environment/services. Manage the operational capital project
portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to
organisational needs and objectives. Manage the commercial value add of the
discipline-related programmes and projects. Facilitate the compilation of
innovation proposals to ensure validity and adherence to organisational
principles. Allocate, control and monitor expenditure according to budget to
ensure sufficient cash flow management. Manage the development motivation
and utilization of human resources for the discipline to ensure competent
knowledge base for the continued success of quantity survey services
according to organizational needs and requirements. Manage subordinates’
key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance standards and
taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental objectives
ENQUIRES : Mr. S Sivuka Tel No: (040) 608 4246
102
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: Vukile.tokwe@ecdoe.gov.za /
anele.rululu@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/113 : ELECTRICAL ENGINEER – PRODUCTION (GRADE A) REF NO:
DOE05/06/2026
Unit: Infrastructure Delivery
SALARY : R914 517 - R1 376 199.per annum. All-Inclusive Package Remuneration). The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion of
30% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes state’s
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary). The offer is based on recognition of experience after obtaining
registration. (Proof of recognized experience will be requested for shortlisted
applicants).
CENTRE : Provincial Office – Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF 7) in Electrical Engineering. Registered as Professional
Engineer/Technologist with ECSA. Minimum of 3 years’ experience in the field.
Valid driver’s license (except for people with disability). Competencies: People
101 Management and Empowerment, Programme & Project Management,
Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management,
Client orientation & Customer focus, Problem Solving & Analysis,
Communication. Knowledge & Skills PFMA/Treasury Regulations/Practice
Notes/ Instructions/Circulars. Provincial/Departmental Supply Chain
Management Policies. National Building Standards Act of 1977 and
Regulations. Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993 and Regulations.
Government Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007. South African
Schools Act of 1996, Regulations and Guidelines
DUTIES : Provide inputs to technical and functional norms and standards from an
engineering perspective to be issued in terms of the Provincial Education
Facilities Guidelines and National Education norms & standards. Monitor that
infrastructure projects implemented by Implementing Agent(s) comply with
approved engineering functional and technical norms and standards and that
the planning and design are according to sound engineering principles and
code of practice. Prepare reports stating the advisability, desirability, impact
and legality of proposals for innovative service delivery mechanisms. Compile
briefing documentation and specifications from an engineering perspective.
Investigate electrical engineering installations and equipment, undertake
design work and implement corrective measures, where necessary. Provide
electrical engineering inputs to implement projects successfully. Provide
electrical engineering professional and technical advice in the form of verbal
and written advice, reports, calculations, specifications and drawings. Provide
inputs to infrastructure assessments from an electrical engineering
perspective. Provide engineering inputs to maintenance projects from an
electrical engineering perspective. Research/literature studies to keep up with
new technologies, viability and feasibility of the geographical information
management options for the Department includes interaction with relevant
professional development boards/councils. schooling system
ENQUIRES : Mr. S Sivuka Tel No: (040) 608 4246
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: Vukile.tokwe@ecdoe.gov.za /
anele.rululu@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/114 : CHIEF CIVIL / STRUCTURAL ENGINEER REF NO: DOE06/06/2026
Unit: Infrastructure Delivery
SALARY : R1 317 108 – R1 504 797 per annum. (All-Inclusive Package Remuneration).
The package includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion
of 30% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes
state’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary). The offer is based on recognition of experience after obtaining
registration. (Proof of recognized experience will be requested for shortlisted
applicants).
CENTRE : Provincial Office – Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF 7) in Civil Engineering or Structural Engineering. Minimum of
6 years post qualification relevant engineering experience as a registered
professional Engineer/Technologist. Must have a valid driver’s license.
Compulsory Registration with ECSA as professional Engineer/Technologist.
Knowledge: Knowledge in monitor and study the education sector, legal
103
frameworks, standards changes and policy frameworks. Engage in relevant
continuous professional Tools and techniques development activities [tools and
techniques]as prescribed and or required. Skills: Problem, customer focus and
responsiveness, Communication skills, computer conflict management skills
Planning and organizing solving, negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Portfolio Management: Update B5 project list and ECE (annually). Undertake
post project evaluations ascertain performance of PSPs and Contractors.
Contribute to the development of the road Asset Management Policy, strategy
and Plan (updated annually). Contribute to the infrastructure End Of the year
Evaluation Report. Programme and Project Management: Prepare tender
documentation. Prepare technical tender evaluation report. Manage contracts.
Undertake site visits. Assess invoice and claims for accuracy. Prepare site
assessment reports Risk Management: Identify risks during project
construction stage. Describe and assess all risks in terms of event, cause and
possible outcomes. Determine actions to mitigate risks with clear responsibility
and timeline frames. Prepar3e the risks register with the mitigation on project
and contact levels. People Management: Maintain discipline. Manage
performance and development of employees. Establish and maintain effective
and efficient communication arrangement. Plan and allocate work. Develop
and implement processes to promote control of work. Manage. and develop
people (consultants and staff). Knowledge Management; Study professional
journals and publications to stay abreast of new development. Mentor and
study the education sector, legal frameworks standards changes and policy
frameworks. Engage in relevant continuous professional development
activates [tools and techniques]as prescribed and /or required. Interact with
ECSA and SAICE.
ENQUIRES : Mr. S Sivuka Tel No: (040) 608 4246
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: Vukile.tokwe@ecdoe.gov.za /
anele.rululu@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/115 : MECHANICAL ENGINEER/PROJECT MANAGER (REF NO:
DOE07/06/2026 (1 POST)
Directorate: Infrastructure Delivery Management (Dora Funded)
SALARY : R914 517 – R1 376 199.per annum (All-Inclusive Package Remuneration). The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion of
30% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes state’s
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary). The offer is based on recognition of experience after obtaining
registration. (Proof of recognized experience will be requested for shortlisted
applicants).
CENTRE : Provincial Office – Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF 7) in Mechanical Engineering; Registered as a Professional
Engineer/Technologist with ECSA or Professional Construction Project
Manager with the South African Council for Project and Construction
Management Professions (SACPCMP); Valid driver’s licence; Computer
literacy. Competencies: Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000
and Regulations; PFMA/Division of Revenue Act /Treasury
Regulations/Practice Notes/ Instructions/Circulars/Construction Procurement
System; Provincial/Departmental Supply Chain Management Policies;
Promotion of Access to Information Act of 2000; Promotion of Administrative
Justice Act of 2000; Expanded Public Works Programme; Broad Based Black
Empowerment Act of 2003; Preferential Procurement Act of 2000 and
Regulations; Architectural Profession Act of 2000; Engineering Profession Act
of 2000; Quantity Surveying Profession Act of 2000; National Building
Standards Act of 1977 and Regulations; Government Immovable Asset
Management Act of 2007; Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations
of 1993; Project and Construction Management Professions Act of 2000; South
African Schools Act of 1996, Regulations and Guidelines; National
Environmental Management Act of 1998.; Relevant Provincial Land
Administration Legislation; ISO standards; All different types and forms of
construction contracts.
DUTIES : Infrastructure Programme and Project Planning in line with IDMS. Prepare the
Procurement Strategy, Infrastructure Programme Management Plan [IPMP]
and updating of the plan. Prepare the infrastructure budget and Final Project
List. Prepare the Packages/Individual Project Briefs; presenting these to the
Implementing Agent [IA] – referred to as Project Execution Plan v1. Manage
104
the preparation of Packages/Individual Project Briefs for projects that are not
allocated to an Implementing Agent (IA). Participate in the procurement of
Professional Service Providers and Contractors, including the preparation and
approval of Bid Specifications and evaluations of tenders as member of the
Supply Chain Management Committees in Public Works and/or relevant SCM
Committees of Alternative IAs and Provincial Department of Education.
Manage adherence to Occupational Health and Safety and Quality Assurance
standards. Infrastructure Programme and Project Implementation and
Monitoring. Monitor the implementation of Programmes and Projects by the
Implementing Agents (IA) and the adherence to the Service Delivery
Agreements. Manage project implementation of projects that are not allocated
to an Implementing Agent (IA) Review and sign-off on the Infrastructure
Programme Implementation Plan (IPIP) as prepared by the Implementing
Agent [IA]. Review and sign-off on the Project Execution Plans Versions 2 – 7
prepared by the Implementing Agent (IA) Review and recommend Variation
Orders in terms of contract management practice and financial implications in
collaboration with professionals in the Directorate Physical Resources
Planning. Recommend authorisation of payments in line with the conditions of
the appointments, contract management practices and within financial
delegations. Develop and Approve Project Stage reports & designs, in
accordance with strategic decision-making points as defined in the Provincial
Infrastructure Delivery Framework. (IDMS). Manage the updating of
project/programme documentation and information and submit all built
environment documentation to the Deputy Director Finance. Manage the
interface between the end-user/community structures and Implementing Agent
(IA) Prepare and submit progress reports [financial and non-financial
indicators]. Maintenance Projects. Assess departmental projects that qualify for
departmental funding assessed. Manage the implementation of day-to-day,
routine and emergency maintenance projects funded by department. Provide
guidance to the preparation of maintenance plans. Provide training to districts
and schools in terms of day-to-day, routine and emergency maintenance plans
and projects. On an annual basis, evaluate day-to-day, routine and emergency
projects implemented by Districts and Schools. Monitor Section 21 allocations
for maintenance. Monitor preparation of disaster management plans.
Infrastructure Project Commissioning. Coordinate and participate in project
commissioning, including site visits. Review the School Maintenance Plan and
budget on completion of projects. Collect and update NEIMS and EFMS
information [if applicable] in terms of Technical Condition Assessments on
completion of projects. Orientate users in terms of the optimal usage of
Facilities. Infrastructure Programme and Project Evaluation. Review
infrastructure projects and programmes in line with the built environment
norms, standards and legislative requirements. Manage the preparation of the
project close out reports. Manage and participate in Post Project and Post
Occupancy Evaluation exercises. Provide feedback to Directorate Physical
Resources Planning on functional and technical norms and standards that
should be updated from an architectural perspective. Participate in the
continuous improvement of best practices, standardised processes and
procedures, software applications and tools. Research/literature studies to
keep up with new technologies, viability and feasibility of the geographical
information management options for the Department including interaction with
relevant professional development boards/councils. Study professional
journals and publications to stay abreast of new developments. Monitor and
study the education sector, legal frameworks, standards changes and policy
frameworks. Engage in relevant continuous professional development
activities [tools and techniques] as prescribed and/or required. Update the
Infrastructure comprehensive planning framework of Department in terms of
research findings, new technology and changes in the institutional
environment. Interact with relevant Professional Bodies/Councils.
ENQUIRES : Mr. S.Sivuka Tel No: (040) 608 4246
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: Vukile.tokwe@ecdoe.gov.za /
anele.rululu@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/116 : EDUCATION PSYCHOLOGIST: ESSS (GRADE 1) REF NO: DOE08/06/2026
Directorate: Education Social Support Services
SALARY : R907 617 - R995 595 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo West
105
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate, recognized master’s degree in educational psychology and
current Registration with the HPCSA as an Educational Psychologist.
Knowledge and understanding of all major education and psychology
legislation and policies (White Paper 6: Special Needs Education, National
Curriculum Statement, South African Schools Act, National Education Policy
Screening, Identification, Assessment and Support (SIAS) and HPCSA Code
of Ethics). Good communication skills (verbal and written) and interpersonal
skills. Computer skills. Conflict resolution skills, networking skills and excellent
presentation skills. Ability to work under pressure and in a team. A valid driver’s
license. Honesty and integrity, Professionalism, Self – driven, Teamwork. Good
communication skills (written and verbal skills) and a good command of English
language. Knowledge/ Skills: Public Service Act, PFMA, PMDS, Educator’s
Employment Act, Children’s Act, White Paper No 6 on Inclusive Education,
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Educational Public Service Leadership,
Strategic Planning and Transformation, Education Management Development,
Research and Development, Management of Diversity, Policy Formulation and
Implementation, Leadership skills, Research skills, Co-ordination, Presentation
and Facilitation skills, Management skills, Interpersonal skills, Planning and
Organizational skills, Problem solving skills. Knowledge of the Education
Sector will be added advantage.
DUTIES : Train teachers, parents and support staff in the early identification of
psychological barriers to learning and development. Train teachers, parents
and support staff to manage learners who have been identified as experiencing
psychological barriers to learning and development (e.g. Individual Support
Plan (ISP) / Group Support Plan (GSP). Develop and implement preventative
programmes for learners, parents and School Governing Body (SGBs) that
address and / or prevent psychological barriers to learning and development.
Implementation of Inclusive Policies including the Screening, Identification,
Assessment and Support (SIAS) Policy. Report quarterly on the
implementation of psychological programmes for early identification of and
interventions relating to barriers for learning and special needs to the Senior
Education Psychologist. Provide specialized psychological support to
strengthen District- and School-Based Support Teams (DBSTs/SBSTs).
Participate in inter- and intra-sectoral networks and collaborations. Maintain
annual registration and Continued Professional Development (CPD) training
according to HPCSA requirements and conduct psychological interventions
and research in accordance with guidelines for professional practice of the
HPCSA and the Professional Board for Psychology (Compliance to legislation
e.g., Health Professions Act, Mental Health Act, Children’s Act, etc.). Conduct
all relevant administrative activities relating to the core mandate of this position.
Attend district management meetings and inter-departmental meetings,
subsistence and travelling claims. Performance management (PMDS),
Database administration, leave administration, Attending to emails, Budget
(PFMA), Procurement, SASAMS, DDD.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Putter (Tel: 040 608 4200)
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/117 : EDUCATION PSYCHOLOGIST (GRADE 1)
SALARY : R907 617 - R995 592 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Ref No: DOE09/06/2026 (Alfred Nzo West – Mt Ayliff CMC)
Ref No: DOE09/06/2026 (Chris Hani East – Cofimvaba CMC)
Ref No: DOE09/06/2026 (Buffalo City Municipality – Qonce CMC)
Ref No: DOE09/06/2026 (Amathole East – Dutywa CMC)
Ref No: DOE09/06/2026 (Sarah Baartman – Humansdorp CMC)
Ref No: DOE09/06/2026 (OR Tambo Coastal – Lusikisiki CMC)
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised Master’s Degree in Educational Psychology or relevant;
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Independent Psychologist; and relevant experience, knowledge, and skills in
education and psychological services. A minimum of one year of experience or
relevant clinical experience as a Psychologist. Applicants must have a sound
understanding of education and psychology legislation and policies, including
the Public Service Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Performance
Management and Development System (PMDS), Children’s Act, White Paper
6, the Policy on Screening, Identification, Assessment and Support (SIAS), and
the South African Schools Act (SASA), particularly Section 12. Strong
communication skills (both written and verbal) and excellent command of the
106
English language are essential. Skills: Therapeutic assessment and
techniques; Multi-disciplinary teamwork; Preventative and developmental
approach; Development of training programmes for the SBST; Report writing;
Analysis of data and trends; Communication, consultation and facilitation skills;
Computer literacy; Presentation skills and organising and planning.
DUTIES : The District Educational Psychologist will be strategically deployed to provide
targeted interventions and support at a cluster of special schools for two days
per week. The other three days will be allocated to district-wide educational
psychology functions, ensuring comprehensive support across the district. The
Educational Psychologists will serve as a member of the District-based Support
Team (DBST), providing psychological services within the District Circuit
Management Centre (CMC) and/or school context. Duties include supporting
the implementation of the SIAS policy by identifying and assisting learners
experiencing barriers to learning and development. Services must align with
the Scope of the Profession of Psychologists as outlined by the HPCSA (2008).
The incumbent will be responsible for delivering a range of psychological and
therapeutic interventions, such as psychotherapy, counselling, trauma
debriefing, and making appropriate referrals to specialists. Furthermore, the
psychologist will design and implement educationally responsive programmes
to address learner diversity, including parental and educator guidance, targeted
interventions to address barriers to learning, and recommendations for
assessment accommodations. The role also includes maintaining annual
HPCSA registration, complying with Continuing Professional Development
(CPD) requirements, and conducting psychological research and interventions
in accordance with applicable legislation such as the Health Professions Act,
Mental Health Act, and Children’s Act, as well as the ethical guidelines set by
the HPCSA and the Professional Board for Psychology. Driver’s licence is
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Putter (Tel: 040 608 4200)
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/118 : EDUCATION PSYCHOLOGIST: ESSS (GRADE 1)
SALARY : R907 617 - R995 592. per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Ref No: DOE15/06/2025 (Northern Light Special School)
Ref No: DOE16/06/2025 (Khayalethu Special School)
Ref No: DOE17/06/2025 (ST Patricks Special School)
Ref No: DOE18/06/2025 (Khanyisa Cala Special School)
Ref No: DOE19/06/2025 (King Ndlovuyezwe Ndamase Special School)
Ref No: DOE20/06/2025 (MT Fletcher Special School)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate, recognized master’s degree in educational psychology or
relevant and current Registration with the HPCSA as a Registered
Psychologist. Knowledge and understanding of all major education and
psychology legislation and policies (White Paper 6: Special Needs Education,
National Curriculum Statement, South African Schools Act, National Education
Policy Screening, Identification, Assessment and Support [SIAS] and HPCSA
Code of Ethics). Good communication skills (verbal and written) and
interpersonal skills. Computer skills. Conflict resolution skills, networking skills
and excellent presentation skills. Ability to work under pressure and in a team.
A valid driver’s license. Honesty and integrity, Professionalism, Self – driven,
Teamwork. Good communication skills (written and verbal skills) and a good
command of English language. Knowledge/ Skills: Public Service Act, PFMA,
PMDS, Educator’s Employment Act, Children’s Act, White Paper No 6 on
Inclusive Education, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Educational Public
Service Leadership, Strategic Planning and Transformation, Education
Management Development, Research and Development, Management of
Diversity, Policy Formulation and Implementation, Leadership skills, Research
skills, Co-ordination, Presentation and Facilitation skills, Management skills,
Interpersonal skills, Planning and Organizational skills, Problem solving skills.
Knowledge of the Education Sector will be added advantage.
DUTIES : Train teachers, parents and support staff in the early identification of
psychological barriers to learning and development. Perform outreach service
twice a day to the neighboring schools. Train teachers, parents and support
staff to manage learners who have been identified as experiencing
psychological barriers to learning and development (e.g. Individual Support
Plan (ISP) / Group Support Plan (GSP). Develop and implement preventative
programmes for learners, parents and School Governing Body (SGBs) that
107
address and / or prevent psychological barriers to learning and development.
Implementation of Inclusive Policies including the Screening, Identification,
Assessment and Support (SIAS) Policy. Report quarterly on the
implementation of psychological programmes for early identification of and
interventions relating to barriers for learning and special needs to the Senior or
District Education Psychologist. Provide specialized psychological support to
strengthen District- and School-Based Support Teams (DBSTs/SBSTs).
Participate in inter- and intra-sectoral networks and collaborations. Maintain
annual registration and Continued Professional Development (CPD) training
according to HPCSA requirements and conduct psychological interventions
and research in accordance with guidelines for professional practice of the
HPCSA and the Professional Board for Psychology (Compliance to legislation
e.g., Health Professions Act, Mental Health Act, Children’s Act, etc.). Conduct
all relevant administrative activities relating to the core mandate of this position.
Attend school and district management meetings and inter-departmental
meetings. QMS, Database administration, leave administration, Attending to
emails, Budget of the school (PFMA), Procurement, SASAMS, DDD.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Putter (Tel: 040 608 4200). For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email:
erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/119 : EDUCATION THERAPIST SPECIALISTS (SPEECH AND LANGUAGE) -
GRADE 1 REF NO: DOE21/06/2026
Directorate: Education Social Support Services
SALARY : R664 410 – R735 930.per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo Inland
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor's Degree in Speech-Language Therapy that allows for registration
with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA). Current
registration as a Speech-Language Therapist with the HPCSA is required, and
proof of this registration must be provided. Applicants should have at least 5
years of relevant experience as a Speech-Language Therapist following their
community service. Experience as an Education Therapist will be considered
an added advantage. A valid driver's license is required. Knowledge: Inclusive
Education (IE) policies (White Paper 6); Screening, Identification, Assessment
and Support (SIAS) policy; Guidelines on the development of Full-
service/Inclusive Schools; Guidelines on the development of Special Schools
as Resource Centres; Care and Support for Teaching and Learning (CSTL);
Integrated School Health Policy. Skills: Therapeutic assessment and
techniques; multi-disciplinary teamwork; Preventative and developmental
approach; Development of training programmes; Report writing; Analysis of
data and trends; Therapeutic research methodology; Communication,
consultation and facilitation skills; Computer literacy; Presentation skills and
organising and planning.
DUTIES : To provide therapeutic and educational services to Public Ordinary and Public
Special Schools within the Education District. Implement therapeutic capacity-
building programmes for early identification of interventions relating to barriers
to learning. Train educators, parents and support staff in the early identification
of learning barriers particularly barriers to accessing the curriculum.; Conduct
assessments; provide short term curriculum interventions to learners
experiencing barriers to learning. Provide specialized therapeutic support to
strengthen District and School-based Support Teams (DBSTs/SBSTs).
Collaborate as multi-disciplinary teams with DBST to support learners
experiencing therapeutic barriers to learning. Provide therapeutic support
advisory services to SBST. Provide direct therapeutic support services to
learners when necessary. Monitor support progammes for learners with high
level needs referred and not yet placed in Special Schools or High-Level
Support Programmes. Conduct discipline specific research (Speech and
Language) and gather information to identify trends and address these needs
within the district. Participate in inter- and intra-sectoral networks and
collaborations. Collaborate on therapeutic support matters with multi-
disciplinary teams at the Special Schools / Resource Centres and Full-Service
Schools / Inclusive Schools to include learners who experience curriculum
barriers to learning. Provide/manage professional supervision of the therapists
in Public Special Schools within the District. Monitor and support the process
of assessment, reporting, referrals and placement of learners according to
levels of need. Monitor and support the implementation of administration- and
record-keeping processes. Ensure the compliance of Therapists in the special
108
schools to the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) Continuous
Professional Development (CPD) policy. Report on the implementation of
therapeutic support intervention programmes for early identification of barriers
to learning, therapeutic participation in and contributions to inter- and intra-
sectoral networks, therapeutic interventions. Monitor and manage assistive
devices
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Putter (Tell: 040 608 4200)
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/120 : EDUCATION THERAPIST (SPEECH AND LANGUAGE): SCHOOL BASED
(GRADE 1)
SALARY : R413 121 – R472 359 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Ref No: DOE22/06/2026 (Lingomsolethu Special School)
Ref No: DOE23/06/2026 (Khanyisa Cala)
Ref No: DOE24/06/2026 (Antos Special School)
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Speech-Language Therapy: A recognized Bachelor's degree in
Speech-Language Pathology/Therapy from an accredited institution. HPCSA
Registration: Current and valid registration as a Speech-Language Therapist
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) is mandatory.
One Year of Relevant Experience: A minimum of one year of experience or
relevant clinical experience as a Speech-Language Therapist. Inclusive
Education (IE) policies (White Paper 6); Screening, Identification, Assessment
and Support (SIAS) policy; Special Schools as Resource Centres; and
Integrated School Health Policy. Functionality of SBSTs and DBSTs. Inclusive
Education (IE) policies (White Paper 6); Screening, Identification, Assessment
and Support (SIAS) policy; Special Schools as Resource Centres; and
Integrated School Health Policy. Functionality of SBSTs and DBSTs.
Therapeutic assessment and techniques; Multi-disciplinary teamwork;
Preventative and developmental approach; Development of training
programmes for the SBST; Report writing; Analysis of data and trends;
Communication, consultation and facilitation skills; Computer literacy;
Presentation skills and organising and planning.
DUTIES : To conduct thorough assessments of learners' speech, language, and
communication difficulties, including evaluation of speech sounds, language
comprehension and expression, fluency, and voice in the special schools. To
conduct outreach services to Full-Service and Public Ordinary Schools to
extend therapeutic support. Administer formal and informal assessments and
conduct screenings for learners to identify needs. Develop and implement
individualized and group Speech-Language Therapy plans for learners in
public special schools and public ordinary schools. Prescribe, issue, and
maintain ppropriate assistive devices to support communication. Provide
relevant information about therapeutic programs to internal and external
stakeholders, including School-Based Support Teams, District-Based Support
Teams, and parents. Assist in the appropriate placement of learners within
special schools based on their communication needs. Ensure strict compliance
with the Code of Ethics of the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) in all aspects of practice. Oversee effective administrative practices
related to Speech and Language Therapy interventions. Analyse and interpret
information to make decisions regarding the need for therapeutic intervention,
engage in multi-disciplinary team discussions and make recommendations
and/or referrals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Putter (Tell: 040 608 4200)
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/121 : EDUCATION THERAPIST - AUDIOLOGIST: SIVE SPECIAL SCOOL
(GRADE 1) REF NO: DOE25/06/2025
SALARY : R413 121 – R472 359.per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo West
REQUIREMENTS : RVQ 13/14 qualification in Audiology as recognised by SAQA. Registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Audiologist.
Registration with the South African Council for Educators (SACE). None after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
respect of RSA qualified therapists who performed Community Service, as
required in South Africa. One-year relevant experience after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in respect of foreign
109
qualified therapists, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa.A valid driver's license is required. Knowledge:
Inclusive Education (IE) policies (White Paper 6); Screening, Identification,
Assessment and Support (SIAS) policy; Guidelines on the development of Full-
service/Inclusive Schools; Guidelines on the development of Special Schools
as Resource Centres; Care and Support for Teaching and Learning (CSTL);
Integrated School Health Policy. Skills: Therapeutic assessment and
techniques; multi-disciplinary teamwork; Preventative and developmental
approach; Development of training programmes; Report writing; Analysis of
data and trends; Therapeutic research methodology; Communication,
consultation and facilitation skills; Computer literacy; Presentation skills and
organising and planning.
DUTIES : Assess the learner’s level of functioning to identify barriers to learning based
on the Audiologist’ scope of practice: Conduct hearing screening for the
learners; administer formal hearing assessments. Analyse and interpret
audiological results for better decision making for therapeutic intervention,
engage in multi-disciplinary team discussions and make recommendations
and/or referrals: 2) Provide intervention (direct and indirect therapy) relating to
barriers to learning: Provide direct and indirect audiological services based on
Audiology plan to learners in public special schools and public ordinary
schools; prescribe, issue and maintain assistive devices (e.g. Fm Systems);
maintain records of Audiology services, effective administration practices and
report to supervisors as required: 3) Engage in therapeutic capacity-building
programmes and skills sharing on related therapy matters: Provide appropriate
information regarding programmes offered by therapists to internal and
external stakeholders (e.g. School Based Support Team, District Based.
Support Team, parents etc.). Promote awareness of the different therapy
disciplines; participate in awareness campaigns of different disabilities; provide
direct or indirect outreach services when required; engage in continuous
professional developmental activities based on the relevant programmes
offered in the school; supervise undergraduate Audiology students as required.
4) Management of Audiology equipment and assistive devices: Request
appropriate and adequate assistive devices and equipment based on learner
needs; safeguard assistive devices and equipment; maintain records of
material, equipment and the issuing of assistive devices and report faults and
maintenance needs of the materials and equipment; participate in inter- and
intra-sectoral networks and collaborations. 5) Participate in inter- and intra-
sectoral networks and collaborations: Collaborate and interact with
stakeholders (e.g., Department of Health, Department of Social Development,
Non-Profit Organizations, Non- Governmental Organizations, local
government, and the broader Community). Advocate for learners who
experience barriers to learning; liaising with therapists from other special
schools and sharing best practices and experiences; liaison with relevant
professional boards and tertiary institutions; participate in extra-mural and co-
curricular activities: 6) Management and Administration: Manage effective
administration practices of Audiology interventions; ensure compliance with the
code of Ethics of the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA);
practice sound interpersonal relations, engage actively in performance
appraisals per requirements
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Putter (Tel: 040 608 4200)
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/122 : EDUCATION THERAPIST - OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST (GRADE 1)
SALARY : R413 12 – R472 359.per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Ref No: DOE26/06/2026 (Nolitha Special School)
Ref No: DOE27/06/2026 (Lingomsolethu Special School)
Ref No: DOE28/06/2026 (Khanyisa Cala)
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Occupational Therapy: A recognized bachelor’s degree in
occupational therapy from an accredited institution. HPCSA Registration:
Current and valid registration as an Occupational Therapist with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) is mandatory. One Year of
Relevant Experience: A minimum of one year of experience or relevant clinical
experience as an Occupational Therapist. Knowledge: Inclusive Education (IE)
policies (White Paper 6); Screening, Identification, Assessment and Support
(SIAS) policy; Special Schools as Resource Centres; and Integrated School
Health Policy. Functionality of SBSTs and DBSTs. Skills: Therapeutic
110
assessment and techniques; Multi-disciplinary teamwork; Preventative and
developmental approach; Development of training programmes for the SBST;
Report writing; Analysis of data and trends; Communication, consultation and
facilitation skills; Computer literacy; Presentation skills and organising and
planning.
DUTIES : To assess the learner’s level of functioning; to identify barriers to learning
based on the Occupational Therapy’ scope of practice. To conduct screening
for the learners; administer formal and informal assessments. Analyse and
interpret information to make decisions regarding the need for therapeutic
intervention, engage in multi-disciplinary team discussions and make
recommendations and/or referrals. Provide direct and indirect Occupational
Therapy services based on an Occupational Therapy plan to learners in public
special schools and public ordinary schools; determine individualised and
group Occupational Therapy Services. Prescribe, issue and maintain assistive
devices; maintain records of Occupational Therapy Services. Provide
appropriate information regarding programmes offered by therapists to internal
and external stakeholders (e.g. School Based Support Team, District Based
Support Team, parents. Manage Therapy support materials and equipment.
Manage effective administration practices of Occupational Therapy
interventions; ensure compliance with the code of Ethics of the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA). To assist in the placement of
learners in the special schools. To conduct outreach services to other Full-
Service and Public Ordinary Schools.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Putter (Tell: 040 608 4200)
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/123 : EDUCATION THERAPIST - OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST: MT FERE CMC
(GRADE 1) REF NO: DOE29/06/20265
SALARY : R413 121 – R472 359.per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo West
REQUIREMENTS : RVQ 13/14 qualification in Occupational Therapy recognised by SAQA.
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Occupational Therapist. Registration with the South African Council for
Educators (SACE). None after registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) in respect of RSA qualified therapists who performed
Community Service, as required in South Africa. One-year relevant experience
after registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
in respect of foreign qualified therapists, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Knowledge a) National and
Provincial Education legislation, policies and regulations (e.g. Health
Professions Act, Screening Identification Assessment and Support policy
(SIAS), South African Schools Act (SASA), Employment of Educators Act
(EEA), White Paper 6 (Support for special needs learners), b) Analytic,
diagnostic and assessment tools, c) Intervention methods, d) Child
development, e) Therapeutic models and techniques, f) Understanding of
group dynamics, g) Protocol and professional ethics
DUTIES : Assess the learner’s level of functioning to identify barriers to learning based
on the Occupational Therapists’ scope of practice: Conduct screening for the
learners; administer formal and informal assessments. Analyse and interpret
information to make decisions regarding the need for therapeutic intervention,
engage in multi-disciplinary team discussions and make recommendations
and/or referrals. 2) Provide intervention (direct and indirect therapy) relating to
barriers to learning: Provide direct and indirect Occupational Therapy services
based on an Occupational Therapy plan to learners in public special schools
and public ordinary schools; determine individualized and group Occupational
Therapy; prescribe, issue, and maintain assistive devices; maintain records of
Occupational Therapy, effective administration practices and report to
supervisors as required. 3) Engage in therapeutic capacity-building
programmes and skills sharing on related therapy issues/matters: Provide
direct and indirect Occupational Therapy services based on an Occupational
Therapy plan to learners in public special schools and public ordinary schools;
Provide appropriate information regarding programmes offered by therapists to
internal and external stakeholders (e.g., School Based Support Team, District
Based Support Team, parents etc.). Promote awareness of the different
therapy disciplines; participate in awareness campaigns of different disabilities;
provide direct or indirect outreach services when required; engage in
111
continuous professional developmental activities based on the relevant
programmes offered in the school; supervise undergraduate Occupational
Therapy students and therapy assistants as required. 4) Manage Therapy
support materials and equipment: Request appropriate and adequate therapy
support materials and equipment based on learner needs; safeguard therapy
support materials and equipment; maintain records of therapy material,
equipment and the issuing of assistive devices and report faults and
maintenance needs of the materials and equipment; participate in inter and
intra-sectoral networks and collaborations. 5. Participate in inter- and intra-
sectoral networks and collaborations. Collaborate and interact with
stakeholders (e.g., Department of Health, Department of Social Development,
Non-Profit Organizations, Non- Governmental Organizations, local
government, and the broader Community). Advocate for learners who
experience barriers to learning; liaising with therapists from other special
schools and sharing best practices and experiences; liaison with relevant
professional boards and tertiary institutions; participate in extra-mural and co-
curricular activities. 6. Management and Administration: Manage effective
administration practices of Occupational Therapy interventions; ensure
compliance with the code of Ethics of the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA); practice sound interpersonal relations, engage actively in
performance appraisals per requirement.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Putter (Tell: 040 608 4200)
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/124 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO:
DOE30/06/2026
SALARY : R685 812 – R1 442 451 per annum (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination)
CENTRE : Mmeli
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB qualification. At least 8 years appropriate post qualification legal
experience. A minimum of 8 years' appropriate post-qualification legal
experience. Admitted as an Attorney or Advocate A valid drivers licence.
Knowledge of the Constitution. Knowledge of the PFMA. Knowledge of Civil
Procedure (high court and magistrate court rules. Knowledge of PAJA, PAIA,
and POPIA. Extensive knowledge and experience in education law
(Employment of Educators Act and South African Schools Act) Experience in
drafting of Contracts and Legislation. Analytical thinking skills. Experience in
legal drafting. Good verbal and communication skills. Project management
skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for researching the applicability
of legal principles on legal opinion; conducting research on applicable policy,
legislation and legal principles with legal opinions; formulating legal opinions;
studying and citing relevant cases on aspects related to legal opinions;
providing recommendation and conclusion within permissible legal prescripts;
consulting clients to verify requests for opinion and contents of the opinion
upon finalisation; ascertaining whether legislation is in accordance with
principle of drafting and interpretation of statute; ascertaining that the intentions
of the department are reflected in proposed or amendment bills; drafting of
memorandums; establishing if the department should litigate or defend a
matter; consulting with relevant line functions; providing evidence in regard to
possible settlement and negotiating settlements with opponents; preparing
instructions to State Attorneys and making recommendations for appointment
of suitable Advocates where necessary; monitoring court cases from inception
to finalisation; reviewing all pleadings at all stages for the court case as per
court rules; exploring alternative dispute resolution options for each court case;
ensuring that briefings are prepared and court orders are implemented
effectively; drafting and verifying contracts; conducting research on applicable
policy, legislation or regulation to be followed; determining if the contract is legal
and whether it reflects the intention of the department; liaising with all
stakeholders involved in the contract and negotiating on final control; certifying
contracts and verifying consistency between instructions and the content of the
contract; providing inputs into the strategic planning of the Directorate/ Chief
Directorate and executing of the operational plan; providing supervision of
Legal Administration Officers in the sub-directorate; submitting monthly and
quarterly reports to the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Naidoo (Tel: 040 608 4200)
112
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, eMail: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/125 : LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER: LEGAL SERVICES (MR 3 – MR 5) REF NO:
DOE31/06/2026
SALARY : MR3: R337 563 – R385 965.per annum
MR4: R403 929 – R461 838.per annum
MR5: R483 219 - R1 155 777.per annum (Salary will be in accordance with the
Occupational Specific Dispensation Determination (OSD)
CENTRE : Mmeli
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB qualification. At least 3 years appropriate post qualification legal
experience. Knowledge of the Constitution. Knowledge of the PFMA.
Knowledge of Civil Procedure (high court and magistrate court rules.
Knowledge of PAJA, PAIA, and POPIA. Knowledge and experience in
education law (Employment of Educators Act and South African Schools Act).
Good verbal and communication skills. Project management skills. Computer
literacy. Valid drivers licence
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for Providing and administering
legal advice/opinions in the Department, conducting research on policy,
legislation and legal principles; Providing legal advice, guidance and opinions
on legal matters to departmental officials; Drafting and/or amending legal
documents including primary and secondary legislation that is administered by
the Department. Drafting and editing legal correspondence on all
administrative enquiries; Ensuring compliance with PAIA, PAJA and POPIA;
Monitoring, coordinating and evaluating the effective implementation of
education legislation; Assisting Managers with legal support in regard to
contracts; Assisting with contract drafting and litigation; Conducting awareness
on legal matters and legal intervention and carry out any other relevant duties
as instructed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Naidoo (Tel: 040 608 4200)
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, email: erecruitment@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/126 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR (3 POST)
Directorate: Infrastructure Delivery Management
SALARY : R413 001 – R487 197.per annum
CENTRE : Ref No: DOE32/06/2026 (Chris Hani West District) (1 Post)
Ref No: DOE33/06/2026 (Buffalo City Municipality) (1 Post)
Ref No: DOE34/06/2026 (Alfred Nzo East) (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in any of the Built Environment qualifications or N3 and a
passed trade test in the build environment. Or Registration as an Engineering
Technician. Computer literacy; Valid driver’s licence; Computer literacy.
Minimum of Three Years’ experience post qualification. A valid driver’s license.
Competences: Problem solving, personnel management, good planning,
supervisory, organizing and motivation skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound project management skills. Computer literacy with
specific reference to the functional use of MS Word, MS Excell and PowerPoint.
National Building Standards Act of 1977 and Regulations; Government
Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007; Occupational Health and Safety
Act of 1993 and Regulations; South African Schools Act and Regulations;
National Environmental Management Act of 1998; Public Finance
Management Act. Specification writing; Education facilities Management
System (EFMS); People and customer relations; PMBoK; Basic photography
DUTIES : Maintenance and Infrastructure Projects. Assist with the training of Schools on
the criteria applicable to maintenance projects and emergency repairs; Assist
to assess the School Annual financial reports in terms of maintenance
expenditure against performance; Participate in annual evaluations on
completed maintenance projects; Assist to interact with Municipalities to
resolve any issues pertaining to services and/or building plans; Assist to
orientate users in terms of the optimal usage of Facilities. NEIMS assessments.
(building condition assessments). Assist to collect relevant data and
information for updating NEIMS and Facility Management Systems; Assist to
review technical condition assessment findings and make recommendations to
Schools on areas that should receive specific attention; Assist to develop plans
to address shortcomings in terms of compliance in terms of Occupational
Health and Safety Requirements, Environmental Requirements and Quality
Assurance Standards; Assist to implement plans to promote full compliance in
113
terms of Occupational Health and Safety and Environmental Requirements at
Schools. Disaster management plans. Assist to monitor compliance of disaster
management plans; Provide assistance with preparation of disaster
management plans; Assist to train Schools on the preparation of disaster
management plans; Assist to provide mentoring services to Schools in terms
of preparation of disaster management plan. School Maintenance Plans. Assist
to draft School Maintenance Plans and budgets on completion of projects
through application of life cycle costs; Assist Schools to develop maintenance
plans and budgets; Validate quality of school maintenance plans; Make
recommendations to Schools in terms of changes to be made to Schools
Maintenance Plans.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Sivuka Tel No: (040-608 4246)
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: Vukile.tokwe@ecdoe.gov.za/
anele.rululu@ecdoe.gov.za
POST 18/127 : WORKS INSPECTOR (3 POSTS)
Directorate: Infrastructure Delivery Management
SALARY : R280 278 – R330 162.per annum
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi, Anzw & Sarah Baartman
Ref No: DOE10/06/2026 (Joe Gqabi District)
Ref No: DOE11/06/2026 (Sara Baartman)
Ref No: DOE12/06/2026 (Alfred Nzo East)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in any of the Built Environment qualifications; Computer
literacy; Valid driver’s licence; Computer literacy or N3 with passed trade test
or National Diploma in Engineering. Minimum of five years’ experience post
qualification. Valid Drivers’ Licence. Computer literate. Competencies: Job
Creation Targets. (EPWP), National Building Standards Act of 1977 and
Regulations; Government Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007;
Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993 and Regulations; South African
Schools Act and Regulations; National Environmental Management Act of
1998; Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Specification writing;
Education facilities Management System (EFMS); People and customer
relations; PMBoK; Basic photography
DUTIES : Maintenance and Infrastructure Projects. Prepare specifications for work;
Develop bill of quantities; Develop proposals on associated costs; Implement
inspections on projects [maintenance and infrastructure projects; Compile
estimates; Update the electronic maintenance systems; Prepare progress
reports; Analyse and compile relevant project documentation; Manage
activities of contractors; Facilitate and resolve problems; Monitor compliance
with building regulations; Prepare progress reports; Validation of work
completed and verification of invoices; Make recommendations on payments
for work completed; Implement follow up inspections. NEIMS assessments.
(building condition assessments). Assist to collect relevant data and
information for updating NEIMS and Facility Management Systems; Assist to
review technical condition assessment findings and make recommendations to
Schools on areas that should receive specific attention; Assist to develop plans
to address shortcomings in terms of compliance in terms of Occupational
Health and Safety Requirements, Environmental Requirements and Quality
Assurance Standards; Assist to implement plans to promote full compliance in
terms of Occupational Health and Safety and Environmental Requirements at
Schools. Disaster management plans. Implement disaster management plans;
Assist to prepare disaster management plans; Assist to provide training to
Schools on the preparation of disaster management plans; Make inputs to the
development of the integrated District Disaster Management Plan. School
Maintenance Plans. Make inputs to School Maintenance Plans and budgets on
completion of projects through application of life cycle costs; Make inputs to
the development of the integrated District maintenance plan and budget; Assist
to validate quality of school maintenance plans; Assist to make
recommendations to Schools in terms of changes to be made to
District/Schools Maintenance Plans. Effective and efficient resources
management. Maintain discipline; Manage performance and development of
development of employees; Undertake human resources and other related
administrative functions; Establish and maintain effective and efficient
communication arrangements; Plan and allocate work; Develop and implement
processes to promote control of work; Implement quality control of work
delivered by employees.
114
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Sivuka Tel No: (040-608 4246)
For e-Recruitment Enquiries, Email: Vukile.tokwe@ecdoe.gov.za /
anele.rululu@ecdoe.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must strictly apply using only the provincial e-Recruitment system
which is available on www.ecprov.gov.za, or https://www.ecprov.gov.za or
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/. The system is available 24/7 and closes at
23:59 on the closing date. To report technical glitches, for assistance regarding
the system, and/or for activation of your profile, send an email with your ID
Number, your profile email address, details of the issue to
recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za. (NB: For Technical Glitches Only – No CVs).
Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-Thursday and
08:00-16:00 on Fri). Should you submit your applications/ CV to:
recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za and not as specified, your application will be
regarded as lost and not be considered. Refer all application related enquiries
to the specified contact person.
CLOSING DATE : 19 June 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly complete New Z83 form (effective 01
January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit a fully completed signed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB:
Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not downloadable and therefore
not signable; so, applicants who submitted applications via the e-recruitment
system will not be disqualified for an unsigned Z83 instead will be requested to
sign on interview day. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents to HR on or before the
interview date. Applicants with foreign qualifications would be required to
submit an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) on or before the day of the interview. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of twelve (12) months. Misrepresentation in the application documents
will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. It is the department’s objective to
address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line with the
Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation across race
and gender. In filling of these posts gender equity and people living with
disability will be highly considered. The Department reserves the right to
amend / review / withdraw advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of
the department will be well served. (Females and People with disabilities are
also requested to apply and indicate such in their applications). targets of the
department will be adhered to. for SMS (Senior Management Service) Posts:
In terms of DPSA Directive on compulsory capacity development, mandatory
training, and minimum entry requirements for members of the Senior
Management Level for SMS appointments, it is a requirement for SMS
members to produce a pre-entry Certificate (Nyukela) as offered by the
National School of Government (NSG) for entry into the SMS posts and the full
details can be sourced by following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme (the SMS pre-entry certificate is not a
requirement for shortlisting; is submitted prior to appointment. All shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a technical assessment that intends to assess
relevant functional elements of the job. The logistics of assessments of the
candidates shall be communicated by the department. Successful candidates
will be appointed on a probation period of 12/24 months. The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Applications received
after closing date will not be considered. White or Coloured males and People
115
with disabilities are encouraged to apply Enquiries Mr Y Singqandu at Tel No:
043 605 5042. Applications: E-Recruitment Enquiries:
recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
OTHER POST
POST 18/128 : SENIOR DATA CAPTURER: EPWP REF NO: DSD 01/06/2026
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum plus 37% in lieu of benefits (Level 07)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (King Williams Town)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus B Degree/ N Diploma (NQF Level 6/7) in Social
Science, Public Administration/Management, Information
Management/Systems, Financial Management or any relevant/equivalent
qualification. A minimum of 2-3 years of relevant experience in the Expanded
Public Works Programme Competencies: Knowledge of the Public
Employment Programmes or Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP). An
understanding of government legislation, policies, and procedures. Must be
good in Excel spreadsheets backed by sound numerical and analytical
knowledge. Good communication skills. Innovative thinking ability as well as
problem-solving skills. Sound interpersonal and Organisational skills. Sound
personal values in terms of honesty, integrity and confidentiality. Be Computer
Literate.
DUTIES : Provide technical support in the collection of reports from all Departmental
Programmes and Districts. Contribute towards the realisation of the EPWP
targets by utilizing the EPWP reporting tools. Provide exception reports on data
received and captured. Develop lists of EPWP reports expected. Ensure
accurate and consistent capturing of projects and work opportunities.
Reconcile reports received vs expected and advise management on
outstanding reports. Provide technical support in the capturing of all allocated
EPWP projects and work opportunities from Programmes and Districts. Assist
with the preparation of inputs to meet the Departmental reporting mandate.
Conduct data quality assurance.
ENQUIRIES : All enquiries may be directed to Mr Y. Singqandu at Tel No: (043) 605 5042 or
Ms Q. Blayi at Tel No: (043) 605 5048.
APPLICATIONS : e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
116
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
It is the intention to promote representativity in the Department through the filling of these posts. The
candidature of applicants from designated groups especially in respect of people with disabilities will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Electronic Applications: To apply visit: (https://systems.fshealth.gov.za/e-
Recruitment/Login) link.
CLOSING DATE : 19 June 2026
NOTE : Applicants must apply using the (https://systems.fshealth.gov.za/e-
Recruitment/Login) link. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents. (Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit certified documents). All shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to personnel suitability checks on criminal records, citizenship
verification, financial records, qualification verification, sexual offenders
register and applicants could be required to provide consent for access to their
social media accounts. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. Separate applications must be submitted for every vacancy.
Failure to comply with the procedure outlined above, will lead to an application
being rejected. Applicants who terminated their services with voluntary
severance packages may not apply; salary progression on the salary scales is
subject to performance assessment; The FSDoE reserves the right not to fill
advertised positions. It is expected of candidates to be available for selection
interviews on a date, time and place determined by the Free State Department
of Education. It is the applicants’ responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Non-RSA
residents/permanent residents will submit proof only when shortlisted.
Applicants are respectfully informed that if no notification of appointment is
received within 4 months of the closing date, they must accept that their
application has been unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. NB: as of 1st July 2006, all new appointments in the public service
have to be part of the Government Employee Medical Scheme (GEMS) in order
to qualify for a Government Medical Subsidy. Correspondence will only be
entered into with shortlisted applicants. This Is A Re-Advertisement: If You
Have Previously Apply Please Re-Apply For The Posts In Order For The
System To Note Your Application: Advertising Of Vacant Public Servant Posts:
Circular Ps 3 Of 2026
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/129 : WORKS INSPECTOR REF NO: PS03/2026/10
Infrastructure Delivery Management Directorate
Infrastructure Programmes/Projects And Maintenance Sub Directorate
SALARY : R280 278 – R330 162. per annum (Level 6). (A basic annual salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An applicable 3-year degree/diploma or equivalent qualification in Building or
Mechanical or Electrical or N3 with passed trade test or National Diploma in
Engineering. 2 -3 years relevant experience and a Valid Driver’s license
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: Design Of Maintenance System: Make inputs to the
design of the maintenance system. Assist to provide information for the design
and updating of the electronic maintenance management system. Assist to
interact with information technology services on the specifications of the
updating of the maintenance management system. Assist to develop the
maintenance policy and procedures. Training On Maintenance System : Assist
to develop training manuals on the maintenance management system. Assist
to provide training to Districts on the maintenance management system. Assist
to roll out the maintenance management system. Update the maintenance
management system in term of work completed. Call Center : Assist with the
establishment and functioning of the call center. Assist to provide training to
personnel in the call center. Assist to develop standard operating procedure
117
manuals for the call center. Extract information on calls logged and resolved.
Provide technical inputs to call logged. Investigate cases that have not been
resolved. Neims Assessments, Specification And Projects: Assist to provide
relevant data and information for updating NEIMS and Facility Management
Systems. Assist to prepare specifications. Assist to develop a bill of quantities.
Assist to develop proposals on associated costs. Assist to make
recommendations on quotations. Inspect maintenance work on projects sites.
Verify invoices and make recommendations for payments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9292
POST 18/130 : WORKS INSPECTOR (5 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 – R330 162.per annum (Level 6). (A basic annual salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Head Office
Infrastructure Co-Ordination And Delivery: Motheo District Office: Ref No:
PS03/2026/11 (1 Post)
Lejweleputswa District Office: Ref No: PS03/2026/12 (1 Post)
Fezile Dabi District Office: Ref No: PS03/2026/13 (3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An applicable 3-year degree/diploma or equivalent qualification in Building or
Mechanical or Electrical or N3 with passed trade test or National Diploma in
Engineering. 2 -3 Years Relevant Experience And A Valid Driver’s License
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: Design Of Maintenance System: Make inputs to the
design of the maintenance system. Assist to provide information for the design
and updating of the electronic maintenance management system. Assist to
interact with information technology services on the specifications of the
updating of the maintenance management system. Assist to develop the
maintenance policy and procedures. Training On Maintenance System: Assist
to develop training manuals on the maintenance management system. Assist
to provide training to Districts on the maintenance management system. Assist
to roll out the maintenance management system. Update the maintenance
management system in term of work completed. Call Center : Assist with the
establishment and functioning of the call center. Assist to provide training to
personnel in the call center. Assist to develop standard operating procedure
manuals for the call center. Extract information on calls logged and resolved.
Provide technical inputs to call logged. Investigate cases that have not been
resolved. Neims Assessments, Specification And Projects: Assist to provide
relevant data and information for updating NEIMS and Facility Management
Systems. Assist to prepare specifications. Assist to develop a bill of quantities.
Assist to develop proposals on associated costs. Assist to make
recommendations on quotations. Inspect maintenance work on projects sites.
Verify invoices and make recommendations for payments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9292
118
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG PROVINCIAL TREASURY
It is the department’s intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in
the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and
disability status is required.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted on a duly New signed Z83 form, com
prehensive CV, only shortlisted candidates will submit certified documents.
Applications should be submitted online at:
http://professionaljobcentre.gpg.gov.za site or https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/.
Z83 and updated CV must be attached. Pre-entry SMS certificate is
compulsory for SMS appointments. To access the SMS pre-entry certificate
course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For
more information regarding the course please visit the NSG website:
www.thensg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026 @00:00 midnight
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The
Completed and signed form should be accompanied by a recently updated CV
only specifying all experience indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well
as indicating three reference persons with the following information: name and
contact number(s), email address and an indication of the capacity in which the
reference is known to the candidate. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the interview date following
communication from HR. Suitable candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizen, credit record checks, qualification,
and employment verification). Confirmation of final appointment will be subject
to a positive security clearance. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. The persons appointed to this position will be
subjected to a security clearance. SMS candidates will be required to undergo
a Competency Assessment as prescribed by the DPSA. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
will be a practical exercise, and the other will be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Gauteng Provincial Treasury (GPT) reserves the right to utilise
practical exercises / tests for non-SMS positions and during the recruitment
process (candidates who are shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). GPT also reserves the
right to cancel the filling / not to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any
stage of the recruitment process. Prospective applicants must please use the
new Z83 which is effective as of 01 January 2021.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/131 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PUBLIC FINANCE REF NO: REFS/049843
Directorate: Sustainable Fiscal Resource Management
SALARY : R932 292.per annum (All-inclusive package) consists of 70% Basic salary and
30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 7 Qualification in Degree in Economics/Financial Economics or
Statistics. A post graduate qualification will be an added advantage. Valid
Driver’s Licence. 3-5 years’ experience in Junior Management level in the
Economics /Financial or Statistics (Public Finance) management environment.
Knowledge and understanding of the public sector budget and project cycles.
DUTIES : To manage the provision of public finance support services to provincial
Departments. Provide guidance and inputs on the formulation and
implementation of budget policy for the MTEF budget process. Monitoring,
evaluation and analysing departments’ spending of the approved budget
(including spending conditional grants). Performance Management. Reviews
of Goods and Services aimed towards outcomes, impact and value for money
for money in terms of strategic resourcing. Provide guidance and inputs on the
formulation and implementation of the adjustment budget. Strategic and
technical support to sector departments.
119
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – email: tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za
POST 18/132 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PUBLIC FINANCE REF NO: REFS/049844
Directorate: Sustainable Fiscal Resource Management
SALARY : R487 197.per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant three-year Tertiary qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by
SAQA in Economics/ Financial Economics or Statistics. A post graduate
qualification will be an added advantage. 3 – 5 years’ experience at functional
level in Financial/ Economics or Statistics. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To provide public finance support services to provincial departments. Provide
guidance and input on the formulation and implementation of budget policy for
the MTEF budget process. Monitoring, evaluation and analysing departments
spending of the approved budget. Performance Management Reviews of
goods and services and Compensation of employees aimed towards
outcomes, impact and value for money in terms of productivity gains. Provide
guidance and inputs on the formulation and implementation of the adjustment
budget. Strategic and technical support to sector departments services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baleseng Sedibe Email: baleseng.sedibe@gauteng.gov.za
POST 18/133 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO:
REFS/049845 (2 POSTS)
Directorate: Sustainable Fiscal Resource Management
SALARY : R487 197.per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) as recognised by SAQA in
Auditing/ Finance / Risk Management. 3 – 5 years’ experience at functional
administration level in Enterprise Risk Management. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Implement risk management in line with the Risk Management Framework:
Policies and strategies: Conduct risk assessment and monitor the risk
response activities: Participate in the development and implementation of the
Departments combined assurance plan: Participate in the implementation of
the Business Continuity Management Programme with the Department:
Prepare a stakeholder reports for all the government structures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Teneko Bangelo email: teneko.bangelo@gauteng.gov.za
POST 18/134 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT
SALARY : R338 106.per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
Chief Director: Municipal Accounting, Reporting & Asset Management and
Local Government Financial Services Ref No: REFS/049846 (2 Posts)
Chief Director: Public Finance and Macro-Economic Analysis Ref No:
REFS/049847 (2 Posts)
Director: Performance Audit Services Ref No: REFS/049848
REQUIREMENTS : Matric and a three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) as recognised by
SAQA in Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. 3 – 5 years’
experience in office management or similar role. Language skills and the ability
to communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds. Good telephone etiquette. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Remains up to date with regards to the prescripts/policies and procedures
applicable to his/her work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the
manager. Compares the MTEF allocation with the requested budget and
informs the manager of changes. Scrutinizes documents to determine actions/
information/other documents required for meetings. Handles the procurement
of standard items like stationary, refreshments etc for the activities of the
manager and the unit. Utilizes discretion to decide whether to accept/decline
or refer to other employees’ requests for meetings, based on the assessed
importance and urgency of the matter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Teneko Bangelo email: teneko.bangelo@gauteng.gov.za
120
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY AND LIAISON
APPLICATIONS : With the implementation of the online recruitment system, applicants for any
vacant post within the Province of KwaZulu-Natal may apply for a post in the
following ways: -a) via the S’thesha Waya Waya - KZN Online recruitment
portal at (https://www.eservices.gov.za) or b) by submitting by post their Z83
and CV directly to the department to The Head: Community Safety and Liaison,
Human Resource Management, Private Bag, X 9143, Pietermaritzburg, 3200,
or hand delivered to 179 Jabu Ndlovu Street, Pietermaritzburg.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. Z.R Bekwa
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum
vitae (Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
qualifications, all non-SA citizens must submit a copy of proof of permanent
residence in South Africa on or before the day of the interviews). Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. All personal data on applications will be dealt with in terms of the
provisions of the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013. The Department
reserves the right not to fill and/or make an appointment to any of the
advertised posts and to use other recruitment processes to fill these posts
should it choose to do so.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/135 : DIRECTOR: MIDLANDS REGION - REF. NO. CSL03/2026
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (An all-inclusive remuneration package) is payable to
the successful candidate. The package includes a basic salary (70 % of
package) and a flexible portion (30% of package) that may be structured in
terms of the applicable rules. The successful candidate will be subject to
security clearance and the signing of a performance agreement within three
months of appointment.
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7) in Social Science or Police Science or Criminology or
relevant equivalent qualification together with a minimum of 5 years’ middle/
senior management experience in Criminal Justice environment. A valid
driver’s license Code B. Nyukela SMS Pre-entry certificate submitted prior to
appointment. Applicants must be prepared to work extended hours. The
Constitution of RSA, 1996, Knowledge of public service Act and regulations,
PFMA, South African Police Act,1995, National Crime Prevention Strategy,
1996, KZN Commissions Act,1999, Domestic Violence Act,1998, Child Care
Act,1983, Criminal Procedure Act,1977, Employment Equity Act,1998, Skills
Development Act,1998, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act,2000,
Promotions of Access to Information Act,2000, Electronic Communications &
Transactions Act, 2002, State Information Technology Agency
Act,1999,National Youth Development Agency Act, 2008, Civilian Secretariat
for Police Service Act,2011, Fleet management, Labour Relations Act,1995,
Communication and protocol, Communication skills, Project management
skills Community Development, Report writing skills, Computer skills, Financial
Management skills.
DUTIES : To provide strategic direction and coordination in the Region. Manage and
promote crime prevention and partnerships. Ensure the monitoring and
evaluation of police performance in the region. Ensure the development and
implementation of integrated and costed Annual Police Service Delivery Plan
for the Region and outreach areas. Manage the development, evaluation and
review of regional community safety models, initiatives and monitoring tools.
Ensure effective management of resources for the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N.D Mchunu, Tel No: 033 – 3419300.
121
POST 18/136 : DISTRICT COORDINATOR: UMKHANYAKUDE - REF. NO. CSL04/2026
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (An all-inclusive remuneration package) is payable to
the successful candidate. The package includes a basic salary (70 % of
package) and a flexible portion (30% of package) that may be structured in
terms of the applicable rules. The successful candidate will be subject to
security clearance and the signing of a performance agreement within three
months of appointment.
CENTRE : Mkuze
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7) in Social Science or Police Science or equivalent and
relevant qualification together with a minimum of 3 years junior management
experience in crime prevention and partnerships, police performance
monitoring and evaluation. A valid driver’s license Code B. Applicants must be
prepared to work extended hours. Knowledge of the Constitution of RSA, 1996,
Knowledge of public service Act and regulations, PFMA, South African Police
Act,1995, National Crime Prevention Strategy, 1996, KZN Commissions
Act,1999, Domestic Violence Act,1998, Child Care Act 74 of 1983 and
Children’s Act 38, 2005, Criminal Procedure Act,1977, Employment Equity
Act,1998, Skills Development Act,1998, Promotion of Administrative Justice
Act,2000, Promotions of Access to Information Act,2000, Electronic
Communications & Transactions Act, 2002, State Information Technology
Agency Act,1999, National Youth Development Agency Act, 2008, Civilian
Secretariat for Police Service Act,2011, Fleet management, Labour Relations
Act,1995, Communication and protocol, Communication skills, Project
management skills, Report writing skills, Computer Skills, Financial
Management skills.
DUTIES : Manage the monitoring and evaluation of the performance of police stations
and ensure the promotion of community partnerships within the districts.
Develop an integrated, effective and efficient policing system for the district.
Develop monitoring and evaluation mechanism of police performance in the
district. Coordinate functional initiatives to allow for integrated police service
delivery. Monitor indicators which measure the impact of policing to positively
impact on police practices in the district. Coordinate the management of crime
prevention in the district. Ensure effective management of resources for the
district.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. A.K Mtshali, Tel No: 035 – 3419300. This is a re-advertisement of post
number CSL22/2025. Applicants who previously applied for this post are
welcome to re-apply as previous applications will not be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/137 : OFFICE MANAGER: OFFICE OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT - REF. NO.
CSL05/2026
Re-advertisement of post number CSL15/2025. Applicants who previously
applied for this post are welcome to re-apply as previous applications will not
be considered.
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (An all-inclusive remuneration package) is payable to the
successful candidate. The package includes a basic salary (70 % of package)
and a flexible portion (30% of package) that may be structured in terms of the
applicable rules. The successful candidate will be subject to security clearance
and the signing of a performance agreement within three months of
appointment.
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree or National Diploma (NQF level 6) or higher in Public Administration
or Office Administration or equivalent and relevant qualification with a minimum
of 3 years junior management experience. A valid driver’s license. Applicants
must be prepared to work extended hours. Knowledge of public service
regulations, PFMA, Public service regulations, Knowledge of Project
Management, Communication skills, Project management skills, Report writing
skills, Financial Management skills.
DUTIES : To provide administrative support to the Head of Department. Manage
resources in the office of the Head of Department. Coordinate, manage and
quality control information and communication between the Department, HOD
and the Office of the Premier. Coordinate and provide secretarial services to
122
the departmental meetings. Source information required by the Head of
Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. BFN Makhanya, Tel No: No. 033 – 3419300
POST 18/138 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STATISTICAL ANALYSIS AND RESEARCH - REF.
NO: CSL06/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (An all-inclusive remuneration package) is payable to the
successful candidate. The package includes a basic salary (70 % of package)
and a flexible portion (30% of package) that may be structured in terms of the
applicable rules. The successful candidate will be subject to security clearance
and the signing of a performance agreement within three months of
appointment.
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree (NQF level 7) in Social Science or Police Science or equivalent and
relevant qualification together with a minimum of 3 years junior management
experience in the community safety and policing environment. A valid driver’s
license. Applicants must be prepared to work extended hours. Knowledge of
Public Service Act and regulations, PFMA, Knowledge of Project Management,
Knowledge of Crime Prevention Policies, Technical knowledge of research
methodologies and information management, Expert knowledge of the
legislative and policy framework applicable in the department.
DUTIES : To provide statistical analysis and research services. Undertake research and
statistical analysis on provincial safety priorities. Undertake research on special
projects commissioned by the Civilian Secretariat for Police Service. Engage
in ongoing desktop and field monitoring of crime information to guide the
research agenda and programmes of the Department. Maintain a knowledge
repository on community safety research and information for the province.
Conceptualise safety themes and paradigms for focussed deliberation towards
intervention and programme development. Financial management in respect
of project implementation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N.D Mchunu, Tel No: 033 – 3419300
POST 18/139 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COURT WATCHING AND DOCKET AUDITING
REF. NO. CSL07/2026 (3 POSTS)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (level 10)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year Degree (NQF level 7) or higher in Law or Police Science or
Criminology or equivalent and relevant qualification together with a minimum
of 3-year appropriate experience in prosecution or criminal investigation
together with a valid driver’s license code B. Applicants must be prepared to
work extended hours. Knowledge Constitution, Criminal Law, Law of Evidence,
Criminal Procedure Act, Criminal Justice System, Public Service Act and
Regulations, PFMA, Civilian Secretariat for Police Act, SAPS Act, Domestic
Violence Act, Policing Policies, Procedures and Standing Orders. Criminal
Investigation/Prosecution, Communication, Project management, Report
writing, Financial Management, Conflict Resolution.
DUTIES : To monitor and evaluate police stations and address complaints against police
stations for the regions. Monitor and evaluate the implementation of policing
policies and directives, with specific reference to docket and case monitoring,
by police stations in the Region. Monitor and evaluate the service delivery of
police stations and clusters in the Region, with emphasis to processing of
dockets and cases. Address complaints against police stations in the Region
by carefully scrutinizing dockets and cases. Monitor priority cases and protest
action cases. Develop and maintain partnerships in police oversight with
relevant organisations within the Region.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Moodley, Telephone: 033 – 3419300.
POST 18/140 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: POLICE PERFORMANCE, MONITORING AND
EVALUATION: UGU - REF. NO. CSL8/2026
SALARY : R 605 742 per annum (level 10)
CENTRE : Port Shepstone
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year National Diploma (NQF level 6) or higher in Social Sciences / Police
science or relevant equivalent qualification recognized by SAQA, together with
a minimum of 3 years relevant experience in Police Performance, Monitoring
123
and Evaluation. A valid driver’s license. Applicants must be prepared to work
extended hours. Knowledge of the Constitution, Knowledge of public service
Act and regulations, PFMA, Civilian Oversight Act, SAPS Act, Knowledge of
Domestic Violence Act, Knowledge of Project Management, Knowledge of
Crime Prevention Policies, Communication skills, Project management skills,
Report writing skills, Computer skills, Financial Management skills, Conflict
Resolution skills.
DUTIES : To monitor and evaluate police stations and address complaints against police
stations for the districts. Monitor and evaluate the implementation of policing
policies and directives by police stations in the district. Monitor and evaluate
the compliance with legislation the service delivery of police stations in the
district. Address complaints against police stations in the district. Develop and
review district police oversight arrangements and community relations to
properly respond to the needs of the community. Develop and review district
police oversight arrangements and community relations to properly respond to
the needs of the community.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. P.S Nkonyeni, Telephone No. 033-3419300.
POST 18/141 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CRIME PREVENTION AND PARTNERSHIPS:
UMZINYATHI- REF. NO. CSL9/2026
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (level 10)
CENTRE : Dundee
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year National Diploma (NQF level 6) or higher in Social Sciences / Police
science or relevant equivalent qualification recognized by SAQA, together with
a minimum of 3 years relevant experience in Crime Prevention and
Partnerships. A valid driver’s license. Applicants must be prepared to work
extended hours. The successful candidate must have knowledge of the
Constitution, Public Service Act and Regulations, PFMA, Civilian Oversight Act,
SAPS Act, Knowledge of Domestic Violence Act, Project Management, Crime
Prevention Policies, Communication skills, Project management skills, Report
writing skills, Computer skills, Financial Management skills, Conflict Resolution
skills.
DUTIES : To promote community police relations and community safety structures and
implement safety models and initiatives for the district. Develop and maintain
community policing forums, community safety forums and community crime
prevention partnerships and associations. Implement community safety
models and initiatives in the district. Strengthen partnership with the Civil
Society Organisations in the prevention and management of crime prevention
in the district. Coordinate inter-departmental partnerships to implement
interventions in policing priorities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. D.J.L Mkhize - Telephone No. 033-3419300
POST 18/142 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CRIME PREVENTION AND PARTNERSHIPS:
ILEMBE- REF. NO. CSL12/2026
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (level 10)
CENTRE : Stanger
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year National Diploma (NQF level 6) or higher in Social Sciences / Police
science or relevant equivalent qualification recognized by SAQA, together with
a minimum of 3 years relevant experience in Crime Prevention and
Partnerships. A valid driver’s license. Applicants must be prepared to work
extended hours. The successful candidate must have knowledge of the
Constitution, Public Service Act and Regulations, PFMA, Civilian Oversight Act,
SAPS Act, Knowledge of Domestic Violence Act, Project Management, Crime
Prevention Policies, Communication skills, Project management skills, Report
writing skills, Computer skills, Financial Management skills, Conflict Resolution
skills.
DUTIES : To promote community police relations and community safety structures and
implement safety models and initiatives for the district. Develop and maintain
community policing forums, community safety forums and community crime
prevention partnerships and associations. Implement community safety
models and initiatives in the district. Strengthen partnership with the Civil
Society Organisations in the prevention and management of crime prevention
in the district. Coordinate inter-departmental partnerships to implement
interventions in policing priorities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B.G Mbili - Telephone No. 033-3419300.
124
POST 18/143 : SECRETARY TO DIRECTOR: SAFETY RESEARCH AND INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT: REF. NO. CSL10/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate or equivalent. Knowledge: Public Service Act / Regulations,
Departmental Policies, Understanding of SCM practices in the Public Service,
Public Service reporting procedures and work environment; Computer based
SCM Control systems; understanding of all prescripts, practices, and
procedures; Application of policies/legislation; Problem solving and analytical
thinking; Planning and co-ordination; Computer skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS
PowerPoint, MS Access); SCM practices; Team building; Communication
(verbal, written and networking).
DUTIES : To render a secretarial and related support to the Director. Provide
secretarial/receptionist support service to the. Director. Provide clerical support
service to the Director. Keep abreast with new developments and
prescripts/policies. Manage the assets and maintenance of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S.P Bhengu, Telephone No. 033 – 3419300
POST 18/144 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: REF. NO. CSL11/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate or equivalent together with 1 year experience in a financial
environment. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of financial functions practices as
well as the ability to capture data, operate computers and collate financial
statistics, Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial
legislations, procedures and Treasure regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA,
PPPFA, GAAP, Financial Manual), Knowledge of basic financial operating
systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc.), Office work.
DUTIES : To render financial support services within the department. Render Financial
Accounting Transactions. Perform Payroll Administration support services.
Perform Bookkeeping support services. Render a Revenue Pay over to
Provincial Treasury Services. Carry out efficient, effective and economical
procedures and processes in the utilisation of resources allocated to the
subcomponent.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.C Ntuli, Telephone No. 033 – 3419300.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH: KWAZULU-NATAL
“We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and as such, this
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote inclusiveness
in all occupational levels in the Department”.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/145 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: HEALTH SERVICE PLANNING, MONITORING AND
EVALUATION REF NO: G32/2026
Cluster: Health Service Planning, Monitoring And Evaluation
SALARY : R1 494 900.per annum (Level 14) (An All-inclusive SMS Salary Package)
CENTRE : Head Office Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric Certificate, An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 07) as
recognized by SAQA in Business Administration/Management or Public
Administration/Management/Public Health, Five (5) years of experience at a
senior managerial level; PLUS Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code
08). Additional Requirement: Experience in Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation will be an added advantage. NB: For the Pre-Entry Certificate for
SMS, any individual may register for the course and complete such in
anticipation of wishing to apply for an SMS post in future. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-courses/sms-pre-entry-
programme/.Individuals who have completed the course already, and who are
therefore in possession of a certificate are welcome to submit such, however it
is not required that an applicant submit such when applying for the post prior
to the closing date. However, prior to an appointment being made to any SMS
125
post, the appointee to such a post must have completed the pre-entry
certificate and must be in possession of such prior to taking up the post. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. NB: All shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit proof of work experience endorsed and
stamped by the employer/s prior to the date of the interview. Knowledge, Skills,
Training And Competencies The incumbent of this post will report to the Head
of Department and will be responsible for managing the Department’s Strategic
Planning and Information Management Services in accordance with various
legislation, regulations and policies: Manage strategic planning and health
economics services. The ideal candidate must: have thorough knowledge of
Government Governance Management Framework as well as legislative and
other mandates regulating support services in the public sector Extensive
knowledge of and skills to develop effective and efficient office systems, tools
and mechanisms to optimize the performance of the Office of Strategic
Planning and Support Services Possess knowledge of Human Resource and
Financial Management and other related Acts, regulations, frameworks,
prescripts and directives Skills in Project management, Problem Solving,
Computer Skills, Change Management, Strategic Management, Planning and
organisational skills, Communication skills, Report writing skills, Decision
Making, Problem Solving and Analytical skills Values/Attributes: Innovation,
Concern for excellence, Courtesy, Drive and Enthusiasm High level of
communication (both written and verbal) with the Management in the
Department, Colleagues, Trade Unions, Provincial Health Council, Private
Hospitals, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO) and other departments
DUTIES : key performance areas: - job purpose: The successful candidate will be
responsible for, amongst others: Facilitate the development of Departmental
Strategic, Service Delivery and Annual Performance plans Oversee the
development of costing models and cost benefit analysis Identify potential risks
in health service delivery Ensure compliance to strategic and performance
plans Participate in the Social Cluster Programme Participate in District Task
Team Activities (including DDM and OSS) Ensure provision of data
management services and monitoring and evaluation services: Manage
provision of accurate and functional information to support planning,
performance management and decision making Ensure provision of
geographic information systems platform Develop and facilitate the
implementation of a monitoring and evaluation framework Asses overall
performance of the Department against performance indicators Develop and
oversee the implementation of the Audit improvement Plan for pre-determined
objectives Ensure provision of epidemiology services through health research
initiatives: Oversee the development and maintenance of knowledge
framework for the department Oversee health research initiatives and research
on disease trends Ensure provision of epidemiology profiling and early warning
services Oversee the development and maintenance of a health research and
clinical trials policy framework for the department Ensure the development and
implementation of policies: Ensure the implementation of National, Provincial
and Departmental frameworks Ensure the implementation of policies according
to agreed norms and standards Monitor and evaluate compliance with
implemented policies Report on any discrepancies in regard to compliance to
all relevant stakeholders Review and amend policies relevant to the unit as and
when required based on input from stakeholders Ensure the effective, efficient
and economical management of allocated resources of the Chief Directorate:
Manage the financial resources Manage the human resources Manage the
allocated assets Manage potential risks and mitigation strategies Provide
strategic management, planning, leadership and direction Monitor and ensure
that the whole Chief Directorate complies with the dictates of the PFMA and
other Governance Regulations
ENQUIRIES : MRS. TP Msimango Tel No: 033-395 2589
APPLICATIONS : All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services KZN Department of Health Private Bag X9051
Pietermaritzburg 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, REGISTRY, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: MISS TNN Ngema)
Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
126
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address: HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za
NOTE : NB//: The subject of your email must be the post name that you are applying
for. “Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application
Centres (DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online
or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated
Online Application Centres (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
POST 18/146 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL ADVISORY SERVICES: REF NO: G31/2026
Cluster: Legal Services
SALARY : R1 266 714.per annum (Level 13) (An All-inclusive SMS Salary Package)
CENTRE : Head Office Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric Certificate, An LLB Degree (NQF level 07) or equivalent (B
Uris; B Proc; BA Law and B Com Law together with old LLB); PLUS A minimum
of Five (5) years of experience at a middle/ senior managerial level in a legal
practice. PLUS Admission to practice either as an Advocate or an Attorney in
the High Court of South Africa; PLUS Computer Literacy: MS Office Software
Applications; PLUS Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code 08).
Additional Qualification: LLM Degree or Postgraduate Diploma in any discipline
in law will serve as added advantage. NB: For the Pre-Entry Certificate for
SMS, any individual may register for the course and complete such in
anticipation of wishing to apply for an SMS post in future. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-courses/sms-pre-entry-
programme/.Individuals who have completed the course already, and who are
therefore in possession of a certificate are welcome to submit such, however it
is not required that an applicant submit such when applying for the post prior o
the closing date. However, prior to an appointment being made to any SMS
post, the appointee to such a post must have completed the pre-entry
certificate and must be in possession of such prior to taking up the post. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. NB: All shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit proof of work experience endorsed and
stamped by the employer/s prior to the date of the interview. Knowledge, Skills,
Training And Competencies: The incumbent of this post will report to the Chief
Director: Legal Services, and provide legal advisory services to the department
in accordance with the current legislation, policy and general legal practice
imperatives: The ideal candidate must Possess extensive knowledge of civil
and criminal procedures Knowledge in all legal matters impacting on the area
of operation of the Department Knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service Extensive knowledge of all health
legislation, both National and Provincially Broad knowledge of health related
issues Legal drafting skills Excellent communication skills, both verbal and
written Excellent human relations Knowledge and competency in managing
human, physical and financial resources Be computer literate with a proficiency
in all Microsoft Office Software applications.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: - Job Purpose: The successful candidate will be
responsible for, amongst others: Provide overall management of the Litigation,
Contracts and Legislation sub-components, inclusive of strategic and
operational management: Develop, implement and monitor policies and
systems to a specific legal framework and ensure compliance therewith Render
a comprehensive legal advisory service including legal opinions and legal
research: Render legal drafting services to the Department inclusive of
technical advice with regard to the drafting of all departmental contracts Ensure
the effective and efficient management and utilisation of all resources attached
to the component, inclusive of physical, financial and human resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Zungu Tel No: 033-395 2220
APPLICATIONS : All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services KZN Department of Health Private Bag X9051
Pietermaritzburg 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, REGISTRY, Minus 1:1 North Tower (Attention: MISS TNN NGEMA)
Interested applicants can visit the following website at
127
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or submit their Z83 and CV directly to the
following email address: HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za
NB//: The subject of your email must be the post name that you are applying
for.
NOTE : “Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application
Centres (DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online
or receiving your hardcopy application”. You can find the list of Designated
Online Application Centres (DOACS) at Department Of Health: Kwazulu-Natal
“We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life
and as such, this Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer, whose aim is to promote inclusiveness in all occupational levels in
the Department”. www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/147 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PHYSICAL SECURITY REF NO: G37/2026
Cluster: Security Management Services
SALARY : R932 292. per annum (Level 11) (An All-inclusive Salary Package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate (Grade 12). An Appropriate Degree or Diploma in (Security
Management) – Policing or any equivalent relevant qualification. Three (3) to
Five (5) years appropriate Managerial Experience in a Security/ Administration.
Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code 08). All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be and integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. NB: All shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
proof of work experience endorsed and stamped by the employer/s prior to the
date of the interview. Knowledge, Skills, Training And Competencies: Job
Purpose: To manage all Physical Security operations in the whole KZN
Department of Health. The ideal candidate must: - Promoting the generation
and sharing of knowledge of the physical security environment and learning in
order to enhance the collective knowledge of the organization and personnel.
Have the knowledge of KwaZulu-Natal Health Act. Minimum Information
Security Standards (MISS). Minimum Physical Security Standards (MPSS).
Knowledge of Criminal Procedures Act 1997 and Control of Access to Public
Premises and Vehicles Act, 1985. Arms and Ammunition Act, 1969 and
Disaster Management Act, 2002. Have the knowledge of Occupational Health
and Safety Act, 1993 and Trespass Act, 1959. Public Service Act, 1994 and
Labour Relations Act, 1995. Have the knowledge of exchanging information
and ideas in a clear and concise manner appropriate for the audience in order
to explain, persuade, convince and influence others. Must be able to
communicate with external stakeholders such as SAPS, SSA, Commercial
Crime Intelligence Unit, Private Security Service Providers, National
Department of Health, PSIRA, Department of Justice, Department of Labour
and Office of the Premier. Be able to communicate with internal stakeholders
such as Senior Management, National Department of Health, District
Management teams and in-house security personnel.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: - Ensure that Private Security personnel are managed
in accordance with the terms and conditions stipulated in Service Level
Agreement (SLA): Ensure that all Private Security Providers have a valid SLA
in place and Compliance with the SLA by the Private Security providers, Ensure
that the Private Security Providers are adhering to PSIRA Prescripts and re
registered accordingly. Ensure that physical security audits are planned and
conducted accordingly: Manage and arrange Security Audits of all health
facilities in the Province and prepare recommendations, Monitor the
implementation of recommendations and Prepare quarterly reports to
Management on the status of the Departmental Security environment, Conduct
physical security audits with other security agencies i.e. SAPS, SSA and NDOH
and Submit Quarterly reports to the National Department of Health on the
compliance of the Department. Manage personnel security within the
department in liaison with the National Intelligence Agency and the SAPS:
Coordinate investigations in liaison with SAPS and Internal Risk Management
128
Unit, Prepare Security Awareness and Training Programs for the department,
Oversee District Security Awareness and Training Workshops, Ensure that all
security breaches are reported and investigated and Monitor progress to
conclusion and submit monthly reports per District to Manco. Analyze and
develop policies, guidelines aimed at ensuring a safe environment for
departmental assets and personnel: Develop Security Policy and Guidelines
for implementation for the securing of state assets, Ensure that Guidelines and
Policies are being implemented and adhered to, Control and co-ordinate the
development of Institution specific Policies and Guidelines, Ensure effective
access control at all facilities is maintained, Prepare a Provincial Health
Security Policy incorporating MISS and MPSS and Ensure that institutions are
compliant with MPSS. Manage utilization of resources allocated to the Sub-
Component in an efficient and Effective manner including the development of
staff: Monitoring of budget allocation for the component, ensure that all in-
house security personnel are appropriately trained, Ensure that all in-house
security personnel within the Department of Health are registered with PSIRA
and conduct inspections accordingly, Maintain an appropriate filling system for
all physical security matters with the Department including Private Security
Providers and Prepare PMDS for staff with the component.
ENQUIRIES : MR MMM Dladla Tel No: 033-395 2589
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. All Applications Should Be
Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource Management Services
KZN Department of Health Private Bag X9051 Pietermaritzburg 3200 OR Hand
delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia Building, REGISTRY, Minus 1:1
North Tower (Attention: MRS N RADEBE) Applicants are encouraged to apply
for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” “Applicants may also visit any one of our
Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) where our friendly staff will
assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You can
find the list of Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.”
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The appointments are subject
to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to the
following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance, credit
records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication from Human Resources. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by
SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that
you submit your application before the closing date as no late applications will
be considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate applications
for each post that you apply for. Should you not be contacted within 3 months
of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
POST 18/148 : OCCUPATIONAL MEDICINE SPECIALIST REF NO: M02/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810.per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609.per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680.per annum
: (All-inclusive salary packages, which consists of 70% basic salary and 30%
flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
129
as a specialist in Occupational Medicine having passed the necessary
examinations of the Colleges of Medicine of South Africa and recognised as a
Fellow in the College of Public Health Medicine (Occupational Medicine).
Current HPCSA Registration Grade 1: No experience required. Registrars who
have completed their training may also apply on condition that their
appointment will be subject to them submitting documentary evidence of
registration with the Health Professions of South Africa, as stated in the
Minimum Requirements above. Grade 2: In addition to the requirements for a
grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 5 years relevant experience after
registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Occupational Medicine is
required for appointment as a Grade 2 Specialist Grade 3: In addition to the
requirements for a grade 1 Specialist post a minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Occupational Medicine is required for appointment as a Grade 3 Specialist
Knowledge, Skills, Training And Competencies: Sound knowledge and
experience in Occupational Medicine. Experience of working in a healthcare
facility that deals primarily with Occupational Medicine. Knowledge of current
health and public service legislation, including relevant legislation relating to
occupational health and compensation, regulations and policies including
medical ethics, epidemiology and statistics. Good Communication, leadership,
decision-making and clinical skills. Ability to teach junior doctors and participate
in continuing professional development
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Develop and implement the annual strategy and
operational plan aligned. Drive sustainable growth by maintaining a robust
pipeline of occupational health projects. Oversee the development and
strengthening of provincial Occupational Health system with Provincial. Ensure
the provision of accurate, comprehensive data to the Department of Health.
Contribute to provincial strategies for occupational disease management.
Promote innovative, evidence-based research in occupational and
environmental health. Identify and manage research programmes aligned with
provincial and global public health priorities. Oversee dissemination of scientific
findings through publications, conferences, and policy briefs. Ensure
compliance with national and international public health regulations and
standards. Build and maintain strong relationships with government
institutions, industry, labour organisations, academic institutions, WHO, and
other partners. Provide technical advice, operational research, and capacity
building support to provincial, provincial, and local government department
districts. Represent department on specialist committees and forums. Oversee
all operational functions, ensuring effective delivery of occupational health
services, research, training, and technical support. Ensure robust quality
management systems and adherence to all quality assurance standards.
Implement sound governance, accountability mechanisms, and responsible
resource management. Build, lead, and mentor a high performing
multidisciplinary team. Foster a culture of excellence, collaboration, diversity,
and continuous professional development. Support training and development
of occupational health professionals across the province. Ensure effective
communication and guidance during occupational disease outbreaks.
Communicate priorities, achievements, and scientific insights to stakeholders,
policymakers, and the public.
ENQUIRIES : DR N Dlamini Tel No: 033 395 2902
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or email to
HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za All Applications Should Be
Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource Management Services
KZN Department of Health Private Bag X9051 Pietermaritzburg 3200 OR Hand
delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia Building, REGISTRY, Minus 1:1
North Tower (Attention: Mr. A Memela) “Applicants may also visit any one of
our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) where our friendly staff
will assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You
can find the list of Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.”
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
130
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. The appointments
are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency
(SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance,
credit records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA.
Applicants are to provide proof when they have been shortlisted for interviews.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Applicants: Please ensure
that you submit your application before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate
applications for each post that you apply for quoting the relevant reference
number. Should you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the
advertisement, please consider your application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road Pietermaritzburg 3200. Applications can also be
submitted via the e-services system, please assess this site (eservices.gov.za).
FOR ATTENTION : Ms N Cele
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
PREFERENCS : Females and people with disabilities who meet the requirements.
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. The Z83 must be accompanied
by a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only provisionally shortlisted applicants
will be contacted and requested to submit their supporting documents. The
Department will also conduct reference checks with HR of current /previous
employer(s) beside the references provided on CV. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Candidates will be subjected security screening and a
technical assessment. Under no circumstances will be faxed, emailed and late
applications be accepted. The Department discourages applications that are
registered and will not be held responsible for applications sent via registered
mail which are not collected from the post office. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to ensure that the application reaches the Department timeously.
Should you not hear from the Department within 3 months of the closing date,
please regard your application as unsuccessful. Regrettably, due to excessive
budget cuts, the department is not in a position to meet any travel and
subsistence costs relating to recruitment processes, or relocation and
resettlement costs for successful candidates.
OTHER POST
POST 18/149 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE AND SPATIAL PLANNING:
REF NO. KZNPT 26/22
This is a re-advertisement and applicants who had applied are encouraged to
apply again.
SALARY : R487 197 per annum.
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year NQF Level 7 qualification in the built environment i.e., Town and
Regional Planning, Architecture or Land Surveying with Geographic
Information Systems (GIS) as a major. A minimum of 3-years in a GIS
131
environment within infrastructure planning and delivery. A valid driver’s license.
People with disabilities without valid Driver’s license will be assisted by the
department to meet work related travel obligations. Skills, Knowledge And
Competencies: Extensive working knowledge of applicable national and
provincial policies and legislation is required: Advanced Project Management.
Contract Management. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Municipal
Finance Management Act (MFMA). Division of Revenue Act. Construction
Industry Development Board Act (CIDB). Treasury Regulations. Provincial
Growth and Development Strategy (PGDS). Provincial Spatial and Economic
Development (PSEDS). Public Finance Management Act – Best Practices.
Provincial policy priorities. Political and socio-economic environment
surrounding allocated departments. Organising. Planning. Facilitation and
presentation. Problem solving. Research. Analytical. Computer literacy. Time
management. Inter-personal relations. Verbal and written communication.
Financial management. Project Planning and Management. Policy analysis
and development. Self-disciplined and able to work under pressure with
minimum supervision.
DUTIES : Support, Monitor and Oversee Infrastructure Delivery Management
Improvement. Support, monitor and oversee Infrastructure Portfolio Planning.
Conduct Infrastructure Spatial Planning. Support, monitor and oversee
Infrastructure Project/Programme Review. Oversee and Monitor Operations,
Maintenance and Services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G Kanyika Tel No: (033) 897 4426
132
ANNEXURE X
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Limpopo Department of Social Development is an equal opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer.
Designated race groups, females and People with disabilities remain our target and are encouraged to
apply. Applicants are hereby invited to apply for the funded vacant posts as advertised. Applicants who
previously applied for the re-advertised posts they are encouraged to re-apply if still interested.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are hereby invited to apply for the funded vacant posts as
advertised. Applicants who previously applied for the re-advertised posts they
are encouraged to re-apply if still interested. Applications should be addressed
to various institution as per the applicant’s need.
Head Office, Seshego Treatment Centre, Mavambe Secure Care Centre :
Applications should be directed to Head of Department, Private Bag X 9710,
POLOKWANE, 0700 or submitted at: 21 Biccard Street, Olympic Towers
Building, Ground Floor, Office no 30
Capricorn District/Sekutupu Old Age Home: The District Director, Private
Bag X 9709, POLOKWANE, 0700 or hand delivered at 78 Hans Van Rensburg
POLOWANE.
Sekhukhune District: The District Director, Private Bag X80,
LEBOWAKGOMO, 0737 or hand delivered at Old Parliament Building
LEBOWAKGOMO.
Vhembe District: The District Director, Private Bag X5040, THOHOYANDOU,
0950 or hand delivered at Thohoyandou Child and Youth Care Centre,
Thohoyandou Block F Punda Maria Road, THOHOYANDOU.
Waterberg District: The District Director, Private Bag X1051, MODIMOLLE,
0510 or hand delivered at Cnr Elias Motswaledi & Thabo Mbeki Street,
MODIMOLLE.
Mopani District: The District Director, Private Bag X 9689, GIYANI, 0826 or
should be hand delivered at Department of Social Development Unigaza Road
GIYANI Section A, 0826.
Applicants are encouraged to register and submit their applications through the
e-Recruitment website at https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za however, hand
delivery applications are acceptable but Faxed applications will not be
considered
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new Z83 application form obtained from
all Government Departments or can be downloaded from www.gov.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za / www.labour.gov.za. The new Z83 form must be fully
completed and signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in
relation to the completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part
C and Part D must be completed. In Part B, all fields should be completed in
full except the following: South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers. If an applicant responded “No” to the question “Are you conducting
business with the State or are you a Director of a Public or Private company
conducting business with the State? Then it is acceptable for an applicant to
indicate not applicable or leave blank to the question. If yes (provide detail), “In
the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interest?”. Applicants may leave the following
question blank if they are not in possession of such: “If your profession or
occupation requires official registration, provide date and particulars of
registration”. Noting there is limited space provided for Part E, F & G, applicants
often indicate “refer to Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see attached”, this is
acceptable as long as the CV has been attached and provides the required
information. If the information is not provided in the CV, the applicant may be
disqualified. It must be noted that a CV is an extension of the application of
employment Z83, and applicants are accountable for the information that is
provided therein. The questions related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part F must be answered. Applicants with foreign
qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their qualifications are
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide
proof of such evaluation.Applicants are not required to submit certified copies
of educational qualifications, academic records, current registration with the
relevant statutory body, Identity documents and a valid motor vehicle driver’s
license (where required) but must submit a duly completed Z83 application for
employment form, and a detailed CV. Shortlisted candidates will be required
133
to come for an interview, at which time, certified copies of all relevant
qualifications, current registration with the relevant statutory body, copy of ID
and a valid motor vehicle driver’s license (where required) must be submitted
.All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
shall be a practical exercise and the other shall be an Integrity [Ethical
Conduct], an Assessment as per Directive on Human Resource Management
and Development for Public Service Professionalization effective from 01 April
2024.The successful candidate will be subjected to security clearance [Vetting]
as per the Directive on Human Resource Management and Development for
Public Service Professionalization effective from 01 April 2024. Shortlisted
candidates for Senior Management Services (SMS) will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
Assessment tool. In order to ensure that potential SMS members have a
background on processes and procedures linked to the SMS, a further
requirement for appointment at SMS level will be a successful completion of
the Senior Management pre-entry certificate/programme as endorsed by the
National School of Governance (NSC) with effect from 01 April 2020. This is a
Public Service specific training programme which will be applicable for
appointments at SMS level. The link for the completion of the SMS pre-entry
certificate is as follows: https://www.thensg.qov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entry-programme/.NB: Applicants are encouraged to comply with Practice note
on the Z83 application for employment DPSA Circular 19 of 2022, Clarification
regarding the completion of Z83 application DPSA circular 3 of 2025 and other
related matters. The Department reserves the right NOT to make any
appointment to the posts advertised. The employment decision shall among
other determination be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the
Department. The Limpopo Department of Social Development is an equal
opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer. Designated race groups, females
and People with disabilities remain our target and are encouraged to apply.
Correspondence will be entered into with short-listed candidates only due to a
large number of applications we envisage to receive, if you have not heard from
the Department within ninety (90) day from the closing date, consider your
application unsuccessful. Recognition of experience on appointment will be
considered for Social Service Professions in line with Occupational
Dispensation prescripts. The contents of this circular will also be posted on the
following websites www.dsd.limpopo.gov.za / www.limpopo.gov.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za, Provincial Departments website and social media. Please
note: Due to austerity measure, the department will not carry any related costs
(transport, accommodation, and meals) for candidates attending interviews.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/150 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SERVICE DELIVERY COORDINATION REF
DSD/2026/121 (1 POST)
(Re-Advert)
SALARY : R1 494 900.per annum (All-Inclusive Package), (Level 14)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 or equivalent qualification in Social
Sciences, Public Administration, Management, Social Work as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of five (05) years of proven experience at senior
Management level. Proof of completion of SMS pre-entry programme must be
submitted before appointment. Valid motor vehicle driver’s license (with
exception of persons with disabilities). Core And Process Competencies:
Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project Management,
Change Management, Financial Management, People Management and
Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and analysis, Client
orientation and customer focus, Communication. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies and procedures.
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Leadership &
Management skills. Communications. Conflict management. Policy analyzing
134
and interpretation skill. Report writing skills. Project Management. Problem
analysis and analytical thinking.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide leadership and high-level strategic direction
and policy in the branch. Manage the provision of district management
services. Manage the provision of NPO governance and compliance service.
Manage the provision of institutional capacity building and support. Establish
partnerships with various stakeholders. Manage financial, administrative and
related functions.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake at 015 230
4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 18/151 : DIRECTOR : HOD SUPPORT REF:DSD/2026/122 (1 POST)
SALARY : R1 266 714.per annum (All-Inclusive Package),(Level 13)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 7 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of
five (05) years of proven experience at Middle / senior Management level.
Proof of completion of SMS pre-entry programme must be submitted before
appointment. Valid motor vehicle driver’s license (with exception of persons
with disabilities).Core And Process Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Change Management,
Financial Management, People Management and Empowerment, Knowledge
Management, Problem Solving and analysis, Client orientation and customer
focus, Communication. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge and understanding
of the legislative frame- work governing the Public Service. Public Service
Knowledge, Negotiation, Policy formulation and Analytic thinking. Report
writing skills; Facilitation skills, Co-ordination skills, Liaison skills, Networking,
Interpersonal skills, Leadership skills, Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide guidance and leadership towards the
realization of the strategic goals and objectives of the office of the HoD. Provide
leadership and high-level coordination of the workflow in the office of the HoD.
Ensure and maintain good relation within the Department and relevant
stakeholders. Formulate and manage the Executive and senior management
fora. Coordinate social cluster activities, EXCO decisions, Resolutions and
follow up with relevant line functions. Consolidate reports. Manage and utilize
human resource in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
Formulate and manage the component ‘s budget against its strategic
objectives.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake at 015 230
4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/152 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER :HOD SUPPORT REF: DSD/2026/123 (1 POST)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF 6 or equivalent relevant qualification in Management
Assistance /Secretarial/ Office Management /Public
Administration/Management as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 2-3 years’
experience in rendering support to senior management. A valid motor vehicle
driver’s licence (with the exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge And
Skills: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant legislation/policies/prescripts
and procedures governing the public service. Excellent written and verbal
skills. Good telephone etiquette. Computer literacy. Sound organisational skills.
Interpersonal relations. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and
discretion.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Assist the HoD with tracking and monitoring task.
Effectively manage the HoD’s diary. Prepare documents, briefing and reports
for the HoD. Develop and maintain appropriate filing system for the HoD.
Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the HoD. Render
administrative support service. Provide support to HoD regarding meetings.
Support the HoD with the administration of the budget. Obtain inputs and
compile reports. Respond to enquiries received from internal and external
135
stakeholders. Keep abreast with the procedures and processes applicable in
the office of the HoD.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake at 015 230
4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 18/153 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1
SALARY : R338 208 per annum, (Level: SW-A4)
CENTRE : Capricorn District : Molemole : Dendron Clinic , Ref: DSD/2026/124, (1 Post)
Vhembe District: Manhezhe clinic, Ref: DSD/2026/125 (1 Post )
Dzumaulu Tribal Office, Ref: DSD/2026/126 (1 Post )
Tshaulu One Stop, Ref: DSD/2026/127 (1 Post)
Mopani District: Lulekani Ref: DSD/2026/128 (1 Post)
Sekhukhune District: Praktiseer, Ref: DSD/2026/129(1 Post)
Tubatse, Ref: DSD/2026/130 (1 Post)
Fetakgomo, Ref: DSD/2026/131(1 Post )
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Social Work as recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the
South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP). Valid motor
vehicle driver’s license (with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge:
Skills And Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of human behaviour,
social system and skills to intervene at a point where people interact with their
environmental environment in order to promote their well-being. Knowledge of
programme and project management skills. Information and knowledge
management skills. People management and empowerment skills.
Communication and coordination skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render social work services with regard to care,
protection and development of vulnerable individuals, group, families and
communities. Provide individual and group counselling. Conduct advance and
specialized assessment aimed at identifying condition and justify relevant
intervention. Implement the recommendations on the appropriate intervention
required to address the needs and provide continuous support. Produce and
maintain records of social work interventions, processes and outcomes.
Undertake social work research and development, contribute to and assist with
the development of policies. Perform all the administrative functions required
of the job.
ENQUIRIES General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake at 015 230
4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 18/154 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO CHIEF DIRECTOR : CORPORATE SERVICES
REF: DSD/2026/132 (1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum, (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF 6 in Management Assistance/ Secretarial/Office
Management/Public Administration/Management or equivalent relevant
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 1-2 years’ experience in
rendering support to senior management. A valid motor vehicle driver’s licence
(with the exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Sound
and in-depth knowledge of relevant legislation/policies/prescripts and
procedures governing the public service. Basic knowledge on financial
administration. Excellent written and verbal skills. Good telephone etiquette.
Computer literacy. Sound organisational skills. Interpersonal relations. High
level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to conduct
research, document analysis and situations. Self-management and motivation.
Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to
the Chief Director. Render administrative support service. Provide support to
Chief Director regarding meetings. Support the Chief Director with the
administration of the budget. Obtain inputs and compile reports. Respond to
enquiries received from internal and external stakeholders. Keep abreast with
the procedures and processes applicable in the office.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake at 015 230
4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
136
POST 18/155 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 REF:
DSD/2026/133 (1 POST)
SALARY : R289 296.per annum, (LeveL: CD- A4)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District: Ephraim Mogale: Marulaneng Clinic ,
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualification in
Development Studies / Diaconiology / Social Sciences / Community
Development / Sociology / Anthropology / Population Studies / Demography as
recognized by SAQA. Valid motor vehicle driver’s licence (with the exception
of persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of community
development work, skills, attitudes and values of communities. Knowledge and
understanding of human behaviour, social systems and relevant legislations.
The ability and competence to co-ordinate community development structures.
The ability to influence individuals and group to participate in self-
empowerment ventures. Understanding of social dynamics of communities.
Knowledge and understanding of basic financial management. Presentation
skills. Computer literacy. Written and verbal communication skills. Facilitation
skills. Research skills. Project management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Identify and facilitate the implementation of integrated
community development interventions in partnership with the community and
other relevant stakeholders. Collaborate and liaise with pertinent role players
and stakeholders to establish partnerships to ensure the sustainability of
development actions within the community. Support communities and perform
administrative support on community development and related activities. Keep
abreast of new developments in the community development field to enhance
service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake at 015 230
4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 18/156 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF: DSD/2026/134 (1
POST)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum, (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekutupu Old Age Home,
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualifications
as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Public Management / Administration
and/or Finance will be an added advantage. Knowledge And Skills: Computer
literacy skills. Good verbal and written communication skills. Interpersonal
relations. Planning and organising. Language skills. Teamwork. Aptitude of
figures. Basic numeracy skills. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to operate
office equipment and Accuracy. Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data. Allocate financial statistics.
Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial legislations.
Procedures and treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA,
Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL,
BAS, LOGIS etc).
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Carry-out the barcoding of Assets in the District.
Registering of Asset. Conduct Asset verification in the district.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake at 015 230
4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 18/157 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF: DSD/2026/135 (1 POST)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mavambe
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualifications
as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Public Management / Administration
and/or Finance will be an added advantage. Knowledge And Skills: Computer
literacy skills. Good verbal and written communication skills. Interpersonal
relations. Planning and organising. Teamwork. Knowledge of legal framework
governing the Public Service. Interpersonal skills
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render a variety of administrative duties. Admission
and discharge of children. Assists in collecting statistics. Intake client
information. Filing of records. Updating client register. Management of child
and youth care information management system.
137
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake at 015 230
4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 18/158 : CLEANER
SALARY : R144 024 per annum, (Level 02)
CENTRE : Head Office, Ref: DSD/2026/136, (2 Posts)
Capricorn District, Ref: DSD/2026/137 (2 Posts)
Waterberg District: Mokopane, Ref: DSD/2026/138 (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Certificate or STD 8/GRADE 10/AET/ABET, or equivalent qualification.
Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Knowledge of
basic safety and hygiene practices. Knowledge of infection control and hazard
monitoring. Interpersonal skills. Communication skills. Time management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide cleaning services. Keep and maintain
cleaning materials and equipment. Request and manage the supply of cleaning
materials and equipment. Implement and maintain hygiene and infection
prevention measures.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake at 015 230
4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
138
ANNEXURE Y
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY, SECURITY & LIAISON
APPLICATIONS : https://erecruitment.mpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 at 16H15
NOTE : Applications on the new Z83 form shall be fully completed via e-recruitment
system through a link provided above and upload a detailed Curriculum Vitae.
Copies of qualifications and other relevant documents shall be submitted by
shortlisted candidates only on or before the day of the interview. The
Curriculum Vitae must have at least three (3) reference persons and their
contacts, failure to provide accurate information on a job application as well as
incomplete information will results in a disqualification. Requirements stated on
the advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore, criteria for
shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications received.
Communication will be done to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been
contacted within three months after the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS/MMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
would be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Selection panels shall
score both technical exercise as an additional criterion in the interview. A Pre-
entry certificate (Nyukela) into Senior Management Services (SMS/MMS) and
a full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms- pre-entry-program.
SMS/MMS posts will be subjected to a Competency Assessment test to
determine the final outcome of appointment. Communication will be done to
shortlisted candidates only.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/159 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR - OFFICE OF THE HOD: DEPARTMENT OF
COMMUNITY SAFETY, SECURITY AND LIAISON X1 REF: DCSSL/01/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (An all-inclusive remuneration package) (Level 11). The
succesful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement
with the Head of Department (HOD). The shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a competency assessment.
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree (NQF Level 7) with 3 years’ relevant experience in
Junior Management level. Knowledge of Public Service legislation, regulations,
and governance frameworks (e.g. PFMA and Treasury Regulations). Excellent
communication skills (written and verbal). Planning and Organizational skills.
Strong leadership and management capabilities. Advanced report writing and
presentation skills. The ability to maintain confidentiality and retain professional
image at all times. Good public relations. Excellent interpersonal skills for
liaising with internal and external stakeholders. Ability to work in a team. Ability
to work under pressure and manage competing or multiple priorities. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Key performance areas: Provide executive support to the HOD • Ensure
effective and efficient management of the office of the HOD Represent the
HOD in specific circumstances as may be assigned to the HOD Report on and
monitor output Manage, direct , assess written and verbal communication to
and from the office of the HOD daily Monitor feedback weekly and manage
system to obtain feedback and keep track of what needs to be followed up
Facilitate, develop and coordinate the implementation of plans and monitor
monthly and quarterly achievements based on the departmental objectives and
procedures Manage expenditure daily in terms of the approved budget of the
HOD and monitor budget monthly Attend to the preparation, compilation,
editing and coordination of monthly, quarterly and annual reports as required
by the MEC, HOD and Senior Management Administer and provide support to
the HOD in daily routine, including arranging appointments, travel
arrangements and general logistics Arrange meetings on behalf of the HOD
both internally and externally.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Mathebula Tel No: 013 766 4019 or Mr MG Mnisi 013 766 4057
139
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote representivity (race, gender, and
disability)
POST 18/160 : DEPUTY- DIRECTOR - INTERNAL AUDIT: DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY
SAFETY, SECURITY AND LIAISON X1 REF: DCSSL/02/2026
SALARY : R932 292. per annum (An all-inclusive remuneration package) (Level 11). The
succesful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement
with the Director: Internal Audit. The shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
a competency assessment.
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced National Diploma in Internal
Audit, Accounting, Finance (NQF Level 7). A minimum of three (3) years’
experience at Junior Management Level within the Internal Audit environment.
Essential skills will include the following: Knowledge and understanding of
Departmental policies/circulars/instructions/frameworks. National
guidelines/Acts/Regulations/norms and standards. Internal Audit methodology.
International Standard for the professional practice of Internal Auditors. Internal
Audit Plan. Internal Audit Charter. Planning and Organising Skills. Computer
literacy (Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Audit Systems). Applied
strategic thinking, Budgeting and financial management, Communication and
information management, Continuous improvement, Customer focus and
responsiveness, Diversity management, Networking and building bonds,
Planning and organising. Problem solving and decision-making, Project
Management and Team leadership.
DUTIES : Key performance areas: Manage the internal audit services Audit planning and
execution Quality assurance and reporting Compliance and continuous
improvement (Keep up to date with new developments in the internal audit
environment) Audit committee and stakeholder support Manage the provision
of administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Mathebula Tel No: 013 766 4019 or Mr MG Mnisi 013 766 4057
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote representivity (race, gender, and
disability)
POST 18/161 : ASSISTANT-DIRECTOR - INTERNAL AUDIT: DEPARTMENT OF
COMMUNITY SAFETY, SECURITY AND LIAISON X1 REF: DCSSL/03/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09).
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Internal Audit, Accounting, Finance (NQF
Level 6). A minimum of three (3) years’ experience within the Internal Audit
environment. Essential skills will include the following: Knowledge and
understanding of Departmental policies/circulars/instructions/frameworks.
National guidelines/Acts/Regulations/norms and standards. Internal Audit
methodology. International Standard for the professional practice of Internal
Auditors. Internal Audit Plan. Internal Audit Charter. Planning and Organising
Skills. Computer literacy (Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Audit
Systems). Communication, Conflict management, Report writing, Logical and
analytical thinking, Able to interpret and apply policies, Peoples Management
skills, Interpersonal Skills, Decision making, Problem solving skills and
Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Key performance areas: Audit planning and execution Evaluate the
department’s controls/objectives to determine their effectiveness and efficiency
through internal audits Compliance and Continuous Improvement (Keep up to
date with new developments in the internal audit environment) Stakeholder
engagement. Render administrative services in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Mathebula Tel No: 013 766 4019 or Mr MG Mnisi 013 766 4057
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote representivity (race, gender, and
disability)
POST 18/162 : INTERNAL AUDITOR- INTERNAL AUDIT: DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY
SAFETY, SECURITY AND LIAISON X1 REF: DCSSL/04/2026
SALARY : R413 001.per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/National Diploma in Internal
Audit/Accounting/Commence or finance. (NQF 6). A minimum of three (03)
140
years’ experience in internal and external Audit standards. CIA/CA (SA)
designation or pursuing designation will be an added advantage. Essential
skills will include the following: Knowledge and understanding of International
standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Audit. Internal Audit
Approaches Departmental policies/circulars/instructions/frameworks National
guidelines/Acts/Regulations/norms and standards Internal Audit methodology
Internal Audit Internal Audit Charter Computer literacy (Ms Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook and Audit Systems).
DUTIES : Key performance areas: Perform planning of internal audit assignments
Perform execution of internal audit assignments Report audit results Perform
all administrative related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Mathebula Tel No: 013 766 4019 or Mr MG Mnisi 013 766 4057
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote representivity (race, gender, and
disability)
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the CORRECT references
when applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications).All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/163 : DIRECTOR: ASSESTS MANAGEMENT REF NO: MPDoH/May/26/799
SALARY : R1 266 714 per.annum. (Level 13) (All-Inclusive Remuneration Package).
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : An under-graduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Finance / Assets / Logistic
Management as recognised by SAQA. At least five (5) years’ experience at a
middle / senior managerial level. Extensive knowledge and experience in Asset
141
Management. In-depth knowledge of Financial, SCM and Asset Management
procedures and prescripts. Knowledge of the PFMA, PPPPFA, Treasury
Regulations, GIAMA and SCM Practice Notes. LOGIS knowledge and
experience as well as an Accounting and Provisioning Administration
background Good interpersonal and communication skills as well as advanced
computer skills Ability to manage staff and draft relevant policies and/or reports
as required. Ability to work well under pressure and work independently as well
as the willingness to work overtime when necessary. The successful candidate
must be highly reliable, self-motivated, flexible, creative, client focused and
quality orientated. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Develop and oversee the implementation of the asset management system,
including: the establishment of the Asset Management Unit and departmental
policies and procedures. Develop and maintain the strategic and annual asset
management plans aligned with the departmental strategy and budget [in
consultation with Public Works where applicable]. Develop and maintain asset
registers, including; acquisitions, maintenance management, transfers and
valuations. Develop and maintain the lease register. Develop asset needs
assessment, acquisition management, operational and disposal plans as well
as execute and monitor the implementation thereof. Plan and execute the asset
verification, investigate and report on variances, make necessary
recommendations to resolve discrepancies, and update the asset register.
Develop, implement and manage mechanisms to safeguard assets. Prepare a
monthly reconciliation with supporting schedules of the asset registers to the
relevant accounting records and resolve unclear items. Prepare a business
plan for the life cycle of assets, including an analysis of pricing options utilising
life cycle cost and recommendations on the most appropriate asset solution.
Report on asset management information as required to internal and external
stakeholders. Manage valuations for immovable assets and update the asset
register. Establish and execute a performance measurement system to
evaluate the effective utilization of assets. Utilise BAS to capture accounting
transactions, control the general ledger, perform financial administration and
prepare financial reports. Utilise LOGIS for provisioning, procurement, stock
control and reporting. Utilise Vulindlela as a management information system
for monitoring and reporting of revenue, expenditure, assets and liabilities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/164 : DIRECTOR: PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/800
SALARY : R1 266 714 per.annum. (Level 13) (All-Inclusive Remuneration Package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in BSc. Pharm / B. Pharm as
recognised by SAQA. At least fisve (5) years relevant experience in middle /
senior managerial level services. Valid Driver’s Licence. Good communication
skills (written and verbal), interpersonal and computer literacy ((MS Word and
Excel). Ability to work in a team. Good understanding of the National Drug
Policy and good pharmacy practices guidelines. Sound kknowledge of the
Pharmacy Act and the related Substance Act.
DUTIES : Development of strategic and operational plan of Pharmaceutical Services.
Provide expert advice on selection and procurement of pharmaceuticals,
medical and surgical supplies. Compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports
of Pharmaceutical Services. Management of the pharmaceutical budget and
monitor expenditure. Overall responsibility and accountability for medicine
supply management processes. Manage warehousing of all pharmaceuticals.
Manage the development and review of pharmaceutical policies. Manage
Essential Medicine List Programme. Render technical and pharmaceutical
support to all health programmes. Provide expert advice and training to other
health care. Ensure the implementation of the down referral system. Implement
the essential drug programme. Supervise pharmaceutical care to hospital
patients by implementing monitoring of work procedures, policies and
guidelines. Effective implementation and monitoring of security measures to
ensure the safekeeping of all pharmaceutical within the pharmaceutical depot
and the hospitals. Overall responsibility and accountability for drug supply
management to ensure the safe and reliable procurement, storage, control and
142
distribution of quality pharmaceuticals, Assist with the training, education and
development of Pharmacy staff. Promoting of public health. General control
and assessment of pharmacy staff. Recruitment and retention of pharmacy
personnel. Assist in the implementation of Provincial Comprehensive HIV/AIDS
care and treatment plan (ARV’s). Ensure proper selection and procurement of
drugs and surgical items in the depot. Ensure national use of drugs. Monitor
expenditure on pharmaceutical and surgical items. Perform stock control
functions. Ensure proper reconciliation of pharmaceutical accounts.
Administrative duties and record keeping, including stock control and assisting
with budget. Attendance and feedback of allocated meetings. Supervision of
pharmaceutical services staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/165 : DIRECTOR: EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT REF NO: MPDoH/May/26/801
(Re-Advertisement)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per.annum. (Level 13) (All-Inclusive Remuneration Package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Finance or equivalent
qualification as recognised by SAQA. At least five (5) years Finance experience
at middle / senior managerial level. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge of
procurement legislation, procedures and processes including the supply chain
management framework and asset management guidelines. The PPPFA, the
PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Project management and excellent problem-
solving skills. Excellent communication (verbal, written and presentation) skills.
Strong leadership and management skills and the ability to develop a strong
work team. Motivated and output and outcome driven. Good interpersonal
relations and ability to work with people at all levels. The ideal candidate should
have the following qualities: Proven innovative and creative ability. Financial
management skills. Change management. Knowledge management. Service
delivery innovations. Problem solving and analysis. People management and
empowerment. Client orientation and customer focus. Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : To render expenditure management services. Manage payment services.
Manage salary administration services. Overseeing the management of
payments, ensuring that all financial transactions are processed accurately and
efficiently. This includes managing budgets. Monitoring expenditure and
ensuring compliance with financial regulations. Implementing financial policies
and procedures to ensure that payment processes align with government
regulations and standards. This includes developing and updating payment
policies as needed. Ensuring that all payment processes are subject to regular
audits and comply with internal and external audit requirements. This helps
maintain transparency and accountability in financial operations. Identifying
and mitigating financial risks associated with payment processes. This involves
implementing controls to prevent fraud and errors in financial transactions.
Collaborating with various stakeholders, including other government
departments, suppliers and service providers, to ensure smooth payment
operations. This includes resolving any payment related issues that may arise.
Preparing financial reports and analyses to provide insights into payment
trends and performance. This helps inform decision making and improve
financial management practices.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/166 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: ANAESTHESIOLOGY REF.
NO: MPDoH/May/26/802
SALARY : R2 168 145 - R2 301 186 per.annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
143
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology
(2026). A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Anaesthesiology. Inherent requirement of the job: It will be expected of the
successful Head: Clinical Unit to work commuted overtime, limited to 12 hours,
if operational requirements so demand. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the relevant statutory and policy frameworks,
including Healthcare 2030, the Ideal Hospital framework, the Regulated Norms
and Standards, EDL, Standard Treatment Guidelines and evidence-based
clinical care. Clinical service delivery in accordance with the Level 2 & 3
package of care for Anaesthesiology, and experience in driving continuous
quality improvement, clinical risk identification and mitigation, and managing
medico-legal matters. Proven experience with supervising staff, training junior
doctors, and managing financial and other resources, with the ability to develop
staff of quality and provide leadership with regards to issues of diversity,
transformation and equity. Track record in training of both under-graduate and
post-graduate healthcare personnel. Computer literate in MS package.
DUTIES : Fulfil the role and duties of Head of the Anaesthesiology Department in
rendering an efficient and cost-effective specialized Anaesthesiology service to
patients managed by the Witbank Tertiary Hospital, including the delivery of
outreach and support services. Ensure clinical governance and quality
management for the Anaesthesiology Service at Witbank Tertiary Hospital and
respond to medical and legal incidents as they arise. Ensure the rational use
of resources (including laboratory investigations, medication, consumables
and equipment) and manage human, financial and capital resources in the
Anaesthesiology Department. Deliver effective and efficient management of
the Anaesthesiology Department, and provide strategic leadership, planning
and decision-making as a member of the Hospital Executive Management.
Plan and partake in the training of staff including Registrars, Medical Officers,
Community Service Medical Officers and Interns.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/167 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: OPHTHALMOLOGY REF.
NO: MPDoH/May/26/803
SALARY : R2 168 145 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Ophthalmology
(2026). A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Ophthalmology. Inherent requirement of the job: It will be expected of the
successful Head: Clinical Unit to work commuted overtime, limited to 12 hours,
if operational requirements so demand. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the relevant statutory and policy frameworks,
including Healthcare 2030, the Ideal Hospital framework, the Regulated Norms
and Standards, EDL, Standard Treatment Guidelines and evidence-based
clinical care. Clinical service delivery in accordance with the Level 2 & 3
package of care for Ophthalmology, and experience in driving continuous
quality improvement, clinical risk identification and mitigation, and managing
medico-legal matters. Proven experience with supervising staff, training junior
doctors, and managing financial and other resources, with the ability to develop
staff of quality and provide leadership with regards to issues of diversity,
transformation and equity. Track record in training of both under-graduate and
post-graduate healthcare personnel. Computer literate in MS package.
DUTIES : Fulfil the role and duties of Head of the Ophthalmology Department in
rendering an efficient and cost-effective specialized Ophthalmology service to
patients managed by the Witbank Tertiary Hospital, including the delivery of
outreach and support services. Ensure clinical governance and quality
management for the Ophthalmology Service at Witbank Tertiary Hospital and
respond to medical and legal incidents as they arise. Ensure the rational use
of resources (including laboratory investigations, medication, consumables
144
and equipment) and manage human, financial and capital resources in the
Ophthalmology Department. Deliver effective and efficient management of the
Ophthalmology Department, and provide strategic leadership, planning and
decision-making as a member of the Hospital Executive Management. Plan
and partake in the training of staff including Registrars, Medical Officers,
Community Service Medical Officers and Interns.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/168 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: ENT REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/804
SALARY : R2 168 145 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in ENT (2026). A
minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in ENT. Inherent requirement
of the job: It will be expected of the successful Head: Clinical Unit to work
commuted overtime, limited to 12 hours, if operational requirements so
demand. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge
of the relevant statutory and policy frameworks, including Healthcare 2030, the
Ideal Hospital framework, the Regulated Norms and Standards, EDL, Standard
Treatment Guidelines and evidence-based clinical care. Clinical service
delivery in accordance with the Level 2 & 3 package of care for ENT, and
experience in driving continuous quality improvement, clinical risk identification
and mitigation, and managing medico-legal matters. Proven experience with
supervising staff, training junior doctors, and managing financial and other
resources, with the ability to develop staff of quality and provide leadership with
regards to issues of diversity, transformation and equity. Track record in training
of both under-graduate and post-graduate healthcare personnel. Computer
literate in MS package.
DUTIES : Fulfil the role and duties of Head of the ENT Department in rendering an
efficient and cost-effective specialized ENT service to patients managed by the
Witbank Tertiary Hospital, including the delivery of outreach and support
services. Ensure clinical governance and quality management for the ENT
Service at Witbank Tertiary Hospital and respond to medical and legal incidents
as they arise. Ensure the rational use of resources (including laboratory
investigations, medication, consumables and equipment) and manage human,
financial and capital resources in the ENT Department. Deliver effective and
efficient management of the ENT Department, and provide strategic
leadership, planning and decision-making as a member of the Hospital
Executive Management. Plan and partake in the training of staff including
Registrars, Medical Officers, Community Service Medical Officers and Interns.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/169 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: ENT REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/805
SALARY : R2 168 145 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in ENT (2026). A
minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in ENT. Inherent requirement
of the job: It will be expected of the successful Head: Clinical Unit to work
commuted overtime, limited to 12 hours, if operational requirements so
demand. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge
of the relevant statutory and policy frameworks, including Healthcare 2030, the
Ideal Hospital framework, the Regulated Norms and Standards, EDL, Standard
145
Treatment Guidelines and evidence-based clinical care. Clinical service
delivery in accordance with the Level 2 & 3 package of care for ENT, and
experience in driving continuous quality improvement, clinical risk identification
and mitigation, and managing medico-legal matters. Proven experience with
supervising staff, training junior doctors, and managing financial and other
resources, with the ability to develop staff of quality and provide leadership with
regards to issues of diversity, transformation and equity. Track record in training
of both under-graduate and post-graduate healthcare personnel. Computer
literate in MS package.
DUTIES : Fulfil the role and duties of Head of the ENT Department in rendering an
efficient and cost-effective specialized ENT service to patients managed by the
Witbank Tertiary Hospital, including the delivery of outreach and support
services. Ensure clinical governance and quality management for the ENT
Service at Witbank Tertiary Hospital and respond to medical and legal incidents
as they arise. Ensure the rational use of resources (including laboratory
investigations, medication, consumables and equipment) and manage human,
financial and capital resources in the ENT Department. Deliver effective and
efficient management of the ENT Department, and provide strategic
leadership, planning and decision-making as a member of the Hospital
Executive Management. Plan and partake in the training of staff including
Registrars, Medical Officers, Community Service Medical Officers and Interns.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/170 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: PSYCHIATRIC REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/806
SALARY : R2 168 145 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatric (2026).
A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Psychiatric. Inherent
requirement of the job: It will be expected of the successful Head: Clinical Unit
to work commuted overtime, limited to 12 hours, if operational requirements so
demand. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge
of the relevant statutory and policy frameworks, including Healthcare 2030, the
Ideal Hospital framework, the Regulated Norms and Standards, EDL, Standard
Treatment Guidelines and evidence-based clinical care. Clinical service
delivery in accordance with the Level 2 & 3 package of care for Psychiatric,
and experience in driving continuous quality improvement, clinical risk
identification and mitigation, and managing medico-legal matters. Proven
experience with supervising staff, training junior doctors, and managing
financial and other resources, with the ability to develop staff of quality and
provide leadership with regards to issues of diversity, transformation and
equity. Track record in training of both under-graduate and post-graduate
healthcare personnel. Computer literate in MS package.
DUTIES : Fulfil the role and duties of Head of the Psychiatric Department in rendering an
efficient and cost-effective specialized Psychiatric service to patients managed
by the Witbank Tertiary Hospital, including the delivery of outreach and support
services. Ensure clinical governance and quality management for the
Psychiatric Service at Witbank Tertiary Hospital and respond to medical and
legal incidents as they arise. Ensure the rational use of resources (including
laboratory investigations, medication, consumables and equipment) and
manage human, financial and capital resources in the Psychiatric Department.
Deliver effective and efficient management of the Psychiatric Department, and
provide strategic leadership, planning and decision-making as a member of the
Hospital Executive Management. Plan and partake in the training of staff
including Registrars, Medical Officers, Community Service Medical Officers
and Interns.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
146
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/171 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: PLASTIC SURGERY REF.
NO: MPDoH/May/26/807
SALARY : R2 168 145 - R2 301 186 pera nnum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery
(2026). A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Plastic
Surgery. Inherent requirement of the job: It will be expected of the successful
Head: Clinical Unit to work commuted overtime, limited to 12 hours, if
operational requirements so demand. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the relevant statutory and policy frameworks,
including Healthcare 2030, the Ideal Hospital framework, the Regulated Norms
and Standards, EDL, Standard Treatment Guidelines and evidence-based
clinical care. Clinical service delivery in accordance with the Level 2 & 3
package of care for Plastic Surgery, and experience in driving continuous
quality improvement, clinical risk identification and mitigation, and managing
medico-legal matters. Proven experience with supervising staff, training junior
doctors, and managing financial and other resources, with the ability to develop
staff of quality and provide leadership with regards to issues of diversity,
transformation and equity. Track record in training of both under-graduate and
post-graduate healthcare personnel. Computer literate in MS package.
DUTIES : Fulfil the role and duties of Head of the Plastic Surgery Department in rendering
an efficient and cost-effective specialized Plastic Surgery service to patients
managed by the Witbank Tertiary Hospital, including the delivery of outreach
and support services. Ensure clinical governance and quality management for
the Plastic Surgery Service at Witbank Tertiary Hospital and respond to medical
and legal incidents as they arise. Ensure the rational use of resources
(including laboratory investigations, medication, consumables and equipment)
and manage human, financial and capital resources in the Plastic Surgery
Department. Deliver effective and efficient management of the Plastic Surgery
Department, and provide strategic leadership, planning and decision-making
as a member of the Hospital Executive Management. Plan and partake in the
training of staff including Registrars, Medical Officers, Community Service
Medical Officers and Interns.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/172 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: NEUROLOGY REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/808
SALARY : R2 168 145 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Neurology (2026).
A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Neurology. Inherent
requirement of the job: It will be expected of the successful Head: Clinical Unit
to work commuted overtime, limited to 12 hours, if operational requirements so
demand. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge
of the relevant statutory and policy frameworks, including Healthcare 2030, the
Ideal Hospital framework, the Regulated Norms and Standards, EDL, Standard
Treatment Guidelines and evidence-based clinical care. Clinical service
delivery in accordance with the Level 2 & 3 package of care for Neurology, and
experience in driving continuous quality improvement, clinical risk identification
and mitigation, and managing medico-legal matters. Proven experience with
supervising staff, training junior doctors, and managing financial and other
resources, with the ability to develop staff of quality and provide leadership with
regards to issues of diversity, transformation and equity. Track record in training
of both under-graduate and post-graduate healthcare personnel. Computer
literate in MS package.
147
DUTIES : Fulfil the role and duties of Head of the Neurology Department in rendering an
efficient and cost-effective specialized Neurology service to patients managed
by the Witbank Tertiary Hospital, including the delivery of outreach and support
services. Ensure clinical governance and quality management for the
Neurology Service at Witbank Tertiary Hospital and respond to medical and
legal incidents as they arise. Ensure the rational use of resources (including
laboratory investigations, medication, consumables and equipment) and
manage human, financial and capital resources in the Neurology Department.
Deliver effective and efficient management of the Neurology Department, and
provide strategic leadership, planning and decision-making as a member of the
Hospital Executive Management. Plan and partake in the training of staff
including Registrars, Medical Officers, Community Service Medical Officers
and Interns.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/173 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (SUB-SPECIALITY) GRADE 1 - 3: CLINICAL
HAEMATOLOGY REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/809
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 615 818 - R1 713 534 per annum
Grade 2: R1 844 151 - R1 956 582 per.annum
Grade 3: R2 014 273 - R2 301 186 per.annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist (Sub Speciality) in
Clinical Haematology (2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-
South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations and
policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination, clinical
assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-
year relevant experience after registration with a recognized Foreign
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Clinical Haematology)
for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant experience after
registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Clinical Haematology) for qualified foreign
employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of
eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized
foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist
(Clinical Haematology) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Clinical Haematology and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
148
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/174 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (SUB-SPECIALITY) GRADE 1 - 3: CARDIOLOGY
REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/810
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 615 818 - R1 713 534 per.annum
Grade 2: R1 844 151 - R1 956 582 per .annum
Grade 3: R2 014 273 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist (Sub Speciality) in
Cardiology (2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans.
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of
current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience
after registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist (Cardiology) for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Cardiology) for qualified
foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Cardiology) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Cardiology and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/175 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (SUB-SPECIALITY) GRADE 1 - 3:
NEURODEVELOPMENTAL/PAEDIATRIC NEUROLOGY REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/811
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 615 818 - R1 713 534 per .annum
149
Grade 2: R1 844 151 - R1 956 582 per .annum
Grade 3: R2 014 273 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist (Sub Speciality) in
Neurodevelopmental / Paediatric Neurology (2026). A valid work permit will be
required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None after registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of one
1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized Foreign
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Neurodevelopmental
/ Paediatric Neurology) for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum
of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Neurodevelopmental /
Paediatric Neurology) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of
ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Neurodevelopmental /
Paediatric Neurology) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Neurodevelopmental /
Paediatric Neurology and coordinate services. To execute duties and functions
with proficiency, to support the aims and objectives of the institution that
consistent with standards of patient care. Accept responsibility for the
management of patients admitted in a level 2/3 package of service facility.
Assist in the preparation and implementation of guidelines and protocols.
Participate in academic and training programs. Assist with clinical audits
actively participate in continuous professional development. Provide support to
hospital management towards an efficient standard of patient care and
services maintained. Comply with the performance Management and
Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/176 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (SUB-SPECIALITY) GRADE 1 - 3: INTENSIVIST
REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/812
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 615 818 - R1 713 534 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 844 151 - R1 956 582 per .annum
Grade 3: R2 014 273 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist (Sub Speciality) in
Intensivist (2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans.
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of
current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
150
Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience
after registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist (Intensivist) for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Intensivist) for qualified
foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Intensivist) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Intensivist and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/177 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (SUB-SPECIALITY) GRADE 1 - 3: NEONATOLOGY
REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/813
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 615 818 - R1 713 534 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 844 151 - R1 956 582 per .annum
Grade 3: R2 014 273 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist (Sub Speciality) in
Neonatology (2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience
after registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist (Neonatology) for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2:
A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Neonatology) for qualified
foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Neonatology) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
151
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Neonatology and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/178 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: RADIOLOGY REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/815 (2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per .annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District) and Witbank Hospital (Nkangala
District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Radiology (2026).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Radiology)
for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant experience after
registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Radiology) for qualified foreign employees.
Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11)
years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Radiology) for
qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences
required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working
hours and work with diverse team. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health
policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach
and guide junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress
tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and
maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Radiology and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
152
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/179 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: ANESTHESIOLOGY REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/818 (3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per .annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (1) (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (2) (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Anesthesiology
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Anesthesiology) for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2:
A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Anesthesiology) for
qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Anesthesiology) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Anesthesiology and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
153
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/180 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: NEUROSURGERY REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/819
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per .annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Neurosurgery
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Neurosurgery) for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Neurosurgery) for qualified
foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Neurosurgery) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Neurosurgery and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/181 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: GERIATRICS REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/820
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per .annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Geriatrics (2026).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
154
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Geriatrics)
for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant experience after
registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Geriatrics) for qualified foreign employees.
Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11)
years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Geriatrics) for
qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences
required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working
hours and work with diverse team. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health
policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach
and guide junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress
tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and
maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Geriatrics and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/182 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: ORTHOPAEDIC REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/821
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per .annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Orthopaedic) for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Orthopaedic) for qualified
foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
155
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Orthopaedic) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Orthopaedic and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/183 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: GENERAL SURGERY REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/823 (2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per .annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District) and Witbank Hospital (Nkangala
District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in General Surgery
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (General Surgery) for foreign qualified employees. Grade:
2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (General Surgery) for
qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (General Surgery) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge,
skills, Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical
ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the
respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and
skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under
pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
156
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing General Surgery and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/184 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: CARDIOTHORACIC SURGEON REF.
NO: MPDoH/May/26/824
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Cardiothoracic
Surgeon (2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans.
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of
current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience
after registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist (Cardiothoracic Surgeon) for foreign qualified employees.
Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6)
years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Cardiothoracic
Surgeon) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience
after registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Cardiothoracic Surgeon) for qualified
foreign employees. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required.
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical
knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to
work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and
work with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Cardiothoracic Surgeon and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
157
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/185 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: PLASTIC SURGERY REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/825
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per .annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Plastic Surgery) for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2:
A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Plastic Surgery) for
qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Plastic Surgery) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Plastic Surgery and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/186 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: ENT REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/827 (2
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per .annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per .annum
158
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District) and Witbank Hospital (Nkangala
District)
REQUIREMENT : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in ENT (2026). A valid
work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of
medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (ENT) for
foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (ENT) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten
(10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience
after registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (ENT) for qualified foreign employees.
Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of
medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency
and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and
under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing ENT and coordinate services.
To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/187 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: EMERGENCY MEDICINE REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/828
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per .annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Emergency
Medicine 2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans.
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of
current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience
after registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist (Emergency Medicine) for foreign qualified employees.
Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the
159
HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6)
years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Emergency
Medicine) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience
after registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Emergency Medicine) for qualified foreign
employees. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Emergency Medicine and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/188 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: RECONSTRUCTIVE & PLASTIC
SURGERY REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/829
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per .annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Reconstructive &
Plastic Surgery 2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience
after registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist (Reconstructive & Plastic Surgery) for foreign qualified
employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of
six (6) years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign
health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist
(Reconstructive & Plastic Surgery) for qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A
minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11) years’
relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Reconstructive
& Plastic Surgery) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills, Training
and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
160
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Reconstructive & Plastic
Surgery and coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with
proficiency, to support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent
with standards of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of
patients admitted in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the
preparation and implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in
academic and training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate
in continuous professional development. Provide support to hospital
management towards an efficient standard of patient care and services
maintained. Comply with the performance Management and Development
System (conducting quarterly reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/189 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: PSYCHIATRIC REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/830
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per .annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatric 2026).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Psychiatric)
for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant experience after
registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Psychiatric) for qualified foreign employees.
Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11)
years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Psychiatric) for
qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences
required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working
hours and work with diverse team. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health
policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach
and guide junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress
tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and
maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Psychiatric and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
161
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/190 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: CRITICAL CARE REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/831
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per .annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per .annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per .annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Critical Care 2026).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Critical Care)
for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant experience after
registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Critical Care) for qualified foreign employees.
Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11)
years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Critical Care)
for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences
required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working
hours and work with diverse team. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health
policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach
and guide junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress
tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and
maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Critical Care and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
162
POST 18/191 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: PHYSICIAN REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/832
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Physician 2026). A
valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Physician)
for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant experience after
registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Physician) for qualified foreign employees.
Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11)
years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Physician) for
qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences
required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working
hours and work with diverse team. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health
policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach
and guide junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress
tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and
maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Physician and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POS 18/192 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: NEUROLOGIST REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/833
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Neurology 2026).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
163
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Neurology)
for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant experience after
registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Neurology) for qualified foreign employees.
Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11)
years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Neurology) for
qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences
required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working
hours and work with diverse team. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health
policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach
and guide junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress
tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and
maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Neurology and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/193 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: GASTROENTEROLOGY REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/834
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Gastroenterology
2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Gastroenterology) for foreign qualified employees. Grade:
2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Gastroenterology) for
qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
164
Specialist (Gastroenterology) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge,
skills, Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical
ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the
respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and
skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under
pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Gastroenterology and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/194 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: PAEDIATRIC SURGERY REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/835
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatric Surgery
2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Paediatric Surgery) for foreign qualified employees. Grade:
2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Paediatric Surgery) for
qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Paediatric Surgery) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge,
skills, Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical
ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the
respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and
skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under
pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Paediatric Surgery and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
165
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/195 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (SUB-SPECIALITY) GRADE 1 - 3: RADIOLOGY
REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/837 (2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 615 818 - R1 713 534 per annum
Grade 2: R1 844 151 - R1 956 582 per annum
Grade 3: R2 014 273 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District) and Witbank Hospital (Nkangala
District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Radiology (2026).
A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge
of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public
Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized
Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Radiology)
for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2: A minimum of five (5) years’
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant experience after
registration with a recognized foreign health profession council and / or the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Radiology) for qualified foreign employees.
Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Minimum of eleven (11)
years’ relevant experience after registration with a recognized foreign health
profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Radiology) for
qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences
required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work independently and under pressure and beyond normal working
hours and work with diverse team. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health
policies, legislation, programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach
and guide junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress
tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and
maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Radiology and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
166
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/196 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (SUB-SPECIALITY) GRADE 1 - 3: RADIOLOGY
REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/839 (2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 615 818 - R1 713 534 per annum
Grade 2: R1 844 151 - R1 956 582 per annum
Grade 3: R2 014 273 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District) and Witbank Hospital (Nkangala
District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Internal Medicine) for foreign qualified employees. Grade:
2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Internal Medicine) for
qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Internal Medicine) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge,
skills, Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical
ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the
respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and
skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under
pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Internal Medicine and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/197 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 3: INTERNAL MEDICINE REF NO:
MPDoH/May/26/842 (3 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 375 245 - R1 713 534 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (1) (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (2) (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner n Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
167
a Medical Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will
be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Additional experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Neurosurgery, Anaesthesiology, Urology and ENT will serve as
recommendation. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant experience
after registration with a recognised foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign
qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required:
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical
knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to
work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good communication,
leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to manage patients
independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and priorities
within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Assist with clinical audits
actively participate in continuous professional development. Provide support to
hospital management towards an efficient standard of patient care and
services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/198 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 3: ENT REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/844 (2
POSTS)
SALARY : R1 375 245 - R1 713 534 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District) and Witbank Hospital (2) (Nkangala
District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner n Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will
be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Additional experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Neurosurgery, Anaesthesiology, Urology and ENT will serve as
recommendation. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant experience
after registration with a recognised foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign
qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required:
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical
knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to
work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good communication,
leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to manage patients
independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and priorities
within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the department.
168
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Assist with clinical audits
actively participate in continuous professional development. Provide support to
hospital management towards an efficient standard of patient care and
services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/199 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 3: INTRNAL MEDICINE REF NO:
MPDoH/May/26/846 (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 375 245 - R1 713 534 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District) and Witbank Hospital (2) (Nkangala
District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner n Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will
be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Additional experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Neurosurgery, Anaesthesiology, Urology and ENT will serve as
recommendation. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant experience
after registration with a recognised foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign
qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required:
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical
knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to
work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good communication,
leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to manage patients
independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and priorities
within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Assist with clinical audits
actively participate in continuous professional development. Provide support to
hospital management towards an efficient standard of patient care and
services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/200 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 3: CARDIOTHORACIC REF NO:
MPDoH/May/26/847
SALARY : R1 375 245 - R1 713 534 per annum
169
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner n Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will
be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Additional experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Neurosurgery, Anaesthesiology, Urology and ENT will serve as
recommendation. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant experience
after registration with a recognised foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign
qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required:
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical
knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to
work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good communication,
leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to manage patients
independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and priorities
within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Assist with clinical audits
actively participate in continuous professional development. Provide support to
hospital management towards an efficient standard of patient care and
services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/201 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 3: ANAESTHESIOLOGY REF NO:
MPDoH/May/26/850 (3 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 375 245 - R1 713 534 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (1) (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (2) (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner n Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will
be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Additional experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Neurosurgery, Anaesthesiology, Urology and ENT will serve as
recommendation. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant experience
after registration with a recognised foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign
qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required:
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical
knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to
work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good communication,
leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to manage patients
170
independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and priorities
within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Assist with clinical audits
actively participate in continuous professional development. Provide support to
hospital management towards an efficient standard of patient care and
services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/202 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 3: RADIOLOGY REF NO: MPDoH/May/26/853
(3 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 375 245 - R1 713 534 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (1) (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (2) (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner n Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will
be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Additional experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Neurosurgery, Anaesthesiology, Urology and ENT will serve as
recommendation. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant experience
after registration with a recognised foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign
qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required:
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical
knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to
work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good communication,
leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to manage patients
independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and priorities
within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Assist with clinical audits
actively participate in continuous professional development. Provide support to
hospital management towards an efficient standard of patient care and
services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
171
POST 18/203 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 3: PAEDIATRIC SURGERY REF NO:
MPDoH/May/26/854
SALARY : R1 375 245 - R1 713 534 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (2) (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner n Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will
be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Additional experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Neurosurgery, Anaesthesiology, Urology and ENT will serve as
recommendation. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant experience
after registration with a recognised foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign
qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required:
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical
knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to
work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good communication,
leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to manage patients
independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and priorities
within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Assist with clinical audits
actively participate in continuous professional development. Provide support to
hospital management towards an efficient standard of patient care and
services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/204 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 3: NEUROLOGY REF NO: MPDoH/May/26/855
SALARY : R1 375 245 - R1 713 534 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner n Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will
be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Additional experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Neurosurgery, Anaesthesiology, Urology and ENT will serve as
recommendation. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant experience
after registration with a recognised foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign
qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required:
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical
172
knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to
work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good communication,
leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to manage patients
independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and priorities
within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Assist with clinical audits
actively participate in continuous professional development. Provide support to
hospital management towards an efficient standard of patient care and
services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/205 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OFFICE OF THE CFO REF NO: MPDoH/May/26/856
SALARY : R932 292 per .annum (Level 11) (All-Inclusive Remuneration Package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an undergraduate relevant qualification (NQF
Level 7) in Finance / Financial Management / Management Accounting /
Auditing as recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) years’
relevant experience at supervisory / management level (ASD). Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures. Project Management. General
management. Strategic management. Treasury Regulations. Skills:
Leadership. Negotiating. Facilitation. Computer literacy. Presentation.
Innovative. Analytical. Planning and organising. Verbal and written
communication. Analysing and understanding Budgets. Ability to function
independently and work under pressure. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Receive, analyse and interpret all incoming correspondence, channel it to
relevant components for attention and make follow-ups where necessary,
Compile reports, act as Secretary during meetings and manage the budget of
the CFO’s office. Co-ordinate and facilitate the compilation of annual estimates
for the CFO’s Office. Assist in the development and implementation of strategic
plans. Ensure compliance with all legal frameworks and execute any other task
as directed by the CFO. Maintain confidentiality and promote the image of the
CFO’s office. Responsible for coordinating and consolidation of various
submissions to oversight bodies. Assist in preparing and maintaining the
progress of the audit action plan. Facilitate and Reconcile audit information.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/206 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): TRAUMA & EMERGENCY
(CASUALTY) REF NO: MPDoH/May/26/857
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 454 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2026). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Trauma & Emergency Nursing Science. Diploma / Degree in Nursing
Administration and Management. Minimum of ten (09) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General
Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to above must be
173
appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the one (01)
year post basic qualification in Trauma & Emergency Nursing Science. At least
three (03) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience at Management Level. Skills: Knowledge
of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant
legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge
and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure, grievance
procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and problem-solving
abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy framework
Good interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict
handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and budgetary
prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Trauma & Emergency. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including
more complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization
and supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students. Monitor implementation
Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery. Support Nursing Services Management by working
weekend and night duty when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/207 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): ICU (NEURO WARD) REF
NO: MPDoH/May/26/858
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 454 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2026). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Intensive Care Nursing Science. Diploma / Degree in Nursing Administration
and Management. Minimum of ten (09) years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with South
African Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing At least six (05) years of
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable in the specific
specialty after obtaining the one (01) year post basic qualification in Intensive
Care Nursing Science. At least three (03) years of the period referred to above
must be appropriate/recognizable experience at Management Level. Skills:
Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and
other relevant legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational
Health and Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound
knowledge and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure,
grievance procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and
problem-solving abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional
policy framework Good interpersonal skills including public relations,
negotiating, conflict handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and
174
budgetary prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Intensive Care Unit. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including
more complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization
and supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students. Monitor implementation
Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery. Support Nursing Services Management by working
weekend and night duty when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/208 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): OPERATION THEATRE
REF NO: MPDoH/May/26/859
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 454 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2026). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Operation Theatre Nursing Science. Diploma / Degree in Nursing
Administration and Management. Minimum of ten (09) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General
Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the one (01)
year post basic qualification in Operation Theatre Nursing Science. At least
three (03) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience at Management Level. Skills: Knowledge
of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant
legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge
and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure, grievance
procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and problem-solving
abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy framework
Good interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict
handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and budgetary
prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Operation Theatre. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including
more complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization
and supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
175
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students. Monitor implementation
Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery. Support Nursing Services Management by working
weekend and night duty when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/209 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): ADVANCED MIDWIFRERY
REF NO: MPDoH/May/26/860
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 454 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2026). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Advanced Midwifery Nursing Science. Diploma / Degree in Nursing
Administration and Management. Minimum of ten (09) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General
Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the one (01)
year post basic qualification in Advanced Midwifery Nursing Science. At least
three (03) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience at Management Level. Skills: Knowledge
of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant
legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge
and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure, grievance
procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and problem-solving
abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy framework
Good interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict
handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and budgetary
prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Post Nata Unit. Demonstrate effective communication with patients,
supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including more
complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization and
supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students. Monitor implementation
Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
176
enhance service delivery. Support Nursing Services Management by working
weekend and night duty when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/210 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): CHILD NURSING /
ONCOLOGY REF NO: MPDoH/May/26/861
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 454 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2026). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Child Nursing / Oncology Nursing Science. Diploma / Degree in Nursing
Administration and Management. Minimum of ten (09) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General
Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the one (01)
year post basic qualification in Child Nursing / Oncology Nursing Science. At
least three (03) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience at Management Level. Skills: Knowledge
of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant
legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge
and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure, grievance
procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and problem-solving
abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy framework
Good interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict
handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and budgetary
prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Paediatric Surgical / Oncology Unit. Demonstrate effective
communication with patients, supervisors, other health professional and junior
colleagues including more complex report writing when required Effective
management, utilization and supervision of all resources Display a concern for
patients, promoting, advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and
ensure that the unit adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical
competence by ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical
governance are implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an
in-depth understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour
related issues in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision
and comply with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and
participate in training and development of staff and nursing students. Monitor
implementation Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and
Ideal Hospital Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service
delivery thereof. Co-ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and
monitor and evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a
support tool to enhance service delivery. Support Nursing Services
Management by working weekend and night duty when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
177
POST 18/211 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): NEPHROLOGY REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/873 (12 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
: Grade: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (4) (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (5)
Ermelo Hospital (3) (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Nephrology Nursing
Science. Grade 1: A mminimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the
(SANC). Grade 2: A mminimum of fourteen (14) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing. At least ten
(10) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic
qualification in relevant specialty. Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Nephrology Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stake holders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize,
coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/212 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): ONCOLOGY REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/880 (7 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
Grade: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (5) (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (2) (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Oncology Nursing
Science. Grade 1: A mminimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
Grade 2: A mminimum of fourteen (14) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing. At least ten (10) years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience in
the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic qualification in
178
relevant spec Oncology. Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Oncology Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stake holders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize,
coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/213 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): ADVANCED MIDWIFERY
REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/888 (8 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
Grade: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (4) (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (4) (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Advanced Midwifery
Nursing Science. Grade 1: A mminimum of four (4) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC. Grade 2: A mminimum of fourteen (14) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing. At least ten
(10) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic
qualification in Advanced Midwifery. Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Advanced Midwifery Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
179
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/214 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): ADVANCED
PSYCHIATRY REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/893 (5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
Grade: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (2) (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (3) (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Advanced Psychiatry
Nursing Science. Grade 1: A mminimum of four (4) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC. Grade 2: A mminimum of fourteen (14) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing. At least ten
(10) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic
qualification in Advanced Psychiatry. Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Advanced Psychiatry Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/215 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): ORTHOPAEDIC REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/898 (5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
Grade: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (1) (Ehlanzeni District) and Witbank Hospital (4)
(Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Orthopaedic Nursing
Science. Grade 1: A mminimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
180
Grade 2: A mminimum of fourteen (14) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing. At least ten (10) years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience in
the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic qualification in
Orthopaedic. Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Orthopaedic Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stake holders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize,
coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/216 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): PAEDIATRIC / CHILD
HEALTH REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/903 (5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (2) (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (3) (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Paediatric / Child
Health Nursing Science. Grade 1: A mminimum of four (4) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC. Grade 2: A mminimum of fourteen (14) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing. At least ten
(10) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic
qualification in Paediatric / Child Health. Ability to function independently and
to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving
and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Paediatric / Child Health Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
181
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/217 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): ICU REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/908 (5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Intensive Care Nursing
Science. Grade 1: A mminimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
Grade 2: A mminimum of fourteen (14) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing. At least ten (10) years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience in
the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic qualification in
Intensive Care Unit. Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Intensive Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management
of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stake holders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize,
coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/218 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): OPERATION THEATRE
REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/918 (10 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
: Grade 2: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (5) (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (5) (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
182
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Operating Theatre
Nursing Science. Grade 1: A mminimum of four (4) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC. Grade 2: A mminimum of fourteen (14) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing. At least ten
(10) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic
qualification in Operating Theatre. Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Intensive Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management
of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stake holders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize,
coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/219 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): TRAUMA & EMERGENCY
REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/923 (5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Trauma & Emergency
Nursing Science. Grade 1: A mminimum of four (4) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC. Grade 2: A mminimum of fourteen (14) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing. At least ten
(10) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic
qualification in Trauma & Emergency Unit. Ability to function independently and
to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving
and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Trauma & Emergency Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
183
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/220 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): OPHTHALMOLOGY REF.
NO: MPDoH/May/26/924
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Ophthalmology
Nursing Science. Grade 1: A mminimum of four (4) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC. Grade 2: A mminimum of fourteen (14) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing. At least ten
(10) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable
experience in the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic
qualification in Ophthalmology Unit. Ability to function independently and to
prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Ophthalmology Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management
of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stake holders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize,
coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/221 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-2 (PN-B1-2): NEURO SURGICAL REF.
NO: MPDoH/May/26/927 (3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
184
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Neuro Surgical Nursing
Science. Grade 1: A mminimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
Grade 2: A mminimum of fourteen (14) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) in General Nursing. At least ten (10) years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience in
the specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post basic qualification in
Neuro Surgical Unit. Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Neuro Surgical Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management
of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stake holders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize,
coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/222 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER:
DDG REF. NO: MPDoH/May/26/928
SALARY : R338 106 per.annum. (Level 7) (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus diploma in secretariat, Excellent MS Office
Skills, Knowledge of office administration. Experience in secretarial duties.
Good planning and organizational skills, good communication skills (verbal and
written) and the ability to communicate well with people at different levels and
from different backgrounds. Good telephone etiquette, computer literacy, basic
financial management and provisioning, high level of reliability. Must have
ability to work under pressure and must prepare to work long hours. Must be
able to type at least 40 words per minute.
DUTIES : To render a secretarial support services to the Chief Financial Officer: DDG.
Provides a secretarial functions and support to the Chief Financial Officer: DDG
daily. Daily management of incoming and outgoing of internal correspondence.
Daily rendering of administrative support service and budget expenditure to the
office of the Chief Financial Officer: DDG. Weekly provisioning of service to the
office of the Chief Financial Officer: DDG.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 18/223 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF. NO:
MPDoH/May/26/931 (3 POSTS)
On A Three (3) Year Contract: Unemployed Graduate
SALARY : R338 106 per.annum. (Level 7) (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
185
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in
Accounting / Finance / Financial Management / Management Accounting as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge and experience of provisioning
administration, focus in the following areas: LOGIS, Preferential Procurement
Policy Framework (PPPFA), Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and
Treasury Regulations and general knowledge of Basic accounting system
(BAS). Computer literacy. Sound interpersonal and communication skills
(written and verbal). Good management and supervisory skills. Ability to work
independently and tight deadlines. Valid driver’s licence will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Capturing of receipts and journals on BAS. Process debtor’s accounts.
Monitoring of PEIS accounts. Billing of PAIA accounts. Administer sectional
logistics. Collect cash and deposit. Prepare reconciliation and financial reports.
Request reports on BAS for submission to Treasury. Consolidate revenue
information as received from various facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
186
ANNEXURE Z
PROVINCIAL ADMNISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representatively (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts. All
candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representatively will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the relevant reference should be forwarded as follows:
The Head of the Department, Post To: Department of Economic Development
and Tourism P/Bag X6108, Kimberley, 8300 or Hand Deliver to: MetLife
Towers, (Post Office Building), T Floor (Registry Office), Post Office Building,
Kimberley or Email applications to: dedathra@ncpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : MS. M. Musa
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to the
address specified above. The application must include a duly completed and
signed new Form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at https://www.dpsa.gov.za/, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae CV;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please note a separate application is required for each position
applied for. Applications received using the incorrect application for
employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for employment
form must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant. Failure to
fully complete, initial and sign this form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. Applicants are not required to
submit/attach copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on
application but must submit the new (Z83) form and detailed curriculum vitae
only. The provision of certified documents will only be required from shortlisted
candidates for submission on or before the day of the interview following a
formal communication from Human Resources unit. In instances where
applicants are in possession of a foreign qualification, it is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and only submit proof of such evaluation upon
being shortlisted for a post. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other will be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Holders will be required to
submit a copy of their Permanent Residence Permits only if shortlisted.
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned instruction/
requirements, as well as applications received late will not be considered. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the above
post/s. Applications, including those submitted via registered mail must reach
the department before 16:00 on the day of the closing date. Incomplete
applications, or applications received after the closing date will be disqualified.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within 3 months of the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Please note that suitable
candidates will be subjected to a technical assessment as well as satisfactory
personnel suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial-asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification. Successful candidates will also be subjected to a
security clearance process. Women and persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. The successful candidate will be required to sign the
performance agreement within three months from the date of assumption of
duty. It will also be required that the successful candidate declare to the EA
particulars of all registrable financial interests. Short-listed candidates will be
expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. The successful
candidate will be appointed subject to positive results of the security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Appointment of these positions will be provisional, pending the issue of security
clearance. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer.
The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the employment
decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and
disability) through the filling of this post(s).
187
OTHER POST
POST 18/224 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: KNOWLEDGE ECONOMY SUPPORT (KES) REF NO:
NCDEDAT/2026/04
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195.per annum (All-inclusive TCE package) (Level 11)
CENTRE : Kimberley Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of NQF 7 Degree in Data Science/
Information Systems/ or Knowledge Management. 3-4 years’ experience on
ASD level (Junior Management level) in the Public Service, with proven
responsibility for managing projects in the science innovation space. Added
advantage: demonstrated proven experience in at least two of the following
domains: Economic development or science diplomacy initiatives, Data and
Knowledge Management (including information systems, knowledge
management or data analytics to support decision-making) or Stakeholder and
intergovernmental coordination involving government, academia, industry and
communities. Exposure to, or experience with, initiatives linked to the
knowledge economy (e.g. SKA and Astronomy Geographic Advantage, digital
innovation ecosystems, MSME innovation support, or similar programmes).
Knowledge & Skills: Understanding of radio astronomy and knowledge of the
SKA project, Management of relationships with internal and external
stakeholders, Astronomy Geographic Advantage Act and regulatory
frameworks. National development frameworks (e.g., NDP, STI White Papers),
National System of Innovation (e.g. NACI, CPSI, RISP, TIA, CSIR), Software
tools for data analysis, interpretation, and visualization. Provincial priorities
(e.g., MTDF, Northern Cape Growth and Development Strategy), Supply chain
policies e.g. PFMA Data analytics, Data interpretation, Data visualization,
Technology Readiness Level, Information systems architecture, Knowledge
Management, Advanced project lifecycle management, People/ Stakeholder
management and engagement, Problem Solving, Change Management,
Report Writing, Innovation orientation, Policy development, Research,
Technical, Report Writing, Strategic planning, Leadership, Financial
management.
DUTIES : Develop/ design, implement and integrate data, and knowledge management
systems within the department: Support the promotion of the knowledge
economy and information society in the organization and the province.
Developing software applications which also includes the management and
maintenance thereof. Establish a centralized digital repository for institutional
knowledge to ensure long-term retention and accessibility. Implementing
Change management interventions with upskilling interventions in terms of
systems/databases integration within the department. Stakeholder
Engagement and Intergovernmental Coordination: Maintaining partnerships
with government entities, academic institutions, and industry leaders to foster
innovation and economic development. Engage with communities to ensure
inclusive participation in SKA-related and other innovative projects. Attending
and participating in national, provincial and local stakeholder forums. Maintain
strategic partnerships with internal and external stakeholders, including
government departments, public entities, communities, academic institutions
and other industry leaders. Promoting, implementing and managing data
science /innovation-related projects and/or strategies within the department:
Promote the use of cutting-edge technologies, such as artificial intelligence,
broadband connectivity, and big data analytics, in the Provincial and
Departmental digital ecosystems to enhance decision-making and promote the
digital economy in the province. Develop and implement project plans,
performance indicators, and delivery timelines to ensure on-time, within-budget
project execution. Provide operational leadership in the management,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of human resources and activities
within the Knowledge Economy Support unit: Management of human
resources including: Discipline management, Training and Development,
PMDS, Attendance and leave management, General management in terms of
Budget monitoring, Input, preparation, implementation, monitoring and
reporting on Strategic/ Annual Performance/ Operational and HR Plan of the
unit, Management of governance structures and systems, Utilisation and care
of assets within the unit, Recordkeeping and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. Grewan Tel No: (053) 839 4106
188
NORTHERN CAPE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service Administration website. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed/comprehensive Curriculum Vitae,
indicating positions held, dates and key performance responsibilities. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their
qualifications and relevant documents on or before the day of the interview
proceedings following communication from the Human Resource Management
Recruitment and Selection Unit. Failure to submit the requested documents or
information will result in your application not being considered. The
employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the
Northern Cape Department of Health. Should an applicant wish to apply for
more than one post, separate applications must be submitted for all posts. If
you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal
record, residential address, qualification verification and employment
verification). Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be expected
to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representavity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan. For all SMS positions, the
successful completion of the Public Service Senior Management Leadership
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government. The SMS
Pre-Entry Certificate is required prior to appointment. For more details on the
pre-entry course visit: https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse /sms-pre-
entry-programme.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 18/225 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER: REF NO 61/2026 (1 POST)
SALARY : R1 317 108.per annum (salary will be based on years of experience post
registration as a Professional Professional Construction Manager)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An Honors Degree/ BTech in the Built Environment with a minimum of six (6)
year’s post qualification experience in construction project management.
Registered as a Professional Project Manager with SACPCMP is compulsory.
A valid Driver’s Licence. Knowledge of programme and project management.
Problem solving and analysis skills, Conflict management skills and computer
literacy
DUTIES : To assist to manage the delivery of the infrastructure built environment
programmes and projects in line with the Provincial IDMS. Assist to prepare
the construction procurement strategy and the Infrastructure Programme
Management Plan. Assist prepare Packages/Individual Project Briefs.
Contribute to the review and acceptance of the Infrastructure Programme
Implementation Plan. Assist to monitor the implementation of
programmes/Projects. Make inputs to different Project Stage reports and
designs. Assist to manage the interface between the end- user/ community
structures and implementing Agent/s
ENQUIRIES : Mr X. Mpekelana Tel no: (053) 8302 1177
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the front reception of James
Exum Building or E-Mailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
189
POST 18/226 : ELECTRICAL ENGINEER: NCDOH 62/2026 (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R914 517.per annum (salary will be based on the years of experience post
registration as a Professional Engineer with ECSA)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENT : Degree in Engineering, Registered as a Professional Engineer with ECSA
(Electrical Engineer), 3 (three) years’ experience post qualification in
Engineering, A valid driver’s Licence, Computer literacy
DUTIES : To assist to manage the delivery of the infrastructure built environment
programmes and projects in line with the Provincial IDMS. Assist to prepare
the construction procurement strategy in the Infrastructure Programme
Management Plan. Assist to prepare Packages/Individual Project Briefs.
Contribute to the review and acceptance of the Infrastructure Programme
Implementation Plan. Assist to monitor the reports and designs. Assist to
manage the interface between the end – user/community structures and
Implementing Agent/s
ENQUIRIES : Mr X. Mpekelana, Tel no: (053) 8302 1177
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the front reception of James
Exum Building or E-Mailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
POST 18/227 : MECHANICAL ENGINEER: REF NO NCDOH 63/2026 (1 POST)
SALARY : R901 517.per annum (salary will be based on years of experience post
registration as a Professional Engineer with ECSA)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Engineering. Registered as a Professional Engineer with ECSA
(Mechanical Engineer). Three years’ experience post qualification. A valid
Driver’s Licence. Computer Literate
DUTIES : To assist to manage the delivery of the infrastructure built environment
programmes and projects in line with the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery
Management System (IDMS). Prepare the construction of procurement
strategy and the Programme Management Plan. Prepare and /or approve
Packages / Individual Project Briefs. Participate in the procurement of
Professional Service Providers and Contractors. Contribute to the review and
acceptance of the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Monitor the
implementation of programmes/projects. Approve project stage reports and
designs. Manage the interface between end user/community structures and
implanting agent/s.
ENQUIRIES : Mr X. Mpekelana, Tel no: (053) 8302 1177
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the front reception of James
Exum Building or E-Mailed at nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za
POST 18/228 : ARTISAN GRADE A- C REF NO: NCDOH 64/2026 (4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R253 341.per annum
Grade B: R297 249.per annum
Grade C: R345 342.per annum
CENTRE : Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Senior Certificate. A valid Driver’s Licence. The incumbent must be
in possession of a prescribed level of qualification as determined by the
relevant trade and meet the relevant statutory requirements by successful
completion of a recognised trade test. Appropriate trade test certificate in the
following identified fields; Electrical, Plumber, Boiler Maker, Air Conditioning,
Fitter and Turner and Painter. Competencies Technical - Technical analysis
knowledge, computer aided technical applications, knowledge of legal
compliance, technical report writing, production, process knowledge and skills.
Competencies Generic – problem solving and analysis, decision making, team
work, analytical skills, creativity, self-management, customer focus and
responsiveness, communication, computer skills, planning and organizing.
DUTIES : To render technical design, production, operation and maintenance services.
Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and
facilities according to standards. Test repair equipment and/or facilities against
specifications. Service equipment and/or facilities against specifications.
Service equipment and/or facilities according to schedule. Quality assure
serviced and maintained equipment and/or facilities. Perform administrative
and related functions- Compile and submit reports. Provide inputs to the
operational plan. Keep and maintain job record/register. Supervise and mentor
190
staff. Maintain expertise – continuous individual development to keep up with
new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Sandt Tel: 8022 2326.
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the HRM Registry, 3rd Floor
Admin Building or E-Mailed at rmshhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must
complete an application register when an application is hand delivered
191
ANNEXURE AA
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE, PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 18/229 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC RADIOLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Diagnostic Radiology. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Diagnostic
Radiology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist in Diagnostic Radiology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Specialist in Diagnostic Radiology (or recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees). Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Diagnostic Radiology (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees). Inherent requirements of the job: 40-hour work week plus
overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Efficient, effective, and
appropriate assessment diagnosis, investigation, technical skills and treatment
in inpatient, outpatient, and emergency contexts. Communication skills
including report generation, letter writing, consultation, verbal skills, liaison with
support service, nursing and Professions Allied to Medicine. Work commitment
including willingness to volunteer, teaching and training/supervision of junior
staff, research and outreach. Computer literacy and the ability to develop and
work with databases. Ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): To provide full time diagnostic radiology services to
patients accessing care at RCWMCH and within the broader health ecosystem
ensuring, as part of a team, continuous improvements in the quality, efficiency
and outcome of the management of children. After hours cover as a specialist
radiologist. Active participation in all the activities of the division including
participation in multidisciplinary clinical meetings, teaching and supervising
radiology registrars in training and other healthcare personnel. Where
applicable, involved in research in the field, audits and provision of services to
other institutions on the healthcare platform.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Pillay, tel.no. (021) 658-5101
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
192
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/230 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (UROLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Urology. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Urology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Urology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Urology.
Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience after registration with
the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Urology. Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to perform urologic surgery at a tertiary level. Have
research experience. Experience in Adult and Paediatric Urology, renal
transplantation, laparoscopic surgery, trauma, endourological and oncological
surgery.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Contribute to the under and post grad training and
research agenda of the Division. Organise and contribute to the surgical skills
training courses. Oversee day surgery, surgical clinics and surgical
emergencies. Supervision and performance of major Urology surgery,
Laparoscopic surgery, laparoscopic surgery, trauma, endourological and
oncological surgery. The management of specialist urological patients within
the Division of Urology and at related hospitals to Groote Schuur Hospital. To
provide services (operative and OPD consulting) at Eerste River and Western
Cape Rehabilitation Hospitals.
ENQUIRIES : Prof J Lazarus, tel. no. (021) 406-6105
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Please ensure that you attach an
updated CV. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem
framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all Medical Specialists
appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and may include
rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War
Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District
Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial Hospital.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/231 : DENTAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (DENTAL PROSTHETICS SERVICES)
(2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R 1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R 1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R 1 844 151 per annum A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Dental Specialist in Prosthodontics. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Dental Specialist in Prosthodontics.
193
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Dental
Specialist in Prosthodontics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as Dental Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Dental Specialist in Prosthodontics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years appropriate experience as Dental Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
foreign qualified employee) as a Dental Specialist in Prosthodontics. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver's licence (the successful
incumbent will be required to provide services across the Oral Health platform).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work independently and in a multi-
disciplinary team. Good computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook).
Appropriate experience as Dental Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
as a Dental Specialist in the speciality Prosthodontics.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Implementation, monitoring and evaluation of dental
services on the Oral Health Teaching platform. Supervision and leadership role
with regards to teaching, training and education of post-graduate and under-
graduate students. Performing administrative activities relating to the position.
Operational and clinical research. Render specialist dental services at the Oral
Health Teaching platform. Provide leadership and management within the Oral
Health Teaching platform.
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Khan, tel. no. (021) 937-3006
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/232 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (ADULT CARDIOLOGY) (3 YEAR
CONTRACT)
SALARY : R1 395 528 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Internal
Medicine (Independent Practice). Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to work after hours. The position will be full-
time (40 hours per week). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills. Experience in Cardiology or Cardiac Imaging. Previous
research experience. Cardiology specific accredited courses attended.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Successful completion of the MPhil (Cardio).
Successful completion of the Cert Cardio Phys (SA) which includes all the
logbook requirements of the college of Medicine. Participating fully in all
activities of the division. Conducting research into cardiac disease prevalent in
South Africa. Rendering a comprehensive and quality clinical service in specific
areas in consultation with the clinical head of the department. Effective delivery
of training, teaching and operational research. Effective administration and
medico-legal duties.
ENQUIRIES : Prof AJK Pacoraro, tel no. (021) 9384400/ pacoraro@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
194
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.-Appointment as
Senior Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 3 years. It may
become necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during
their period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to
any decision being implemented. Senior Registrars will function across health
facilities, as per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a
student be discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Senior Registrar
also discontinues. Consideration will be given to existing employees who are
already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as
personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as
Senior Registrar will be on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue
with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar, will be required to resign after
completion of their registrarship should they not be successful for advertised
Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The Department of Health is guided by the
principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to
apply and an indication in this regard will be appreciated. Specific Senior
Registrar posts within the Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative
Action programme to create a representative Specialist cadre in line with
applicable procedures. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent
residents with a valid identity document. Senior Registrars will be required to
register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch University according to the
yearbook and guidelines.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/233 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Clanwilliam Hospital, Cederberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees.
1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s
license (B/EB/C1). Willingness to relieve at Primary Healthcare Clinics within
the Sub-district. Willingness to rotate. Willingness to partake in the Commuted
Overtime system at Clanwilliam Hospital. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part of a multi-
disciplinary team. Good communication, interpersonal relationships,
exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills. Basic computer skills in
MS Word, Excel and Outlook. Knowledge of relevant legislation, policies and
protocols of the Department of Health Western Cape.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Deliver a general clinical service to a District Level
Hospital. Deliver a general clinical service to a sub-district Primary Health Care
Platform. Clinical Governance including quality care of patients, teaching and
training. Ethics & Integrity and assistance to Family Physician.
195
ENQUIRIES : Dr C Adams, tel. no. (022) 921-2153
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/234 : MEDICAL OFFICER: GRADE 1 TO 3 (2 YEAR CONTRACT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum A portion of the package can be structured to
meet the individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of South
African (SA)-qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after
registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in SA. Grade 2: A
minimum of five years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified
employees. A minimum of six years relevant experience after registration as a
Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in SA. Grade 3: A minimum of ten years
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A
minimum of eleven years relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in SA. Inherent requirements of the job: Applicants must
have a valid APLS/ PALS/ NLS certificate. Willingness to perform commuted
overtime, work after hours and public holidays, to ensure continuous and
uninterrupted patient care. A valid driver’s licence. Willingness to work off-site
at the MOU and provide outreach to high-risk clinics. Willingness to provide
outreach at 2-Military Hospital ward rounds. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Post-internship experience in neonatology under on-site supervision of a
registered paediatrician/ neonatologist. Completion of (or exemption from)
South African Community Service. Ability to achieve and maintain good
interpersonal relations with staff, patients and their families. Competence in
neonatal resuscitation and providing comprehensive neonatal routine and
emergency care in an intensive care environment. Provision of high-standard
in-patient and outreach services. Capable of teamwork, planning, organisation
and coordination. Must have excellent clinical note keeping, referral and
complex medical report writing skills.Excellent interpersonal, communication,
analytical, problem-solving, time management and administrative skills.
Display empathy for patients, promote advocacy and strive for clinical service
excellence despite resource constraints. Provision of outreach and support to
the Metro West Districts. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide high-quality clinical service to patients and
their families, adhering to evidence-based management protocols. Clinical
leadership in the workplace. Participation in patient statistics collection, eCCR
patient management system and other WCG health applications. Effective and
efficient administration of clinical services. Working and communicating well
196
with nursing staff, allied professionals and all students rotating at the facility.
Supervision of junior medical staff to ensure high quality of care and good
clinical outcomes. Ward-based formal and informal teaching and training of
junior staff and undergraduate medical students. Actively participate in skills
transfer, training, and all relevant academic opportunities. Improve professional
competence by regular self-learning and reflection.
ENQUIRIES : Dr AM van Niekerk, tel.no. (021) 659-5554
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/235 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proven experience in principles of planning,
organizing and implementation. Proven knowledge of public health policies,
guidelines and related prescript to manage resources effectively.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Patient-centred services are delivered through
comprehensive, efficient, cost-effective, and high-quality care that provides a
patient experience aligned with the values of the Western Cape Department of
Health and Wellness. Clinical governance is strengthened through a sustained
culture of continuous quality improvement and ongoing departmental research
to remain current with clinical developments. Teaching and learning are
promoted through creating a supportive learning environment for students,
junior staff, and peers at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels, while
continually updating one’s own knowledge and skills. Outreach and support
activities focus on strengthening and improving service delivery across the
Rural Central Ecosystem. Corporate governance is upheld through effective
and efficient financial and physical resource management, together with full
adherence to all people management requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Dr E Manefeldt, tel. no. (023) 348-1100
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
197
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/236 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALITY PSYCHIATRY) 72-
HOUR ASSESSMENT AND OBSERVATION UNIT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Servies
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683, R880 plus R254)
that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212). Or a 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. - A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General
Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific speciality (Psychiatry) after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or a post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Driver’s Licence. Will
be required to work shifts (day and night), public holidays, after-hours and
weekends. Relief the Assistant Manager: Nursing as needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation within the
public sector, exposure to ward operational management, ability to promote
quality patient care through the setting, implementation, and monitoring of
standards. Ability to function independently as well as part of a multi-
disciplinary team. Basic computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook) and effective communication, interpersonal, leadership, decision
making, and conflict resolution and labour relations skills. Good organisational
skills and the ability to function under pressure.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Coordinate and supervise the provision of optimal,
holistic specialised nursing care provided within set standards and a
professional/legal framework. Manage effectively the utilisation and
supervision of resources. Coordination of the provision of effective training and
research. Provision of Effective Support to Nursing Services. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Linden-Mars, tel. no. (021) 918-1224
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/237 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALITY: LABOUR WARD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus 254) that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
qualification nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited
with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science (R212)
OR a 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification
(R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the SANC
198
as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the
SANC in Midwifery. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse and Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to overtime,
after hours hospital cover, weekends, and Public Holidays as required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good managerial, supervisory, and
decision-making skills. Computer literate (Word, Outlook, Excel, and Power
point). Knowledge and insight of legislation and policies, relevant to current
nursing practice within the Public Service. Disciplinary and conflict
management skills. Good leadership and organizational skills and the ability to
function under pressure. Ability to function independently as well as part of a
multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Holistic, comprehensive specialised nursing care
provided within a professional / legal framework. Effectively utilized and
supervised resources. Support effective practice development, education, and
research activities/resources. Effectively delivered support service and
management of human, material and financial resources to the Nursing
Division. Maintain professional growth /ethical standards constructive working
relationships with nursing personnel and other stakeholders (multi-disciplinary
teamwork). Function as a health care professional according to the applicable
norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. E Brock, tel. no. (021) 360-4370
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/238 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: (SPECIALTY: THEATRE AND
CSSD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Operating Theatre Nursing (212) OR A 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing
(R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC
in Peri-operative Nursing. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse. Experience: A
minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At
least 5 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate
diploma in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Work night
duty on a planned schedule to relief the night manager. Willingness to overtime,
after hours hospital cover, weekends and Public Holidays as required. Valid
Code B/EB driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good leadership
and people management skills maintain constructive relationships with
members of the multi-disciplinary team. Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate a good understanding of People
Management (Human Resources) and financial policies and practices.
Effective interpersonal, leadership, organisational, decision-making and
conflict resolution skills. Applicants must have the ability to work under
pressure, be self-motivated, possess excellent interpersonal skills, the ability
to work as part of a team and independently.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Co-ordinate, Implement and monitor the strategic
objectives of nursing in the Operating Theatre and CSSD, the facility and
Department of Health. Holistic, comprehensive specialised nursing care
199
provided within a professional / legal framework. Effectively manage and co-
ordinate the provision of clinical nursing care for the area. Support effective
practice development, education and research activities. Effectively delivered
support service to the Nursing Division. Ensure that clinical nursing practice is
rendered by the Nursing team and promote quality of nursing care as directed
by the professional scope of practice and standards. Manage and effectively
supervise human, material and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Sr T Khumalo, tel. no. (021) 850-4752
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/239 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212) or A 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A postgraduate diploma
(R635) accredited with SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
rotational shifts, including day and night duty, as well as weekends and public
holidays, in accordance with operational requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function independently in a multi-disciplinary team
and the ability to direct the team to ensure quality nursing care. Ability to
manage own work and that of the units reporting to the post with good auditing
skills. Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of nursing and public service
legislation and human resource and financial policies. Computer literacy
(Microsoft Office).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Supervise and ensure the provision of effective and
efficient patient care through the identification of nursing care needs, the
planning & implementation of nursing care and the guidance of nursing & other
personnel Bed Management. Manage human resources efficiently and
effectively. Manage material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Maintain & promote professional growth/ethical standards and development of
self & others.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede, tel. no. (044) 802-4352
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/240 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRIC NEURODEVELOPMENT)
(5/8TH POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R650 877 per annum
Grade 2: R742 659 per annum
Grade 3: R859 527 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
200
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Previous
experience in general paediatrics. Previous experience in neurodevelopmental
paediatrics. Ability to function independently at a level of general practitioner.
Diploma in Child Health (or equivalent).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): To render a comprehensive clinical service in the
Neurodevelopmental Outpatient service and other sub-specialist Outpatient
services, covering day-time work. To provide outpatient care, including
administration, management, as well as teaching and research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr A Thomas, tel. no. (021) 938-9427
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The post
necessitates flexibility in allocation of the 5/8th working hours to meet the
service needs. “Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/241 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: (GENERAL) POST-NATAL AND
KMC (INCLUDING GYNAECOLOGY) WARDS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R571 161 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work shifts (day and
night duty), public holidays, after-hours, and weekends. Relief the Assistant
Manager: Nursing when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic
computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Knowledge and
insight of all relevant legislation and policies within the public sector and ability
to promote quality patient care through the setting, implementation, and
monitoring of standards. Ability to function independently as well as part of a
multi-disciplinary team in a pressured environment. Appropriate experience in
a health care environment and good organisational, communication (verbal
and written), interpersonal, leadership, problem- solving and decision-making,
conflict resolution and labour relations skills.
201
DUTIES ; (key result areas/outputs): Coordinate and supervise the provision of optimal,
holistic nursing care within set standards and within a professional and legal
framework in the post natal and KMC wards. (including gynaecology patients.)
Effective and efficient management of Human, financial and physical
resources. Initiate, co-ordinate, implement and participate in training,
development and research within the Post-Natal and KMC wards and the
Nursing Component. Deliver a support service to the Nursing Service and the
institution. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Linden-Mars, tel.no. (021) 918 1224
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/242 : QUALITY ASSURANCE COORDINATOR
Overberg District
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Swellendam / Cape Agulhas Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Appropriate 4-year Health related
Diploma/degree or equivalent in Health Sciences registerable with a South
African Statutory Health Professions Council or South African Nursing Council.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Quality Assurance (QA). Appropriate
experience in Infection Prevention Control (IPC), Occupation Health and Safety
(OH&S). Appropriate experience in Management. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel extensively
within the Rural Districts. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to analyse
and interpret Health Systems Information, compile reports and present the data
to direct planning. Knowledge of Project and Financial Management. Good
organisational, interpersonal, creative problem solving and research skills.
Computer literacy (Ms Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Ability to
communicate eloquently and effectively (both verbal and written).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Support the Health Establishment staff with the
implementation of the Ideal Clinic. Realisation and Maintenance (ICRM) and
Ideal Hospital Realisation and Maintenance. Ensure the maintenance of the
Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) standards. Establish measures that will
ensure health and safety of staff and users. Support the addressing of
healthcare risks. Ensure that the HE have updated QI related policies,
guidelines and SOP and these are followed by staff. To help build the
competency of staff. Monitor data quality in the Health Establishment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Le Grange, tel. no. (082) 776-5723
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/243 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. Post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
one year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency. or A 4 year Bachelor Degree in
Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus
R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited in
Emergency Nursing or Critical Care Nursing (Adult). Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
202
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to
work shifts, Sundays, public holidays, night shift and overtime to meet the
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate an
in-depth understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices and how this impact on service delivery. Effective
interpersonal, leadership, organisational, decision making and conflict
resolution skills. Good communication skills. Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide holistic specialized nursing care to patients
in a cost-effective manner. Effective implementation of infection control policies
and health and safety legislation. Effective manage and utilize human and
material resources. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing
and other stakeholders. Participate in training, development and research
within the nursing department. Provision of Support to Nursing Services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Mahlangu, tel. no. (044) 604-6104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into the
general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualifications
within a predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates
will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application
for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in the post basic qualification or post-
graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/244 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
(C5 Ward 30 Beds) (1 Post)
Trauma Unit (Resusitation) (1 Post)
Medical Emergencies (Ante-Room) 20 Trollies 10 (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical
Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174)
or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited in Emergency Nursing or
Critical Care Nursing (Adult). Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate
diploma in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness
to work shifts including weekends, public holidays and night duty. Willingness
203
to rotate within Trauma & Emergency. Ability to lift and turn patients, stand for
long hours and lift heavy equipment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound
knowledge and understanding of nursing and health service-related acts,
legislation, policies and practices. Problem solving, report writing, liaison and
facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and use of
Internet.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide an optimal, holistic, specialised Nursing
Care within set standards and within a professional, legal framework as a
professional Nurse in Trauma and Emergency. Maintain a constructive working
relationship with nursing and other stakeholders. Utilise human, material and
physical resources efficiently and effectively. Participate in research and
training and development of community, staff and students to achieve optimal
health care and rehabilitation of trauma and emergency patients. Deliver an
effective outreach service. Assist with administrative duties, e.g. data collation
and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Miller, tel. no. (021) 404-4116
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates may be subjected to a compulsory competency test. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification or post-graduate qualification in the relevant specialty.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/245 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: NEONATOLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing
Science. or 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Midwifery. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day & night duty, weekends
and public holidays to meet the operational requirements. Willingness to rotate.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Display core values of the Department of
Health and Wellness (WCG) on the execution of duties while practicing within
the legislation, regulations and protocols applicable to the public service.
Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation and policy related to nursing
within the Department of Health Western Cape. Plan, Organize, & Coordinate
the service by analysing, problem solving, and decision making. Leadership
towards the realization of strategic goals and objective of the speciality clinical
department.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure quality patient care regarding the
identification of nursing care needs, the planning and implementation of
nursing care plans and the education of the nursing personnel as a
Professional Nurse in the specific speciality clinical area. Render and supervise
specialised clinical nursing care and support clinical staff with procedures
204
within the specific clinical speciality unit. Utilize human, material and physical
resources and development of self and others.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase, tel. no. (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/246 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY
24(ADVANCED PSYCHIATRIC UNIT) (6 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital (2 posts)
Khayelitsha District Hospital (4 posts), Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880 plus
R254) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at
least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing
Science (R212). OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade1: A Minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable nursing
experience after registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General
Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/ recognisable nursing
experience after registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the one-year post-basic
qualification (R212) or a post graduate diploma (R635) in the relevant specialty.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, public holidays,
after-hours, night duty and weekend cover for nursing. Willingness to assist
across the various components of the facility based on operational
requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good verbal and written
communication skills. Provide optimal, holistic specialized psychiatric nursing
care within set standards and professional/legal framework. Effective utilization
of human, financial and physical resources(equipment and consumables).
Participation in appropriate personal /professional development activities: Self,
students, other categories of staff. Ensure efficient and accurate
documentation, statistical data collection capturing and participation in
research activities. Assist with the development and the implementation of
nursing quality improvement plans, policies and standard operating
procedures.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide optimal, holistic specialized psychiatric
nursing care within set standards and professional/legal framework. Effective
utilization of human, financial and physical resources (equipment and
consumables). Participation in appropriate personal /professional development
activities: Self, students, other categories of staff. Maintain accurate completed
patient, staff and other appropriate documentation. Assist with the development
and the implementation of nursing quality improvement plans, policies and
standard operating procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs MM Luphondo, tel. no. (021) 902-8010/57 (Eerste River Hospital) and Mrs
D Anthony, tel. no. (021) 360-4408 (Khayelitsha District Hospital)
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
205
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/247 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY) (2 POSTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R 495 423 per annum,
Grade 2: R 607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Grabouw CHC, Theewaterskloof Sub-district (1 post)
Swellendam Hospital, Swellendam Sub-distirct (1 post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: General (R212) or Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency (R212) or 4 year
Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus
R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited in Emergency Nursing or Critical Care Nursing (Adult).
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1)
driver’s licence. Expected to assist in the facility when there is a need.
Expected to work Overtime (Public Holidays, After Hours and Night Duty).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, planning and
organisational skills, and computer literacy (MS Office). Knowledge and insight
of relevant legislation and policy related to this nursing speciality within the
public sector. Ability to promote quality patient care through the setting,
implementation and monitoring of standards. Effective communication,
interpretation, leadership, decision-making and conflict resolution and
organisational skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): -Provide optimal, holistic specialized nursing care
with set standards and within a professional/legal framework. Assist in
managing the utilization and supervision of all resources effectively. Assist in
effective management and utilisation of human and financial resources to
ensure optimal operational functions. To assist in the planning and co-
ordination of training and research effectively. Assist to organise a cost-
effective service daily and provide support to supervisor and management.
ENQUIRIES : Post A: Ms. V Maqhina, tel. no. (021) 859-1301 and Post B: Ms. F. Vermeulen,
tel. no. (028) 514-8419
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
206
POST 18/248 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse . A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency (R212). OR A 4-year bachelor’s
degree in nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse and Midwife. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited
with the SANC in Critical care Nursing (Adult) or Emergency Nursing.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
day and night duty, weekends, overtime and public holidays to meet the
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape.
Skills to plan, organise & coordinate the service by analysing, problem solving
& decision making. Leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and
objectives of the Trauma & Emergency Department.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure quality patient care regarding the
identification of nursing care needs, the planning & implementation of nursing
care plans and the education of nursing personnel as a Professional Nurse in
the Trauma & Emergency department. Render and supervise specialized
clinical nursing care and support clinical staff with surgical & medical
procedures. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Maintain & promote professional growth/ethical standards and
development of self & others. Display of core values of the Department of
Health WCG in the execution of duties, while practising within the legislation,
regulations and protocols applicable to the public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede, tel. no. (044) 802-4352
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subject to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted with their job
application/on appointment. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/249 : BED MANAGER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3- National Diploma/ Degree
registrable with an appropriate Health Professional Council. Experience:
Appropriate and relevant experience of Bed Management within a hospital
environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office
207
and Outlook etc). Ability to function independently. Proven knowledge of and
exposure of applicable policies, legislation, guidelines, standards, procedures
and applicable practices. Leadership, organisational, decision making and
problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Develop, manage and implement Bed Manager
Policies, Protocols and Procedures within the hospital. Management of
patient's information and statistics in relation to bed management. Plan,
coordinate and manage patient referrals to other health facilities Reduction in
Length of stay of patients in a hospital bed in conjunction with the relevant
medical teams. Coordinate the activities of medical, nursing, allied workers and
administrative disciplines regarding the planning, processing and utilisation of
hospital resources to ensure effective and efficient flow of patients within the
institution in participation with other provincial institutions and districts. Manage
and coordinate discharge plan for ambulatory patients; ensure discharge
medication, OPD bookings and transport, ensuring reduced congestion within
Emergency units which include the monitoring of disposition times.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. A Martin, tel. no. (021) 360-4427
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/250 : AUDIOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Audiologist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as an Audiologist or Speech
Therapist and Audiologist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA in the relevant profession in Audiology or Speech Therapy and
Audiology (where applicable in respect of RSA qualified employees). 1-year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Audiology or Speech
Therapy and Audiology in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years' relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Audiology or Speech Therapy and Audiology in respect of SA
qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years' relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Audiology or Speech Therapy and Audiology in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years' relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Audiology or
Speech Therapy and Audiology in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 21 years' relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Audiology or Speech Therapy and Audiology in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service, as
required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent
communication skills. Good report writing, interpersonal, organising,
leadership and planning skills, as well as computer literacy. Good and sound
knowledge of appropriate national and provincial legislation and policies. Ability
to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Render diagnostic and rehabilitative audiological
services to children and adults in accordance with patient needs and
professional standards. Manage resources optimally and effectively.
Participate in the multi-disciplinary team environment both within and outside
hospital. Participate and present In-service training and Continuing Education.
Perform administrative tasks related to the audiology service within the
hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Birkenstock, tel. no. (021) 938-4825/4/17
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
208
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Audiologist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/251 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(STORES, INVENTORY AND WAREHOUSE MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience and in-depth knowledge of
Warehouse/Stores management. Appropriate experience in a large warehouse
environment in a hospital and/or medical environment. Appropriate supervisory
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong
organizational and communication skills (written and verbal). Good knowledge
of inventory management procedures and electronic materials management
systems. Ability to manage multiple priorities and work independently.
Knowledge of Syspro or any other warehouse enterprise software. Knowledge
and ability to apply the Disciplinary code. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Render an effective, efficient and economic service
in all aspects of Inventory and Warehouse Management. Liaise with End Users
with regards to any queries which may arise. Manage Inventory and
Consumable stock levels and assist in Bi-Annual Stock take process. Perform
all Warehouse Management functions to ensure the availability of inventory or
consumable stock. Assist and supervise Disposal Management functions with
regards to inventory and expired/redundant Inventory and consumables. Liaise
with End users, suppliers/service providers and other departments regarding
Supply Chain matters. Provide supervisory guidance and assistance to
Administrative Officers. Manage the performance and development of own
staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Stephen Adonis, tel. no. (021) 938-4016
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/252 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE (REVENUE)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: -An appropriate 3-year Diploma/Degree.
Experience: Appropriate experience in financial administration within a public
sector or health environment. Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Strong leadership, planning and organisational skills.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Outlook). Extensive knowledge of PFMA,
National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury Directives, UPFS,
Financial Delegations and Instructions. Knowledge of BAS, HIS billing
systems, Delta 9 and MediKredit/Batsumbi. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to work independently and in a team. Ability to chair meetings and apply
policies. Knowledge of revenue management, billing, reconciliation and
financial controls. Knowledge of medical records/Archives Act requirements.
Problem-solving, analytical and report-writing skills. Strong interpersonal and
conflict-management skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Control and manage all revenue transactions,
ensuring compliance with PFMA, treasury prescripts, UPFS and internal
financial policies. Maintain accurate financial and patient records, including
BAS–HIS reconciliations, IYM reports and audit-ready revenue files. Manage
billing and revenue collection for EMS standby and special events, ensuring
accurate invoicing, tracking and follow-up of outstanding payments. Monitor
and analyse revenue performance, including RAP statistics, income trends and
209
debt follow-ups, and report deviations to management. Supervise and
coordinate Revenue Administration staff, including performance management,
training, leave planning and disciplinary processes. Provide support to the
Assistant Director: Financial Management, including preparing monthly
revenue reports, attending meetings and liaising with stakeholders (medical
aids, SANDF, state departments). Ensure effective office administration and
customer service, addressing revenue-related enquiries and ensuring timely
submission of all revenue documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Wylie, tel. no. (021) 508-4517
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/253 : SENIOR FORENSIC OFFICER
Chief Directorate: Emergency And Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Forensic Pathology Laboratory, FPS
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Forensic (Medico-legal) experience as a Forensic
Pathology Officer. Appropriate experience in supporting the manager with
Corporate Governance functions. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code
B/EB driver’s license. Must be competent in forensic investigation and
evisceration. Knowledge of Fleet, Assets and Stores Management. Knowledge
of Finance and Supply Chain in the FPL setting and ability to support revenue
and expenditure management processes. Analytical Skills to monitor utilisation
of consumables and project needs for demand management and procurement
planning. Will be required to assist in the planning/training of Major incident
exercises as well as involvement in Major incidents. Will be required to work
office duties, standby duties and overtime duties. Ability to be trained in 4 x
vehicle handling and photography skills. Ability to lift and work with corpses
(mutilated, decomposed, infectious viruses, etc). Will be required to wear a
uniform. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge, application and
implementation of regulations policies and standards pertaining to the Forensic
Pathology process, forensic investigation and evisceration as well as sound
knowledge and understanding of legislation pertaining to Forensic Pathology,
the ethical issues in Forensic Pathology, scope of practice and Forensic
Pathology standards. Ability to supervise and plan. Competent in numerical
assessment, planning, forecasting, and checking (budget, procurement,
stores, claims, etc). Ability to work under pressure, meet deadlines and solve
complex problems in a multi-disciplinary team. Ability to communicate clearly
and discreetly in person and writing. Computer Literacy in Microsoft Package
(Microsoft Word, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Excel, FPS Business System,
Live link). Ability to achieve and maintain good interpersonal and working
relations with staff and clients, with knowledge of the core values of the
Department.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Efficient support to the Manager regarding
operational management of the Forensic Pathology Laboratory. Efficient
support to the Manager regarding Corporate Governance aspects. Effective
Management of the Forensic Pathology Assistant Program. Effective
Operational Service Delivery at the Facility.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Jonker, email: brent.jonker@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The candidate
will be subjected to an interview and competency test. Candidates will be
subjected to security clearance prior to appointment. Shortlisted candidates
may be subjected to a psychometric evaluation.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/254 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: INPATIENTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 (PNA2) per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 (PNA3) per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 (PNA4) per annum
210
CENTRE : Caledon Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. OR A
3 year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) AS A General Nurse. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse or General Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at SANC as a
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public holidays and
weekends. Relieve and rotate in all areas of the hospital (excluding maternity).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
Powerpoint and Outlook). Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of nursing and
public service legislation and policies. Knowledge and understanding of legal
ethical nursing practices and framework within an acute hospital setting.
Effective leadership, and supervisory skills to organise and coordinate services
by analysing, problem solving and decision-making for effective nursing care
within a health team. Direct and coordinate all healthcare activities of the multi-
disciplinary team. Knowledgeable about pain management strategies.
Effective communication skills to facilitate intersectoral collaboration with
health teams and the community.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide direction and supervision for the
implementation of the nursing care plans, laws and regulations relevant to
nursing and health care. Implement standards, practices, criteria, and
indicators for quality assurance. Utilize human, material, and physical
resources efficiently and effectively. Maintain constructive and supporting
working relationships with nursing and other stakeholders. Effective
Information management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Roman, tel. no. (028) 214-3702
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/255 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE) (2 POSTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 (PNA2) per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 (PNA3) per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 (PNA4) per annum
CENTRE : Railton Clinic, Swellendam Sub-district (1 post)
Bredasdorp CDC, Cape Agulhas Sub-district (1 post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. or A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at
SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
211
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1) driver’s licence. Willingness to work overtime when
necessary. Willing to assist in all other PHC facilities in the Sub-district, when
operational need arises, e.g. Community Day Centres, Clinics, Satellite Clinics
and on Mobile Clinics. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic computer skills
in MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Ability to function/make decisions independently
and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication, interpersonal
relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills. Knowledge
of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide direction and supervision for the
implementation of quality comprehensive nursing care within the Primary
Health Care context. Implement standards, practices, criteria, and indicators
for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health care in
accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health care.
Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Participate in training programmes and research activities. Maintain
workplace disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. GJ van der Westhuizen, tel. no. (028) 514-8402
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/256 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: PHC) (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 (PNA2) per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 (PNA3) per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 (PNA4) per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha CHC, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A Minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A Minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to work after hours. Assist in all areas within the Facility
and also at other Facilities within the Sub-structure when there is a need.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function and make decisions
independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication,
interpersonal, leadership and conflict resolution skills. Knowledge of grievance
procedure and disciplinary legislation. Knowledge and understanding of
nursing Code of Ethics and Professional Practice of the SANC of nursing
Standard of Practice and scope of practice. Computer literate in MS Office
(Excel, Word and Power point) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide direction and supervision for the
implementation of quality comprehensive nursing care within the Primary
Health Care context. Practice nursing and health care in accordance with the
laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health care. Maintain a
constructive working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders. Utilize
human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Participate
in training programmes and research activities. Maintain workplace disciplinary
of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr DB Grootboom, tel. no. (021) 360-5247
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
212
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a
change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/257 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (2 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Avian Park Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse or 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: Prepared to work at different facilities within the Sub District inclusive a
Mobile when needed within the community (COPC concept). Valid (code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Prepared to drive to the facility with your own transport.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation
and policy related to nursing within the public sector and basic computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook) to be able to communicate, capture
patient information, check results, capture data and do track referrals on the
different electronic systems. Ability to promote quality patient care through the
implementation of protocols, guidelines, and standards.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provision of Primary Health Care in accordance with
the guidelines and protocols of the Western Cape. Maintain accurate clinical
records, statistics registers, and referral records. Effective utilization of
Resources/Stock within the limited budget constraints. Participation in
Community events and initiating awareness with regards to health-related
issues. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary
teamwork but able to work independently. Supervise and mentor lower
categories of staff and improving quality of health services. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development
ENQUIRIES : Ms C van Staden, tel. no. (023) 348-1350
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
may form part of the selection process. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates
will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application
for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/258 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: WARD 97)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 (PNA2) per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 (PNA3) per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 (PNA4) per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
213
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade1: None Grade2: A
minimum of 10 years recognisable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work overtime and rotate within the hospital when required.
Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, public holiday to meet
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): -Knowledge and
understanding of nursing care processes, procedures, statuses, and other
relevant legal and ethical practices. Computer literacy (MS Office and Outlook).
Good communication skills. Report writing. Appropriate experience working
with Mental Health Care users in a Psychiatric Ward.
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set
standards and within a professional/legal and ecosystem framework. Effective
utilisation of resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development. Provision of Support to Nursing Services. Participation in
training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Satani, tel no. (021) 370-1231
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/259 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 GENERAL (NURSE RELIEF
TEAM) (CONTRACT UNTIL 31 JANUARY 2027) (3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 (PNA2) per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 (PNA3) per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 (PNA4) per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade1: None Grade2: A
minimum of 10 years recognisable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work overtime and rotate within the hospital when required.
Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, public holiday to meet
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and
understanding of nursing care processes, procedures, statuses, and other
relevant legal and ethical practices. Computer literacy (MS Office and Outlook).
Good communication skills. Report writing. Appropriate experience working
with Mental Health Care users in a Psychiatric Ward.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set
standards and within a professional/legal and ecosystem framework. Effective
utilisation of resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development. Provision of Support to Nursing Services. Participation in
training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Satani, tel. no. (021) 370-1231
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
214
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/260 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (MECHANICAL)
SALARY : Grade 1: R253 341 per annum
Grade 2: R297 249 per annum
Grade 3: R345 342 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in
appropriate field. Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade B: At
least 18 years appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining
the relevant Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Ability to perform standby and overtime duties. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in the mechanical, general
mechanical repairs and the ability to carry out basic general welding.
Appropriate knowledge of Machinery, pumps, compressors, steam systems
and sterilizing equipment. Ability to work independently and under pressure,
with good organisational as well as team skills. Good communication skills
(verbal and written). Ability to plan ahead (pro-active), as well as working in a
team and to learn and comply with in-house systems and procedures.
Conversant with the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health
and Safety Acts, NBR and SABA 1475. Ability to operate and use required tools
and equipment skilfully and safely.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Maintain and repair all plant and equipment at the
Hospital under the supervision of the Artisan Foreman. Perform necessary
administrative functions, train and supervise subordinates. Assist with the
execution of engineering projects and control over tools and materials. Assist
Artisan Foreman with his duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Sishuba, tel. no. (021) 938- 6100
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/261 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Garden Route District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : George Sentrum CC, George Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience of Health Information Systems (PHCIS,
Sinjani,Tier.Net/ETR and Ideal clinic capturing). Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to assist at the other clinics in the Sub District according to the
needs of the service. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in
Microsoft Package (MS Windows, Word and Excel, Outlook). Appropriate
knowledge of record keeping procedures, Registry and Archive policy.
Appropriate knowledge and experience in Departmental systems, (PHCIS,
Sinjani, Tier .net/ETR and Ideal clinic capturing). The ability to accept
accountability and responsibility and to work independently and unsupervised.
Good communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Perform an effective administrative role as a
member of the Health Management Team. Record keeping, filing and retrieving
of folders, tracing of old folders and compiling of new folders, destruction of
folders. Maintenance of effective Registry Plus functions. Register of patients
on the Patient Administration System (PHCIS). Effective data management and
215
administer quality monitoring. Effective data capturing, interpret and analyses
data trends. Present data for monthly Facility meeting. Effective support to the
Supervisor and other Stakeholders in line with the Departmental Leadership
Behavior Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Marthinus, tel. no. (044) 814-1100
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/262 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (WARDS: INPATIENT) (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in health-related environment. Appropriate
experience in Clinicom. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
shifts (day and night duty), weekends and public holidays and perform overtime
when and as required. The incumbent must be willing and able to rotate within
the various components of the facility based on operational needs.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good verbal, written and interpersonal
communication skills in at least two of the three official languages of the
Western Cape. Practical experience in computer skills (MS Word and Excel).
Maintain and exercise confidentiality of patient’s information at all times. Good
interpersonal relations, organisational skills, and customer care. Knowledge of
the information systems i.e., Clinicom.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effective and efficient patient administration through
liaison with clients, record keeping, documentation, filing, and telephone
enquiries. Effective and efficient patient administration including checking that
all follow-up bookings for all outpatients on Clinicom system has been booked.
Attendances and disposals are dealt with daily. Capturing of ICD10 codes.
Ensure that all fees and administrative related documents are signed, ensuring
availability of folders and necessary documents for admission. Management of
material resources, assets. Management of admin duties in outpatient
department. Manage patient processes and activities smoothly and efficiently
in OPD. Support to supervisor and colleagues with administration tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Louw tel. no. (021) 360-4516 Alesia.Louw@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/263 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN (EXPENDITURE)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’S) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a creditors environment. Appropriate experience in capturing information on
Logis and BAS systems. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
overtime on short notice. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
(MS Office). Knowledge of BAS and LOGIS systems. Systematic thinking and
attention to detail. Good communication and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Clearing suspense accounts and capturing journals
and payments on BAS. Processing LOGIS payments. Calculating and
checking subsistence and travel claims. Debt management. Statement
reconciliation and document control. Ensuring effective and efficient financial
control of transactions. Supporting supervisor and other departments. Assisting
with IFS/AFS reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr X Hans, tel. no. (044) 804-4347
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
216
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/264 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Garden Route District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Thembalethu CDC, George Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience of Health Information Systems (PHCIS,
Sinjani,Tier.Net/ETR and Ideal clinic capturing). Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to rotate between clinics when needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in Microsoft Package (MS Windows,
Word and Excel, Outlook. Appropriate knowledge of record keeping
procedures, Registry and Archive policy. Appropriate knowledge and
experience in Departmental systems, (PHCIS, Sinjani, Tier .net/ETR and Ideal
clinic capturing). Ability to accept accountability and responsibility and to work
independently and unsupervised. Good communication skills (verbal and
written).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Perform an effective administrative role as a
member of the Health Management Team. Record keeping, filing and retrieving
of folders, tracing of old folders and compiling of new folders, destruction of
folders. Maintenance of effective Registry Plus functions. Completion of
registration and updating of Patient information. Effective data management
and administer quality monitoring. Effective data capturing, interpret and
analyses data trends. Present data for monthly Facility meeting. Effective
support to the Supervisor and other Stakeholders in line with the Departmental
Leadership Behavior Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Marthinus, tel. no. (044) 814-1100
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment/written test.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/265 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Directorate: People Development Centre
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : People Development, Plumstead
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in procurement of goods and services;
asset management & vehicle fleet administration. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good verbal and
written skills. Good organizational skills. Computer skills (MS Office Excel,
PowerPoint and Word).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Administrative support to Admin Officer. Assisting
with asset management activities.Assist with procurement activities. Assist with
vehicle fleet management activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Crowe, tel. no. (021) 763-5320
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/266 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT/ DRIVER
Health Technology, Projects (HT warehouse on the premises of Lentegeur
Hospital)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Chief Directorate: Facilities and Infrastructure, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics/ Mathematics Literacy and/or Accountancy as a passed subject
and/or Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with experience/competencies that
focus on the Key Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience:
Appropriate experience in driving a Code 10 truck, Asset Management, and
217
Procurement. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code C1/ Code 10,
unendorsed driver’s licence and PDP. Valid PDP. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer skills. Basic calculation skills. Driving a
truck/motor vehicle with equipment and/ or officials. Ability to perform physical
duties in respect of asset movement. Knowledge of Procurement and Asset
Management systems and SC regulations applicable. Excellent knowledge of
all Traffic regulations applicable to a Code C1/ Code 10 driver’s license and
PDP. Excellent truck driving skills. Good People, Verbal and written
communication skills. A sound understanding of GMT and Transport officer
policies.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Acquire quotations via IPS (Integrated Procurement
System). Procure assets on the LOGIS system. Receive and capture receipts
of assets on the computer system, including serial numbers. Mark and storage
of assets according to prescribed norms, Move and place assets in allocated
areas. Verify that all assets have been allocated correctly and are indicated on
the asset register of the hospital/health facility. Assist with the installation and
commissioning process, selection of assets, physical uploading and unloading
of trucks. Drive truck and other GG vehicles and ensure safe transportation of
assets between the HT warehouse and the defined HT project / Health facility.
Apply cost containment during trips and always ensure the safety of the vehicle
and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Swanepoel, tel. No. (021) 834-5128
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
POST 18/267 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (SCHOOL HEALTH)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Cloetesville CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Current
registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Prepared to work in
School health service’, at different facilities within the Sub District inclusive a
Mobile and when needed within the community (COPC concept). Valid (code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of ISHS,
Integrated School Health service. Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation
and policy related to nursing within the public sector. Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel and Outlook) to be able to communicate, capture patient
information, check results and capture data. Ability to promote quality patient
care through the implementation of protocols, guidelines, and standards.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Development and implementation of basic patient
care. Provide basic clinical care in a resource constrained PHC setting.
Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Engelbrecht, tel.no. (021) 808-6108
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). “
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
218
POST 18/268 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Eyethu Clinic, Mossel Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse.Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Staff Nurse with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
work overtime and perform outreaches. Willingness to assist at other clinics
and mobiles in the Sub-district when needed. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license and willingness to travel within the Sub District. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Self- discipline and motivation.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Development and implementation of basic patient
care plans. Provide basic clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical
and financial resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self- development. Take actions to improve quality of nursing care. Participate
in infection prevention and control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Lamprecht tel. no. (044) 604-6106
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/269 : CHIEF PORTER
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Standard 7).Experience: Appropriate experience in porter
services in a hospital environment. Supervisory experience. Basic experience
of Staff Performance Management System. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts (weekends and public holidays). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent written and verbal communication skills. Ability to
work independently and in a team context. Thorough knowledge of the “Dead
on Arrival” protocol, the removal of corpses protocol and handling of folders
protocol. Knowledge of the grievance procedure, code of good practice:
dismissal and disciplinary code and procedure for the public service.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Control the utilisation of personnel to ensure patient
is transported to treatment centre timeously. Facilitate effective communication
and the respectful handover of remains to relevant stakeholders, ensuring all
are handled with dignity and respect. Ensure that disciplinary procedures are
effectively enforced. Ensure that personnel collect/clean wheelchairs, trolleys
and collect blood hampers. Effectively execute all administrative functions
applicable on a supervisory level and provide an effective support to the
Administrative Officer.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Meyer, tel. no. (021) 938-4923
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
219
POST 18/270 : STERILISATION OPERATOR PRODUCTION (CSSD)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std7). Experience: Appropriate sterilizing & disinfection
(CSSD) experience in a hospital environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts including weekends, public holidays, night duty,
overtime as needed. Willingness to perform relief duties according to
operational needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and skills
regarding disinfection, decontamination, and sterilisation. Knowledge of CSSD
procedures and the use of equipment (Gas/ autoclave etc). Ability to work in a
team cooperatively – good interpersonal skills. Ability to communicate
effectively (verbal and written).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effective application of the sterilisation process and
techniques, promote/adhere to infection control practices, as well as health and
safety regulations. Decontaminate, pack, and sterilise instruments and linen
supplies. Assist with maintaining, cleaning, and testing of sterilisation
equipment, washing machines, autoclaves to ensure all equipment in an
optimum working condition. Using all resources/consumables cost-effectively.
Monitor, control and maintain adequate stock levels, report and assist with
investigations of broken equipment / lost items. Lifting and pushing heavy
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede, tel. no. (044) 802-4352
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/271 : HOUSEHOLD AID
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy skills.
Experience: Appropriate experience in cleaning, linen, stock and food related
services in a hospital/health environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Ability to lift/move heavy equipment and supplies. Incumbent must be prepared
to work shifts, weekends and public holidays. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of basic food preparation. Ability to work in a
team and independently Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety
Appropriate knowledge with the use of cleaning equipment, cleaning materials
and cleaning detergents. Knowledge of Infection Control.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Deliver an effective cleaning service such as
dusting, sweeping, polishing, scrubbing and mopping of floors, clean furniture
and other equipment and empty dustbins. Effective use of cleaning agents,
equipment and provide a hygienic environment to prevent the spread of
infection and ensure that the cleaning equipment is cleaned after usage and
securely stored. Safekeeping and stock control of linen, stock, consumables
and equipment. Serve meals to patients and when required prepare basic
snacks. Responsible for general hygiene and safe environment in terms of
standards and procedures. Optimal support to supervisor and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Rongwana, tel.no. (021) 440-3339
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/272 : GENERAL WORKER (STORES ASSISTANT) (SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
220
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a warehouse environment. Appropriate experience
in receiving and distribution of stock. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
Driver’s license (Code B/EB. Physical ability to lift heavy boxes. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good written and verbal communication skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Load and offload stock on the vans. Transport goods
to and from different sections. Pack stock in boxes according to standards.
Receipt of stock from bulk store Prepare stock for courier distribution. Prepare
stock for collection by demanders. Maintain hygiene in the area.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Abrahams, tel. no. (023) 414 - 8214
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
applicants will be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00
POST 18/273 : HOUSEHOLD AID
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to work overtime, shifts including nightshift, weekends and
on public holidays. Willingness to handle buff machine etc. Ability to handle
heavy objects. Must be of sober habits. Willingness to work in a team and rotate
around the hospital. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Infection
Control and Occupational Health and Safety Good interpersonal skills with the
rest of the multi-disciplinary team as well as the public. Good communication
and interpersonal skills. Ability to work in a team environment and
independently.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Responsible for cleaning duties i.e. sweeping,
dusting, emptying bins daily, mopping, scrubbing and polishing, cleaning
windows, deep cleaning of toilets, general refuse and medical waste handling
and maintenance of general neatness and hygiene (adhere to OSH and IPC
policies). Perform patients and parents’ meal serving and cleaning of crockery
and cutlery (according to HACCP principles and food service unit policies).
Effective use of machinery, maintenance and safekeeping of consumables and
equipment. Attend in-service training and render support to the supervisor with
regards to general housekeeping duties. Handling of linen (soiled lined, dirty
lined, clean linen, counting of linen, packing linen room, etc.) Assist in
performing ad-hoc duties within the hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Gonya, tel. no. (021) 360-4412
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of the
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/274 : PORTER (3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
experience in a health-related environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work overtime, shifts including nightshift, weekends and on
public holidays. Must be prepared to handle corpses. Must be of sober habits.
The incumbent must be willing and able to rotate within the various
components of the facility based on operational needs. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to
work under pressure. Willingness to work in a team. Ability to perform tasks
such as lifting patients from/onto beds trolleys and wheelchairs.
DUTIES : (key results area/outputs): Assist and accompany patients and transport
patients per wheelchair/trolleys/bed from one point to another and from wards
to various areas. Assist with shifting of medical equipment. Responsible for
221
collecting and cleaning of wheelchairs and trolleys and blood hampers. Assist
with the removal of bodies from wards and perform relevant duties. Assist with
ambulatory and walking patients. Render support to the supervisor.
Administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. A Gonya, tel. no. (021) 360 4412
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/275 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRIC
GASTROENTEROLOGY) (6 SESSIONS PER WEEK)
(3 Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R 671 per hour
Grade 2: R 766 per hour
Grade 3: R 887 per hour
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Paediatrics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in Paediatrics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Inherent requirement of the
job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Experience in general paediatrics and paediatric gastroenterology. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Ability to function independently at a
level of medical specialist in paediatrics. Demonstrated interest in Paediatric
Gastroenterology, including research. Working with multi-disciplinary teams.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): To render a clinical outpatient service in Paediatric
Gastroenterology. To provide outpatient care, including clinical teaching.
Administration and management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T. Mokoto, tel. no. (021) 938-9570
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Medical Specialist in Paediatrics with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00PM
POST 18/276 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (INTERNAL MEDICINE) (5
SESSIONS) (CONTRACT UNTIL 31 MARCH 2029)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R 671 per hour
Grade 2: R 766 per hour
Grade 3: R 887 per hour
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Internal
Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
222
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Internal Medicine. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate and relevant experience in
Internal Medicine as a Medical Specialist. Strong ethical principles and relevant
clinical and counselling skills. Computer literacy. Appropriate recent experience
in echocardiograms (Perform 25 in a 5-hour period) and amend patient’s
treatment plan after the Echo. Financial management by effective and efficient
use of resources. Leadership-, interpersonal- and organisational skills. Ability
to work as a specialist physician at a large Regional Hospital attached to a
teaching institution. Ability to work and make clinical decisions independently.
Ability to manage a broad spectrum of medical cases competently. Proven
leadership abilities and experience in supervision of staff and resources and
proven experience in principles of planning, organizing and implementation.
Ability to provide leadership and management within the Department of
Medicine. Excellent individual coping and interpersonal skills and ability to
perform well within a multidisciplinary team context. Enthusiasm to attend and
present training and educational courses to broaden clinical and managerial
skills and knowledge. Ability to communicate effectively. Knowledge and
understanding of relevant legislation, hospital procedures and policies.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide specialist clinical services and
comprehensive medical care to in-patients and out-patients. Financial
management by effective and efficient use of resources. Adhere to
requirements for all people management matters. Create a learning
environment for junior staff and students, both under and postgraduate.
Provide outreach and support services at district level. Coordination of relevant
clinical governance and administrative requirements. Complete and submit
required medical reports and documentation for legal and administrative
purposes. Complete the required CPD activities to maintain registration with
the HPCSA.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Y Vallie, tel. no. (021) 402-6317
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/277 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (INTERNAL MEDICINE) (4
SESSIONS) (CONTRACT UNTIL 30 APRIL 2029)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R671 per hour
Grade 2: R766 per hour
Grade 3: R887 per hour
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Internal
Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
223
Internal Medicine. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Driver’s licence.
Willingness to work weekend shifts. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong
ethical principles and relevant clinical and counselling skills. Computer literacy
Leadership-, interpersonal- and organisational skills Ability to work as a
specialist physician at a Large Regional Hospital attached to a teaching
institution. Ability to work and make clinical decisions independently. Ability to
manage a broad spectrum of medical cases competently. Proven leadership
abilities and experience in supervision of staff and resources and proven
experience in principles of planning, organizing and implementation. Ability to
provide leadership and management within the Department of Medicine.
Excellent individual coping and interpersonal skills and ability to perform well
within a multidisciplinary team context. Enthusiasm to attend and present
training and educational courses to broaden clinical and managerial skills and
knowledge. Ability to communicate effectively. Knowledge and understanding
of relevant legislation, hospital procedures and policies. Experience in the
management of critically ill patients in intensive care. Relevant experience in
Internal Medicine as a treating Specialist.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide specialist clinical services and
comprehensive medical care to in-patients and out-patients. Financial
management by effective and efficient use of resources. Adhere to
requirements for all people management matters. Create a learning
environment for junior staff and students, both under and postgraduate.
Provide outreach and support services at district level. Coordination of relevant
clinical governance and administrative requirements. Complete and submit
required medical reports and documentation for legal and administrative
purposes. Complete the required CPD activities to maintain registration with
the HPCSA.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Y Vallie, tel.no. (021) 402-6317
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 18/278 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (20 SESSIONS) (CONTRACT UNTIL 31
JULY 2029) (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R501 per hour
Grade 2: R572 per hour
Grade 3 R662 per hour
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPSCA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees.
1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as a
Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant
experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as a
Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
224
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid Driver’s License (Code B/EB) and willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal
and written). Must have experience working at a District level hospital after
community service delivering comprehensive and evidence- based general
medical, surgical and emergency clinical services. Ability to work in integrated
multi-disciplinary teams across platforms. Computer literacy in MS Office
mandatory.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Quality clinical, non-clinical and medico-legal
patient care as required by the various programmes of the Department of
Health. Supervise-, support -, transfer of knowledge to-, training- and
mentoring of the clinical staff and auxiliary staff. Provide an efficient
administration service regarding all clinical and non-clinical matters and
medico-legal work. Participate in clinical governance activities providing
guidance and leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and
objectives of the division. Ensure a cost-efficient service at clinical level with
regards to laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Lockett, tel.no. (021) 816-8554
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with their relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026, 17:00 PM
225