PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 22 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 26 JUNE 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weeskly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge and
experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS
EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the department
where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be approached for such
information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable closing
dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential candidates
from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where applicable,
interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative action
measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied. Advertisements
for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the filling of the vacancy
and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive
preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment in
the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course please
visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE: Kindly note that posts of Financial
Misconduct Committee Member, Ref. No.: Q9/2026/36, and Financial Misconduct Committee
Chairperson, Ref. No: Q9/2026/37, advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 20 dated 12
June 2026 with a closing date of 29 June 2026, Please note that the closing date has been
extended to 03 July 2026. Apologies for any inconvenience caused.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 03 - 05
COMMUNICATION AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES B 06 - 10
CORRECTIONAL SERVICE C 11 - 14
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR D 15 - 23
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT E 24 - 25
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION SYSTEM F 26 - 28
HIGHER EDUCATION G 29 - 47
HOME AFFAIRS H 48 - 53
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE I 54 - 59
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT J 60 - 81
SOUTH AFRICAN POLICE SERVICE K 82 - 159
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT L 160 - 161
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT M 162 - 163
PRESIDENCY N 164 - 166
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
EASTERN CAPE O 167 - 213
GAUTENG P 214 - 221
KWAZULU NATAL Q 222 - 237
LIMPOPO R 238 - 260
MPUMALANGA S 261 - 267
NORTHERN CAPE T 268 - 269
NORTHWEST U 270 - 286
WESTERN CAPE V 287 - 310
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications due to
technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must provide
certified copies of required documents (Identity Document, qualifications, etc)
where necessary and service certificates to support senior management
experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign qualifications. Failure
to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed at Senior Management
Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-entry programme offered by
the National School of Government (NSG). Find course details here:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/
appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela Programme: Pre-
entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical
exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment.
Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an additional criterion in
the interview process. NB: Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications
submitted by applicants will be reported to the South African Police Services
(SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your
application before the closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do
not submit duplicate applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate
applications for each post. Due to high vol umes, the Department will not
acknowledge receipt of applications. Communication will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider
your application to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment
process, a moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is
affected by any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation
of posts, the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and
re-advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative action.
We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The Department reserves
the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to the collection and
processing of your personal information for recruitment purposes. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to be available for assessments and interviews at a
date and time as determined by the Department. Shortlisted candidates will
undergo personnel suitability checks, security vetting and reference checks
(including social media profiles). Applications must declare any pending criminal,
disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must
pass security clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to declare
any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships of Boards
and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to disclose relevant
information may result in disqualification or termination.
ERRATUM: The Department of Agriculture wishes to inform the public about the
withdrawal of advertisement of three (03) positions published in the Public Service
Vacancy Circular number 11 dated 27 March 2026. The positions withdrawn are:
Chief Director: Natural Resources and Disaster Management (reference:
3/3/1/78/2025); Chief Director: International Relations and Trade (reference:
3/3/1/69/2026); and Director: International Trade Promotions (reference
(reference: 3/3/1/70/2025). The Department likes to apologise for any
inconvenience this withdrawal might cause.
OTHER POST
POST 22/01 : SENIOR AGRICULTURAL SCIENTIST (SENIOR LECTURER) (REF NO:
3/3/1/44/2026)
Directorate: Grootfontein Agricultural Development Institute
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (Middelburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a Bachelor’s
Degree in Agriculture (Animal Production). A Post-graduate Certificate in
Education. 3 years supervisory experience. Job related knowledge: Knowledge
and understanding of all relevant legislation and regulations that govern the Public
Service. Knowledge of Government policies and priorities in terms of Agriculture
Land Reform and Rural Development. Knowledge and understanding of the white
paper on the transformation of the Public Service (Batho Pele). A strong knowledge
of the subject area combined with a broad subject background enabling
3
contributions to teaching programmes. Job related skills: Computer skills. Good
knowledge of the subject field. Supervisory and management skills. Formal training
and presentation skills / facilitation skills. Willingness to work extended hours. The
ability to work proactively and under pressure. The ability to work efficiently and
effectively at all times. A valid driver’s licence. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Oversee the development and implementation of the academic curriculum for the
subject field according to the relevant quality standards which would, inter alia,
include the following: Determine the training needs of clients and industrial role
players (Liaise with relevant agricultural role players). Identify gaps in the
curriculum, review and develop appropriate interventions, e.g. course material /
study guides. Compile a curriculum. Ensure alignment of course material with
requirements set for academic institutions and practical requirements. Participate
in peer reviewing of study material and presentations. Prepare syllabus guides,
lesson plans and presentation of practical, theoretical and/or short courses in
accordance with the set timetable. Ensure that assessment and moderation of
assessments takes place in accordance with the required standards (e.g. Higher
Education Quality Committee standards). Develop and implement a capacity
building plan. Conduct classes which would, inter alia, include the following:
Conduct classes which would, inter alia, include the following. Prepare practical
and theoretical lecturing material and study aids. Present lectures and tutorials.
Maintain discipline during classes. Compile question papers and memorandums
for assessments. Grade answer sheets, papers and assignments. Statistical
analysis of results. Invigilate during exams and tests as required. Support students
through an advisory and consultative role. Moderation of exams as required.
Present short courses / vocational training to Higher Education and Training (HET),
Further Education and Training (FET) students and other stakeholders. Liaise with
industry at various platforms on different aspects of vocational training. Prepare
practical material and study aids. Present practical classes and assessment.
Provide oversight, guidance, mentoring and assistance to students and other
stakeholders in the planning (strategic, operational, fodder flow and financial) and
management (day-to-day livestock operations, data collection and marketing) of
production units (mini-farms). Provide oversight to students / stakeholders in the
collection, processing and interpretation of data of the production unit. Ensure the
provision of sufficient quantity and quality of practical training material and
equipment (fleeces, livestock, equipment, etc.). Oversee and conduct applied
information research on production units: Do desktop research on subject matter.
Identify relevant new information and technology for incorporation in course
material. Present findings of research at relevant platforms. Provide verbal and
written advice and assistance to farmers in subject field. Perform and oversee
administrative and extracurricular functions which would, inter alia, entail the
following: Give input towards policy. Involved with planning regarding academic,
facilities, financial and other related issues. Compilation of timetables. Perform and
oversee administration in terms of classes e.g. attendance registers, student
records, exam results etc. Serve on various committees (e.g. subject academic
committees etc.). Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports. Human
resource responsibility including Supervise subordinates. Development of
subordinates. Maintain discipline. Plan and prioritise work of subordinates.
Performance management. Monitor expenditure and utilisation of assets. Comply
with the Public Service prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Themba Cebani Tel: (049) 802 6605
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SASrecruit44@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Persons with disability.
POST 22/02 : SENIOR DRIVER OPERATOR: (REF NO: 3/3/1/45/2026)
Directorate: Infrastructure Support
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 4)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Modimolle)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a NQF level 3 qualification (Grade 10
certificate). Five (5) years ’driving, operating and drilling experience. Job Related
Knowledge. Safety: Standards prescribed in terms of statute. Tools: The correct
use of tolls and equipment. Keep inventory and maintain equipment. Job Related
Skills. Good communication skills. Judgement skills. Excellent hearing and vision.
DUTIES : Render production services i.t.o. drilling and construction services. Produce
boreholes and construct agricultural infrastructure according to specification and
recognized standards. Preparation of access roads at construction and drilling
sites. Construct, erect and repair existing and new disease control fence. Drilling,
testing and repair of existing boreholes. Operating specialized drilling and
earthmoving equipment. Transport, load and offload material, goods and
equipment. Transportation of officials. Application of safety and precautionary
measures. Ensure maintenance of drilling and construction equipment. Ensure
compliance with OHS act. Service construction and drilling equipment according
4
to schedule. Quality assures serviced and maintained equipment. Cleaning and
lubrication of machinery and equipment. Inspect and maintain equipment and
report defects. Perform administrative and related functions. Keep and maintain
job record/register. Keep log sheets of vehicles, drilling and earthmoving-
equipment and machines.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Koos du Plessis Tel: (049) 846 8535 / (063) 357 8644
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SDOrecruit45@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African Females and Persons with disability.
POST 22/03 : TRADESMAN AID: (REF NO: 3/3/1/46/2026) (X6 POSTS)
Directorate: Infrastructure Support
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Modimolle)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession an NQF Level 3 (Grade 10 Certificates). No
experience required. Job Related Knowledge: No knowledge required. Job Related
Skills: Communication skills. Good Interpersonal skills. Organizational skills. Ability
to use electrical and hand tools. Ability to work independently. Required to work
away from station for prolonged periods (Camp environment).
DUTIES : Manual labour support during the construction of agricultural infrastructure and
projects. Preparation of access roads and construction sites. Handling of tools and
other construction material and equipment (Including welding). Handling and
planting of posts, placing and straining of fence cladding. Perform physical labour
and maintenance related tasks including construction of concrete and other
structures. Spray herbicides to inhibit the growth of vegetation in and around the
office/ camp. Cutting of grass and vegetation with mower to ensure neatness and
optimal workspace. Provide reporting and logistical support function. Cleaning of
storage facility including premises and gardens. Assist in organizing the yard
optimally. Maintenance, safekeeping and repair of premises, buildings, stores,
tools and equipment. Compliance with OHS act. Safekeeping, cleaning and
maintenance of hand tools and camping facilities (accommodation, ablution and
kitchen facilities), stores, vehicles and machines. Rehabilitation of terrain after
construction completed. Assist with repairs and emergency breakdowns (including
after hour’s repairs). Loading and offloading of construction materials. Assist with
the on and off loading of material, machinery and vehicles. Assist with the correct
weight distribution and spacing of cargo to ensure axle weight allowance not
exceeded and safe working conditions. Securing of cargo correctly. Assist with
correct storage of offloaded equipment and materials. Providing assistance with
stocktaking and record keeping of materials loaded and offloaded in and out of the
storage facility. Reporting of movement of hand tools and other equipment in
storage (ensure proper paperwork for movement).
ENQUIRIES : Mr Koos du Plessis Tel: (049) 846 8535 / (063) 357 8644
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
TArecruit46@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: Africans, Coloureds and Persons with disability.
5
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES
The Department is an equal opportunity organisation and intends to promote equity through the filling of
these posts. Candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote the achievement of
employment equity within the Department will receive preference, in particular the persons with disabilities
and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the link
quoted in the specific advertisement below. This link requires applicants to use a
Google account. Applications must be submitted with two (2) attachments: 1. A
Z83 Form (2021 version), obtainable from the DPSA website (Z83 editable) and 2.
A recently updated comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. If either or all of these two
attachments are not submitted, the applicant’s application will be disqualified. Each
post advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialed and signed by the applicant.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026
NOTE : Applications received after the closing date will not be considered. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications obtained and
other related documents on or before the day of the interview, following
communication from Human Resources and will be subjected to verification by the
South African Qualifications Authority. Candidates in possession of a foreign
qualification must also provide an evaluation certificate issued by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at own expense. Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered further. Due to the
anticipated large volume of responses, correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability
based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other will be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. After the pre-entry assessments, an oral
interview will be conducted. Suitable candidates will be subjected to personnel
suitability checks (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). By responding to the advertisement,
applicants consent to the collection, processing and storing of their Personal
Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA)
Act No. 4 of 2013. Candidates will therefore be required to give consent in terms
of the POPI Act in order for the Department to conduct the verifications. Information
will be used for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the
purpose of the position/vacancy you have applied for and will not be shared with
third parties without prior consent, unless required by law. All applicants must
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest and must disclose membership
on Boards and directorships associated with. If you have not been contacted within
six (6) months of the closing date, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The submitted CVs will be destroyed as legislated in the National
Archives Act. In the event that your application is unsuccessful, the Department
will retain your personal information only for audit purposes as required by policies.
All the information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide the requested information will result in your application
not being considered further. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment to the advertised post(s). The successful candidate must disclose
particulars of all registrable financial interests and sign an employment contract
within one month from the date of assumption of duty. A Performance Agreement
must be concluded and signed within three months from the date of assumption of
duty. Notes for applicants of SMS posts: Successful completion of the Nyukela
Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on https://thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to the finalisation of the appointment, is a
requirement for all SMS positions. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise
and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric
assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 22/04 : DIRECTOR: DIGITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND MANAGEMENT (REF: DIRDDFM)
NATURE OF APPOINTMENT: PERMANENT
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (the all-inclusive remuneration package consists
of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension Fund, a
medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
6
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 / Degree in Finance / Economics / Business
Management / Fund Management / Engineering or a relevant equivalent
qualification as recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority. A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience in Finance / Economics / Business
Management / Fund Administration / Engineering or equivalent in the related field
environment at middle / senior managerial level. Skills / Competencies And
Knowledge: Strategic capability and leadership, government administrative
processes, people management and empowerment, programme and project
management, financial management, change management, innovation and
problem-solving, critical thinking, fund management, financial planning and
analysis, policy analysis and implementation, stakeholder engagement,
relationship management and monitoring and evaluation.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to manage and provide oversight services for
programmes to enhance universal access to support the achievement of the
department’s strategic objectives. The successful candidate will manage and
monitor the design and implementation of the digital development fund policies,
programmes and models to enable the delivery of the Universal Services and
Access Agency. Manage and facilitate funding projects that improve the necessary
infrastructure for digital technologies for broadband networks, connectivity, data
centres, smart city technologies, and technical startups. Support digital skills
development programmes and support SMMEs of ICTs to improve productivity,
sustainability, and competitiveness. Facilitate and support the establishment of
funding models and schemes to enable access to universal services. Manage
capital provision for startups and existing companies to develop digital
technologies and infrastructure. Identify and select projects or companies that align
with the fund’s objectives. Establish and maintain strategic partnerships with
technological companies, educational institutions, government agencies, and
international organisations. Contributing to key result areas such as strategic
functional leadership, managing human resources, managing financial resources,
driving change and operational excellence, and managing and ensuring
compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sekele +2712 427 8599, Ms N Khosa +2712 427 8260, Mr M Cilo +2712 427
8514
APPLICATION : Link: CLICK HERE
POST 22/05 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION (REF:
DIRHRPA)
Nature Of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7/ Degree in Human Resource Management/ Industrial
Psychology/ Labour Relations/ Business Management/ Public Administration or a
relevant equivalent qualification as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority. An Honours degree will be an added advantage. A minimum of five (5)
years’ experience in a Human Capital Management environment at the
middle/senior management level. Skills / Competencies And Knowledge: Strategic
Capabilities and Leadership, Government Administrative Processes, People
Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project Management, Financial
Management, Change Management, Problem solving and analysis, Customer
focus, Stakeholder Engagement and Relationship Management. Employee
Lifecycle Operations, Talent Management, HR Governance and Compliance,
Business Partnering, HCM Business Systems Administration, HCM Policies and
Procedures, Workforce Planning and HR Administration.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to manage and drive the provision of HR planning and
administration services. The successful candidate will manage and drive the
design, maintenance, and implementation of HR planning, administration, and
employment equity policies, plans, systems, guidelines, procedures, processes
and governance thereof. Manage initiatives and processes to enhance employee
experience by driving and monitoring the delivery of effective and efficient human
resource planning and administration services that directly impact the workforce,
from talent attraction to off-boarding, making their experience a priority. Manage
and monitor the administration of employee information management systems and
provide insights and trends to enable data-driven HR reporting and decision-
making. Manage and drive processes to define long-term and mid-term HR and
EE plans aligned with the business planning cycle and that support execution of
the broader business strategy and direction. Manage and monitor the
implementation of total rewards and on-time and employee attendance policies,
processes, systems, and provide reporting for decision-making and continuous
improvement. Manage, maintain and coordinate the review and design of HR
delegations of authority and personnel records. Recommend and drive
opportunities to enhance improvement and performance. Manage and drive HR
7
planning, administration and employment equity initiatives to support the business
priorities that drive innovation and enhance business processes. Contributing to
key result areas such as strategic functional leadership, managing human
resources, managing financial resources, driving change and operational
excellence, and managing and ensuring compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sekele +2712 427 8599, Ms N Khosa +2712 427 8260, Mr M Cilo +2712 427
8514
APPLICATION : Link : CLICK HERE
POST 22/06 : DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS, ORGANISATIONAL DESIGN AND
EMPLOYEE WELLNESS (REF: DIRERODEW)
Nature Of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7/ Degree in Operations Management/ Organisational
Development/ Labour Relations/ Industrial Psychology/ Human Resource
Management or a relevant equivalent qualification as recognised by the South
African Qualifications Authority. An Honours Degree will be an added advantage.
A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in Employee Relations, Organisational
Design and Employee Wellness at middle/senior management level with at least 3
years in Employee/Labour Relations environment. Skills / Competencies And
Knowledge: Strategic Capabilities and Leadership, Government Administrative
Processes, People Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Problem solving and
analysis, Customer focus, Stakeholder Engagement and Relationship
Management. Organisational Design, Organisational Effectiveness, HR
Governance and Compliance, Business Consulting, HCM Policies and
Procedures, Wellness Management, Labour Relations, Organisational Culture
Transformation and Change Management.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to manage, drive, and facilitate the implementation of
employee relations, organisational design and employee health and wellness
services and programmes. The successful candidate will manage and drive the
development, maintenance and the implementation of employee relations,
organisational design and employee health and wellness policies, plans, systems,
guidelines, procedures and processes and governance thereof. Manage,
coordinate and conduct organisational functionality assessments and drive the
review and alignment of the service delivery model and strategy. Manage, review,
design and maintain organisational structure and positions to ensure validity, cost
effectiveness and consistency and responsiveness to business needs. Manage,
facilitate and drive the provision of sound employee relations services, and serve
as the chief negotiator on behalf of the Department. Provide sound advice on all
ER-related matters/processes, including rights and obligations, and facilitate
capacity building programs to empower employees on ER matters and supervisors
on discipline management. Manage and ensure the availability of updated and
reliable department job architecture, including job families and
profiles/descriptions, identifying critical competencies/skills and approved job
grades confirmed through job evaluation. Design and drive the implementation of
a change management and culture transformation framework, plans, and initiatives
aligned with the organisation’s values, including the voice of employees and the
employee value proposition. Manage and promote the design and implementation
of productivity and wellness management services programmes, including
counselling, life management, referral, advocacy, awareness and education
interventions. Advise management, recommend, and drive opportunities to
enhance performance and create fit-for-purpose OD and EHW functions. Advise,
manage and drive organisational design, employee relations, and health wellness
initiatives to support the business priorities that drive innovation and enhance
organisational performance. Contributing to key result areas such as strategic
functional leadership, managing human resources, managing financial resources,
driving change and operational excellence and managing compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sekele +2712 427 8599, Ms N Khosa +2712 427 8260, Mr M Cilo +2712 427
8514
APPLICATION : Link: CLICK HERE
POST 22/06 : DIRECTOR: SOE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (REF: DIRSOEIM)
Nature Of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (the all-inclusive remuneration package consists
of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension Fund, a
medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
8
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Accounting / Financial Management /
Economics / Finance / Development Finance / Development Studies or relevant
equivalent qualification as recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority.
A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in Business Investment environment at
middle / senior managerial level. Skills / Competencies And Knowledge: At an
advanced level in - Strategic capability and leadership, Government administrative
processes, People management and empowerment, Programme and project
management, Financial management, Change management, Analytical and
problem-solving skills. Technical Competencies: Risk management, Transaction
structuring and execution, Commercial and company law, Capital allocation,
Financial reporting and analysis, Budgeting and cash flow control, Project finance,
Broad based black economic empowerment.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to manage, facilitate and support the investment
strategies and initiatives and financial sustainability of SOEs. The successful
candidate will manage the Investigation/research of policy, local and international
guidelines appropriate to investment in SOEs and funding thereof and establish an
investment and capital structuring governance framework aligned with government
policy and priorities. Manage the assessment of investment strategies, initiatives,
CAPEX projects, mergers and acquisitions, including applications in terms of
Section 54 of the PFMA, for financial viability, recommend and support
implementation for the sustainability of SOEs. Manage the Investigation/research,
assessment and support for appropriate capital structuring strategies, equity and
debt (including repayments) and requirements for state funding allocation and
guarantees. Support the implementation and monitor progress of capital
structuring strategies and CAPEX projects, mergers and acquisitions, assess
performance and risks (including cost escalations and time delays) and
recommend. Manage the facilitation of the appropriate funding (MTEF,
Guarantees, Adjustment Estimates of National Expenditure) of
Telecommunications & IT Sector SOEs and monitor their financial sustainability.
Manage the analysis of financial reports to monitor financial accountability,
transparency and risks of the SOEs on investments, CAPEX and capital structures
and support compliance with applicable financial reporting standards and
regulations. Manage the processes of facilitating the Minister’s execution of
oversight responsibilities over the BBBEE Council, including analysis of reports
and making recommendations. Contributing to key result areas such as strategic
functional leadership, manage financial resources, driving change and operational
excellence and manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sekele +2712 427 8599, Ms N Khosa +2712 427 8260, Mr M Cilo +2712 427
8514
APPLICATION : Link : CLICK HERE
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/08 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SOE GOVERNANCE (REF: DDSOEG)
Nature Of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (the all-inclusive remuneration package consists
of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension Fund, a
medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Auditing / Law / Accounting / Finance /
Commerce or a relevant equivalent qualification as recognised by the South
African Qualifications Authority. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in
Corporate Governance / Compliance / Law / Auditing / Finance field at Assistant
Director level/middle management, of which three (3) years must be in an oversight
environment relating to corporate governance or audit. Skills / Competencies And
Knowledge: Companies Act 71 of 2008, good corporate governance practices
framework, planning and co-ordination, review of governance documents /
process, review of risks and controls, monitoring / assessment of compliance, basic
research, teamwork, management of human resources, analytical thinking,
attention to detail, problem-solving skills, report writing, verbal communication,
report presentation, sound judgement and ethical.
DUTIES : The purpose of the post is to provide technical analysis, monitor, coordinate and
prepare submissions / reports in relation to the provision of SOE corporate
governance oversight services. The successful candidate will conduct
benchmarking of policies, laws, standards and best practice frameworks
appropriate to governance of SOEs and develop / review the DCDT SOE
governance framework, standard operating procedures, as well as shareholder
compacts, governance agreements and memoranda of incorporation relating to
SOEs. Coordinate and implement processes relating to the appointment and
remuneration of SOE board members and prepare recommendations. Analyse
SOE submissions relating to the appointment and remuneration of top executives
(e.g. CEOs, CFOs) and ensure compliance with related prescripts, policies and
frameworks. Coordinate and implement processes supporting the Minister’s
9
participation in Annual General Meetings of SOEs, including analysis of annual
reports, shareholder resolutions and related submissions and prepare
recommendations. Implement processes for tabling of SOE annual reports in
Parliament. Facilitate processes for conducting board and committee evaluations
and monitor implementation of governance improvement plans. Analyse
governance performance and compliance reports from SOEs relating to
performance targets agreed to in the shareholder compacts and governance
agreement, and prepare a report on the outcomes and recommendations.
Facilitate processes for conducting investigations into all allegations of
irregularities/misconduct (e.g., corruption, fraud, unethical behaviour, etc.) in
SOEs, and monitor the implementation of recommendations and interventions.
Contribute to key results relating to the job environment, such as project
management, operational excellence, compliance and stakeholder relations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sekele +2712 427 8599, Ms N Khosa +2712 427 8260, Mr M Cilo +2712 427
8514
APPLICATION : Link: CLICK HERE
10
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
APPLICATIONS : Send your complete application to: Free State And Northern Cape Region: The
Regional Commissioner Free State and Northern Cape, Recruitment Section,
P/Bag X20530, Bloemfontein, 9300 OR hand deliver at: 103 Zastron Street,
Agrimed Building, Bloemfontein, 9300 OR you can submit your application online
at: https://careers.dcs.gov.za/. Contact persons: Ms Mokuni NJ/ Ms Molutsoane N/
Ms. Ramncwana B/ Ms Radebe T (0823069027). Candidates must comply with the
minimum appointment requirements. CV’s should be aligned to reflect one’s
degree of compliance with the advert requirements and responsibilities. It is the
sole responsibility of an applicant to ensure that their application reaches DCS
before the closing date
CLOSING DATE : 13 July 2026 @ 15:45.
NOTE : All costs associated with an application will be borne by the applicant. The
Department of Correctional Services is an equal opportunity employer. The
Department will take into consideration the objectives of Section 195 (1) (i) of the
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 (Act 108 of 1996) and the
Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) in filling of these vacancies. It is our
intention to promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through
the filling of these positions. In support of this strategy, applicants need to indicate
race, gender and disability status on the application form/CV. Applicants who have
retired from the Public Service with a specific determination that they cannot be re-
appointed or have been declared medically unfit will not be considered. Please
take note that correspondence will only be conducted with the shortlisted
candidates. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing
date of the advertisement, please accept that your application is unsuccessful.
Please do not call the department to enquire about the progress of your application.
Applicants must note that further checks will be conducted once they are shortlisted
and that their appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which
include security clearance, security vetting, qualification verification and criminal
records verification. Appointment will be provisional, pending the issue of a security
clearance. If you cannot get a security clearance, your appointment will be re-
considered/possibly terminated. Fingerprints may be taken on the day of the
interview. The Z83 application form must be completed in full. Only a detailed CV
should be attached to your application form. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies not older than 6 months of qualifications and
other related documents on or before the day of the interview. Please submit a
complete application for the post you apply for and attach your supporting
document on a pdf format, stating the correct reference for the position you are
interested in. Requirement for valid driver’s licence is not applicable to applicants
with a disability. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability
based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other will be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Preference may be given to suitably
qualified applicants who are currently employed at Mangaung Correctional Centre,
based on relevant qualifications, experience and operational
requirements. Experience at Mangaung Correctional Centre will be considered an
added advantage. Successful candidates who are currently employed at
Mangaung Correctional Centre and who have not completed the required
Correctional Services Learnership/Basic Training will be required to undergo the
prescribed Department of Correctional Services training following appointment. All
appointments are subject to personnel suitability checks and will be made in
accordance with applicable legislation, policies and fair recruitment practices. The
Department of Correctional Services reserves the right not to fill any of these
advertised posts.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/09 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A (REF: FSNC 2026/07/01)
SALARY : R499 470 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Mangaung
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate trade test certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training Act
(Red Seal). Ten years post qualification experience required as an Artisan/Artisan
Foreman. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Project
management. Technical design and analysis knowledge. Computer-aided
technical applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Technical consulting. Production, process knowledge and skills. Problem solving
and analysis. Decision making, teamwork, creativity, change management,
financial management, customer focus and responsiveness. Communication,
planning and organising skills.
11
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Manage technical services and support in conjunction with
Technicians/Artisans and associates in field, workshop and technical office
activities. Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Provide inputs into existing technical manuals, standard drawings
and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure quality assurance in line
with specifications. Manage administrative and related functions. Provide inputs
into the budgeting process. Compile and submit reports as required. Provide and
consolidate inputs to the technical operational plan. Update databases.
Management of human resource, finance and assets. Management of
performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B (0823069027).
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 22/10 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A & B
SALARY : R397 329 – R593 934 per annum (Grade and salary notch will be determined in
accordance with the OSD appointment requirements and years of experience)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Mangaung:
` Electrician (Ref: FSNC 2026/07/02)
Plumber (Ref: FSNC 2026/07/03)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training Act
(Red Seal). Five (5) years post qualification experience as an Artisan. Valid driver’s
licence. Competencies And Attributes: Team leadership. Technical analysis
knowledge. Computer-aided applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills. Problem
solving and analysis. Decision making, teamwork and analytical skills. Creativity,
self-management, customer focus and responsiveness. Communication, planning
and organizing skills. Conflict Management.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Training and development of offenders. Management of
administration task. Control over workplaces and tools. Inventory control and
logistical administration as well as efficient management of resources and work
orders and compliance with administration. Design, production, maintenance,
performance administrative and related function. Maintain and advance expertise.
Management of human and financial resources and assets. Management of
performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B (0823069027).
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 22/11 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A, B & C (PLUMBER) (REF: FSNC
2026/07/04) (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R253 341 – R424 371 per annum (Grade and salary notch will be determined in
accordance with the OSD appointment requirements and years of experience)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Mangaung
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training Act
(Red Seal). Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Technical analysis
knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical skills.
Creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Training of offenders as well as apprentices. Execute work as per
requisition/orders received from clients. Apply quality control to plumbing services.
Costing of product and supply quotes. Execute basic workshop administration.
Execute administrative and related functions. Perform plumbing maintenance
services. Manage resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B (0823069027).
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 22/12 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A, B & C (ELECTRICIAN) (REF: FSNC
2026/07/05) (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R253 341 – R424 371 per annum (Grade and salary notch will be determined in
accordance with the OSD appointment requirements and years of experience)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Mangaung
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training Act
(Red Seal). Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Technical analysis
knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical skills.
12
Creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Training of offender as well as apprentices. Quality assessment
of electrical services. Maintenance of building works standard in the management
area. Management of maintenance project. Perform electrical maintenance
services. Manage resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B Tel No: (0823069027)
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 22/13 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A, B & C (LOCKSMITH) (REF: FSNC
2026/07/06)
SALARY : R253 341 – R424 371 per annum (Grade and salary notch will be determined in
accordance with the OSD appointment requirements and years of experience)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Mangaung
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training Act
(Red Seal). Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Technical analysis
knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical skills.
Creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Training of offenders as well as apprentices. Provide locksmith
services (including facilities maintenance and skills development). Facilitate the
effective utilization of appropriate locksmith equipment. Execute administrative and
related functions. Ensure compliance to health and safety as well as security
related functions. Manage resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B Tel No: (0823069027)
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 22/14 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A, B & C (WELDER) (REF: FSNC 2026/07/07)
SALARY : R253 341 – R424 371 per annum (Grade and salary notch will be determined in
accordance with the OSD appointment requirements and years of experience)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Mangaung:
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training Act
(Red Seal). Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Technical analysis
knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical skills.
Creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Training of offenders as well as apprentices. Execute work as per
requisition/orders received from clients. Apply quality control to manufactured
products. Costing of product and supply quotes. Execute basic workshop
administration. Execute administrative and related functions. Perform welding
maintenance services. Manage resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B Tel No: (0823069027)
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 22/15 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A, B & C (AIR CONDITIONING AND
REFRIGERATION) (REF: FSNC 2026/07/08)
SALARY : R253 341 – R424 371 per annum (Grade and salary notch will be determined in
accordance with the OSD appointment requirements and years of experience)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Mangaung
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training Act
(Red Seal). Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Technical analysis
knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical skills.
Creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Train offenders in the applicable trade. Execute work as per
requisition/orders received from clients. Apply quality control to manufactured
products. Costing of product and supply quotes. Execute basic workshop
administration. Perform maintenance services. Manage resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B Tel No: (0823069027).
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
13
POST 22/16 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A, B & C (ELECTRONIC MANAGEMENT)
(REF: FSNC 2026/07/09) (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R253 341 – R424 371 per annum (Grade and salary notch will be determined in
accordance with the OSD appointment requirements and years of experience)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Mangaung:
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training Act
(Red Seal). Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Technical analysis
knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical skills.
Creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Responsibilities Training of offender as well as apprentices. Install, maintain and
repair electronic security systems. Manufacture, assemble, install electronic
components, control boxes and wiring for new projects in the facility. Execute
administrative and related functions. Ensure compliance to health and safety as
well as security related functions. Manage resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B Tel No: (0823069027).
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 22/17 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A, B & C (CARPENTER) (REF: FSNC
2026/07/10)
SALARY : R253 341 – R424 371 per annum (Grade and salary notch will be determined in
accordance with the OSD appointment requirements and years of experience)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Mangaung:
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training Act
(Red Seal). Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Technical
analysis knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical skills.
Creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Training of offenders as well as apprentices. Execute work as per
requisition/orders received from clients. Apply quality control to manufactured
products. Costing of product and supply quotes. Execute basic workshop
administration. Execute administrative and related functions. Perform carpentry
maintenance services. Manage resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B Tel No: (0823069027).
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 22/18 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A, B & C (BRICKLAYER) (REF: FSNC
2026/07/11)
SALARY : R253 341 – R424 371 per annum (Grade and salary notch will be determined in
accordance with the OSD appointment requirements and years of experience)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Mangaung
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training Act
(Red Seal). Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Technical analysis
knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical skills.
Creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Produce building designs according to specifications. Laying
bricks with material and equipment according to job specifications and recognized
standards. Inspect brick laying equipment and facilities for technical faults. Repair
equipment according to standards. Apply brick laying according to schedule. Train
offenders in the applicable trade. Execute work as per requisition/orders received
from clients. Apply quality control to manufactured products. Costing of product
and supply quotes. Execute basic workshop administration.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B Tel No: (0823069027).
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
14
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post
with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and CV
only combined, in PDF and as one attachment. Zipped, IMG and JPEG documents
will not be accepted. indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the
post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated
with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Applications
quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect application for
employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s) advert must be
accompanied by its own application form for employment and must be fully
completed, initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to
fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the
Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the
Z83 it is acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However,
the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day
of the interview following the communication from Human Resources and such
qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in line with the requirements
of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession
of foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by
the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply
with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications
received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents
will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited
to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8)
weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine
a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to the
collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in accordance with
the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your information will be used
soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties
without prior consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right
not to make any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful
candidate will be expected to sign a performance agreement. The Department is
an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of
the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/19 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: UI OPERATIONS REF NO: HR4/4/7/69
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification in Operations Management/ Public Management or
Administration / Business Administration or Management / Administrative
Management/ Management/ Financial Accounting/ Finance at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s license. Four (4) years’ experience of which
two (2) years must be functional experience in Operations environment, and two
(2) years must be supervisory experience. Knowledge: Unemployment Insurance
Act (UIA). Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Treasury
Regulations. Public Service Act (PSA). Public Service Regulation (PSR). Basic
Condition of Employment (BCEA). Public Financial Management Act (PFMA).
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Skills: Computer. Report writing.
15
People Management. Time Management. Communication (both verbal and
written). Customer Relations. Supervisory skills. Couching Skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the employer services function in the province. Coordinate the provision
of assessment, validation and adjudication of claims. Facilitate registry services in
the province. Coordinate Local appeals and complains in the province. Coordinate
General Support. Manage resources in the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Bahololo Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 or
hand deliver at Labour Building, Corner Hofmeyer Avenue and Beatty Street,
Emalahleni, 1035. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-ASD-UI@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Indian Males, Indian Females, White Males, White Females and Persons with
Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 22/20 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/6/01
Re –advertisement: applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Human
Resource Management. Four (4) year’s functional experience on Senior
Practitioner Level in Human Resource Management (Recruitment & Selection,
Conditions of Services, Performance Management and HRD) environment of
which 2 years at a supervisory level. Knowledge. Human Resource Management
Methodology, Principles and Strategies, Digital Acumen / Relevant HRM
system/Learning System/Performance System etc., Del and Compensation Fund
business strategies and goals, COIDA, DPSA Directives, Customer Service
principles (Batho Pele Principles), Technical knowledge, Budgeting and Financial
Management , Labour Relation Act, Employment Equity Act, Basic Condition of
Employment Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury
regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework, Promotion of Access to
Information Act, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA), Minimum
information security standard (MISS), Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA) Skills: Coaching and Mentoring , Conflict Management, Critical and
Innovative Thinking, Inspire Commitment, People Management, Performance and
oversight, Performance/ Project Management, Quality Assurance, Risk
Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Stakeholder Development & Relations,
Data Gathering, Analysis, Data/ Record Management
DUTIES : Co-ordinate recruitment and selection processes for COID Services in the
Province. Manage condition of service processes for COID Services in the
Province. Coordinate and maintain PERSAL establishment for COID Services in
the Province. Manage HR Records for COID Service in the Province. Coordinate
HR audits and reconciliation for COID Services in the Province. Coordinate and
implement workplace skills plan, developmental programs and PMD systems for
COID Services in the Province. Manage all resources in the Provincial HR section
for COID Services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms.JM Fope Tel 015 290 1665
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or CFJobs-LP@labour.gov.za
for Provincial Office: Limpopo.
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloureds, Indian Female and Whites
POST 22/21 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION SECURITY REF NO:HR4/26/06/11HO
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 6 as recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority
in Security Management/ Security Risk Management. Four (4) years’ experience
of which two (2) years at Supervisory level and two (2) years functional experience
in Security Management/ Information Services. Grade A PSIRA certificate.
Knowledge: Departmental Policies and Procedures, Security Management,
Personnel Management, Document Security, Communication Security, IT
Security, Criminal Procedure Act, Disaster Management, Control of Access to
Public Premises and Vehicle Act, OHS Act, Public Finance Management Act, The
Constitution (section 21 and 36) Promotion to Access of Information Act. Skills:
Management, Computer Literacy, Written and verbal communication,
Presentation, Project Management, Conflict Resolution and Negotiation, Diversity
facilitation.
DUTIES : Monitor Personnel Security with the Department. Monitor Communication and IT
security in the Department. Monitor Document Security in the Department. Conduct
Information Security awareness. Manage resources of the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Tshehlo. Tel: (012) 309 4051
16
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X 117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ25@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets-Priority will be given to African Males, Coloureds, Indians and Whites.
POST 22/22 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT & EMPLOYEE
RELATIONS REF NO: HR4/4/7/70
(Three-Year Contract)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management/Public
Management/Employee Relations at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA.
Driver's Licence will be an added advantage. Four (4) years' experience of which
two (2) years must be functional experience in Human Resource Management and
Employee Relations environment, and two (2) years must be at a Senior
Practitioner level. Knowledge: Public Service Transformation and Management
Issues, White Paper on Transformation of the Public Service, Human Resource
Systems and Procedures, Public Service Act and Resolutions, Recruitment and
Selection, Departmental Policies and Procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Minimum
Information Security Standards, PERSAL and other HR Information Management
Systems. Skills: Communication (Verbal and Written), Computer Literacy (Excel,
Word, PowerPoint, PERSAL etc.), Innovative/Creative, Presentation,
Responsiveness, Report Writing, Time Management, Organizing and Planning,
Financial Management, Policy Analysis, Problem Solving and Decision Making.
DUTIES : Coordinate and monitor the implementation of Human Resource Management
policies in the province. Monitor and provide advice on the implementation of
Employee Relations policies and prescripts. Coordinate and manage the
implementation of Employment Equity programmes. Monitor the administration of
service benefits. Manage resources (Human, Finance, Equipment/Assets) in the
Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Bahololo Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 or
hand deliver at Labour Building, Corner Hofmeyer Street and Beatty Avenue,
Emalahleni, 1035. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-ASD-UI-
HRM@labour.gov.za
POST 22/23 : SENIOR SECURITY INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO: HR4/26/06/12HO
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 6 as recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority
in Security Management/ Security Risk Management. Valid Divers License. Two
(2) years functional experience in Security Management/ Information Services.
Grade B PSIRA certificate. Knowledge: Minimum Information Security Standard,
Departmental Policies and Procedures, Security Management, Minimum Security
Standards, OHS Act. Skills: Leadership, Project Management, Decision Making,
Analytical Skills, Problem Solving, Facilitation Skills, Computer Literacy,
Presentation Skills, Innovative, Verbal and Written communication.
DUTIES : Conduct vetting administration. Verify and capture forms on SVIS system.
Administration of safes and keys. Consolidate clearance certificates or reports from
SSA. Administer screening of all service providers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Tshehlo. Tel: (012) 309 4051
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X 117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ17@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets-Priority will be given to African Females, Coloureds, Indians and
Whites.
POST 22/24 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: SUPPORT SERVICES (LR) REF NO
HR4/26/06/14HO
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Business/ Public
Administration/ Public Management. Two (2) years functional experience in
support services. Knowledge: Public service transformation and management
issues, White Paper on transformation of Public Service, Public Service Act, Ability
to convert policy into action, Public Service Regulation and procedures, corporate
governance, Batho Pele principles, International Labour Organisations, Access
recognition and Licencing Committee. South African Development Community,
African Union, Minimum Information Security Standards. Skills: Administration and
financial management, verbal and written communication, Interpersonal relations,
17
Ability to build high-performance teams, Computer literacy, Time management,
Statistical, Economic analysis, Research, Problem Solving, Management.
DUTIES : Coordinate and monitor the Chief Directorate budget and provide financial
administration support, Coordinate and administer human resources activities for
the Chief Directorate. Render records management services for the Chief
Directorate. Render procurement and logistical support services in the Chief
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Xaba Tel: (012) 309 4254
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X 117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ15@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets-Priority will be given to African Males, Coloured Females, Indians Males
and Whites.
POST 22/25 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO
HR4/26/05/02
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Supported Employment Enterprise, Silverton
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in Human Resource Management at NQF Level 6.
Two (2) years’ functional experience in Human Resource management services.
Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, HRM policies, Training and
Development, Public service regulations, Public service Act, Knowledge of SDA,
SDLA And EEA, Management and budgeting, Batho Pele Principles, Relevant
HIV/AIDS related legislation, policies & regulations, National Strategic Plan on HIV,
AIDS and STI Integrated Employee Health and Wellness Framework, Structure
and Functions of the Department, EHWP Policies, Human Resource Development
Strategy, National Skills Development Strategy, Human Resource Development
policies and prescripts Skills: Planning and Organizing, Communication, Computer
literacy, Analytical, Facilitation, Interpersonal, Leadership, Presentation, Report
writing, Time management, Training and Development.
DUTIES : Conduct recruitment and selection process within the Sheltered Employment
Factories. Facilitate the process of benefits administration in the Factories. Render
Employee Wellness support within the Sheltered Employment Factories. Render
Labour Relations administration support. Coordinate training and development
initiatives and performance management system.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ME Msiza Tel: 012 843 7300 / 7409
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X 117, Pretoria, 0001
or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street, Pretoria or email: Jobs-
SEE15@LABOUR.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with Disabilities, African Males, Indian Females,
White Males.
POST 22/26 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: BENEFICIARY SERVICES REF NO: HR
4/4/6/30
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration/Public
Management/Human Resource Development/Management at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Two 2 years’ functional experience in
Operations/Training/Learning and Development environment. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance and Contribution Act, Batho Pele Principles,
Employment Services, Assessment, Operations system (Siyaya Systems: ICRS &
UI online), Human Resource Management System (PERSAL), Logis, Skills
Development Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Public Service Regulations,
Public Service Act, Human Resource Development Strategy. Skills:
Communication, Computer literacy, Training, Interpersonal, Presentation, Project
Management, Report Writing.
DUTIES : Verify the list of training needs that adhere with workplace Skill Plan (WSP).
Providing training of processing staff and Client Service Officers on procedures,
processes and the relevant systems. Verify monthly statistics for sections within
the Operations Division and Labour centres. Coordinate stakeholder
communications (i.e. campaigns, briefing sessions) in the business unit and
Labour centres. Provide administration services to the business unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MI Makgobola Tel 015 290 1723
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or email: UIFJobs-
LP@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloureds and Whites
POST 22/27 : TEAM LEADER REF NO: HR 4/4/6/28
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
18
CENTRE : Labour Centre, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma (NQF 6) Undergraduate Bachelor Degree (NQF 7) in
Labour Relations/ Labour Law/ LLB/BCOM LAW. Two year’s functional experience
in Inspection and enforcement Services. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures, Employment Service Act, Labour Relation
Act, Basic Condition of Employment Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act,
COIDA, SABS Codes, Unemployment Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act,
Employment Equity Act, Immigration Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning, Organizing,
Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Conflict handling, Negotiation, Problem Solving,
Interviewing, Presentation, Innovative, Analytical, Monitoring, Evaluation,
Performance Management, Communication.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with some of labour legislation, namely, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA) Labour Relations Act (LRA). Plan and execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary, including making
preparations for and appearing in Court as a State witness. Plan, allocate and
conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with labour
legislation including compilation and consolidation of reports emanating from such
inspection. Conduct Advocacy Campaign on Labour legislation regularly. Manage
the finalisation of files of cases received and investigations conducted by the
Inspectors. Contribute at a management level to planning, drafting and
maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including execution of
analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on regional and
allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MJ Matlakala Tel 015 290 1699/Ms GJ Matlhakoane Tel 015 290 1665.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700 or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or email: Job-
PLK@labour.gov.za.
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloureds and Whites
POST 22/28 : OHS INSPECTOR: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING REF NO: 4/4/6/02
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a three (3) year recognised qualification in the relevant field,
i.e., Electrical Engineering. Valid driver’s License. Registration with the relevant,
recognised professional body is an advantage but not compulsory. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act, as
amended, Regulations (21), South African National Standards (Codes)-
incorporated Codes become regulations, Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and Organizing,
Communication, Computer Literacy, Facilitation, Interpersonal, Conflict handling,
Negotiation skills, Problem solving, Interviewing, Presentation, Innovation,
Analytical, Verbal and written communication skills
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspection with the aim of ensuring compliance
with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993, Regulations and
incorporated Standard. To confirm registration of with the Unemployment
Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act.
Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and complaints reported
pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and enforce as and when
necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and conduct allocated
proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance with the relevant
labour legislation including compiling and consolidating reports emanating from
such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy campaigns on all labour legislations
independently, analyse impact thereof, consolidate and compile report. Contribute
at a higher level to planning, drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans
and reports including execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated
statistical reports on regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JM Fope Tel: 015 290 1665
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or CFJobs-MOD@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloureds and Whites
POST 22/29 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: PENSION ADMINISTRATOR REF NO:
HR4/4/6/03
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Tzaneen
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in Public Management / Public Administration /
Social Science/ OHS/ Finance/ HRM. 2 year’s functional experience in pension
administration/ claims processing environment of a financial nature. Knowledge:
Compensation Fund objectives and business functions, Compensation Fund Value
Chain and business processes, Relevant Fund policies, procedures and
19
processes, Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles), Risk Awareness, COID
Tariffs. Skills: Required Technical Proficiency, Communication (verbal, written,
listening and questioning skills), Fund Operating System, Data Capturing, Data
and records management, Telephone and Skills and Etiquette, Planning and
organizing, Analytical thinking, Problem solving and decision making.
DUTIES : Render pension administrative duties. Claims adjudication and processing
ENQUIRIES : Ms JM Fope Tel: 015 290 1665
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or email CFJobs-
TZN@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloureds and Whites
POST 22/30 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/7/71
(Three-Year Contract)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management/Public
Management at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Driver's License will be an
added advantage. Two (2) years functional experience in human resource
management environment. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Public Service Regulations (PSR), Public Service Act (PSA), Labour Relations Act
(LRA), Employment Equity Act (EEA), PSCBC and CCMA Procedures, Batho Pele
Principles. Skills: Negotiation, People Management, Problem Solving,
Presentation, Planning and Organizing, Communication, Computer Literacy,
Report Writing.
DUTIES : Monitor the Recruitment and Selection process. Facilitate the processing and
approve service benefits. Provide and monitor termination of service at the
province. Monitor establishment and the implementation of HR policies. Supervise
resources (Human, Finance, Equipment/ Assets) in the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Bahololo Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 or
hand deliver at Labour Building, Corner Hofmeyer Avenue and Beatty Street,
Emalahleni, 1035. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-SPHRM-
UI@labour.gov.za
POST 22/31 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO: HR4/4/7/73 (X1
POST)
(Three-Year Contract)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) in Human Resource
Management/Labour Relations Management as recognized by SAQA. Driver's
License will be an added advantage. Two (2) years must be functional experience
in Employment Relations Management environment. KNOWLEDGE: Public
Service Commission's rules for dealing with complaints and grievances. Public
Service Coordinating Bargaining Council resolutions. Interpretation of case law
and trends in Labour Law. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public Service
Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Labour Relations Act (LRA).
Employment Equity Act (EEA). PSCBC and CCMA procedures. Basic Conditions
of Employment Act (BCEA). Skills: Negotiation. People Management. Problem
Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organising. Communication. Computer
Literacy. Report Writing. Conflict Management. Research.
DUTIES : Conduct and analyse all grievances and complaints received from employees in
the province. Draft charges and finalise all misconduct cases in the province.
Represent the Department in all disputes referred to the General Public Service
Sectoral Bargaining Council (GPSSBC) and the Commission for Conciliation,
Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA). Conduct advocacy sessions on employment-
related matters in the province. Provide administrative support services in the
section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Bahololo Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 or
hand deliver at Labour Building, Corner Hofmeyer Avenue and Beatty Street,
Emalahleni, 1035. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-SPER-
UI@labour.gov.za
POST 22/32 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR4/4/7/74
(Three-Year Contract)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
20
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management/Development /
Training and Development/ Management of Training/ Public Management/ Public
Management/ Industrial and Organisational Psychology at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Driver’s license will be an added advantage. Two (2) years
functional experience in Human Resource Development /Training and
Development/ Performance Management Services. Knowledge: Public Service Act
(PSA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Human Resource Development Policies. Human Resource Systems
(Persal). Skills Development Act (SDA). Skills Development Levies Act (SDLA).
Labour Relation Act (LRA). Basic Condition of Employment Act. Employment
Equity Act (EEA). Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Skills:
Communication (Verbal and Written). Computer literacy. People Management.
Project Management. Presentation. Report writing. Time management. Design and
Development. Organizing and Planning. Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation Human Resource Development initiatives in the
Province. Coordinate the implementation of Performance Management System in
the Province. Implement Internship / Learnership Programmes in the Province.
Coordinate and facilitate Orientation and Induction Programmes. Manage
resources (Human, Finance, Equipment/ Assets) in the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Bahololo Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 or
hand deliver at Labour Building, Corner Hofmeyer Avenue and Beatty Street,
Emalahleni, 1035. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-SPHRD-
UI@labour.gov.za
POST 22/33 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: WORK SEEKER REGISTRATION SERVICES
REF NO: HR 4/4/6/31
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year national qualification in Administration /Public Administration. 1-year
functional experience in work-seeker registration. Knowledge: ILO Conventions,
Financial Management, Human Resource Management. Knowledge Management,
Skills Development, Skills: Planning and Organizing, Communication, Computer,
Analytical, Presentation, Interpersonal, Report writing, Leadership, Networking.
DUTIES : Ensure provision of support to labour centre for the delivery of work-seeker
registration services. Dissemination of information to Labour Centre on registration
of work seekers on ESSA. Ensure provision of administrative support for capacity
building of ESSA end users. Consolidate reports for ESSA user master database.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SM Lebogo Tel 015 290 1662/Ms. TE Maluleke Tel 015 290 1768/Mr. MI
Makgobola Tel 015 290 1723/Ms. JM Fope Tel 015 290 1699/Ms. MJ Matlakala
Tel 015 290 1699/Ms. GJ Matlhakoane Tel 015 290 1665.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or Jobs-LP@labour.gov.za.
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloureds and Whites
POST 22/34 : INSPECTOR REF NO: HR4/4/6/29
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Louis Trichardt
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant tertiary qualification in Labour Relations/BCOM Law/LLB.
One (1) year experience in Inspection and Enforcement Services. A Valid driver’s
license. Knowledge: Department policies and procedures, Skills Development Act,
Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Skills Development
Levies Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, COIDA, Unemployment Insurance
Act, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act, Employment Equity Act. Skills:
Facilitation, Planning and Organizing (Mainly for own), Computer literacy,
Interpersonal, Conflict handling, Negotiation, Problem solving, Interviewing,
listening and observation, Presentation, innovative, Analytical, Communication
(Verbal and Written).
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance
with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Execute investigations
independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of labour legislation
and enforce as and when necessary. Plan and conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections
regularly to monitor compliance with labour legislation. Conduct advocacy
campaigns on all Labour legislation independently. Draft and maintain inspection
plans and reports including analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical
reports on only allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. TE Maluleke Tel 015 290 1768/Mr MI Makgobola Tel 015 290 1723
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or email: Job-
Makh@labour.gov.za.
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloureds and Whites
21
POST 22/35 : INSPECTORS REF NO: HR4/4/6/32 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification in Labour Relations/BCOM Law/LLB. A Valid
driver’s license. Knowledge: Department policies and procedures, Skills
Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act,
Employment Equity Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organizing (own work),
Computing (spread sheets, PowerPoint and word processing), Interpersonal,
Problem solving, Interviewing, Analytical, Communication (Verbal and Written)
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with labour
legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated labour
legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation of
statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GJ Matlhakoane Tel 015 290 1665.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane Or Job-MOD@labour.gov.za for
Modimolle.
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloureds and Whites
POST 22/36 : BCEA INSPECTOR: INSPECTION SERVICES (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Carolina Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/7/66 (X1 Post)
Standerton Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/7/67 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification in Labour Relations/ BCom Law/ LLB. Valid
driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Skills
Development Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act. Skills:
Facilitation skills, Planning and Organizing (Own work), Computing (Spread
sheets, PowerPoint and word processing), Interpersonal skills, Problem Solving
skills, Interviewing skills, Analytical, Verbal and written communication skills,
Employment Equity Act.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with labour
legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated labour
legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation of
statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mokoena Tel: (017) 843 1077/2111 (Carolina)
Mr L Ledwaba Tel: (017) 712 1351/4809 (Standerton)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Carolina Labour Centre, Private Bag
X718, Carolina, 1185 or hand delivery at No. 9 Goud Street, Carolina, 1185. Email:
Jobs-INSP-CRL@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Standerton Labour Centre, Private
Bag X2001, Standerton, 2430 or hand delivery at 14C Vry Street, Standerton,
2430. Email: Jobs-INSP-STN@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Males, Indian Females, White Males and
Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 22/37 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/7/68
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Piet Retief Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / National Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Departmental Policies,
Procedures and Guidelines, Labour Legislation and Regulations, Employment
Services Act, Public Service Act and Regulations, Batho Pele Principles. Skills:
Computer Literacy, Communication, Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Listening,
Telephone Etiquette, Interviewing, Ability to Interpret Legislation.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work-seekers on ESSA. Render registration
administrative services of work and learning opportunities on ESSA. Refer work
seekers for Employment Counselling services. Provide administrative support with
the filling of work and learning opportunities. Render general administrative duties
and participate in advocacy sessions as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mashego Tel No: (017) 826 1883/4
APPLICATIONS : Acting Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Mkhondo Labour Centre,
Amersfoort and Volkrust Satellite, Private Bag X34, Mkhondo, 2380 or hand deliver
22
at Balalas Building, 42 Kotze Street, Mkhondo, 2380. Email: Jobs-PRT-
CSOPES@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, Coloured Males, Indians, White Males and Persons with Disabilities
are encouraged to apply.
POST 22/38 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/6/33
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Louis Trichardt
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. knowledge: Batho Pele Principles,
Departmental policies and procedures, Treasury Regulations. skills: Verbal and
Written communication, Interpersonal relations, Problem solving, Computer
literacy, Analytical, Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : To render Supply Chain Management Function in a Labour Centre Daily. Provide
a Finance and Office Management Service to the Labour Centre Daily. Render a
Human Resource Management. Responsible for Training and Performance
activities in a Labour Centre Daily. Responsible for the Records Management in a
Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MJ Matlakala Tel 015 290 1699
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or Job-MAKH@labour.gov.za
for Makhado.
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Male, Coloureds, Indian Male and Whites
POST 22/39 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/7/72 (X3 POSTS)
(Three-Year Contract)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. No experience required. Knowledge: PERSAL,
HR information management systems, knowledge of registry duties, practices as
well as the ability to capture data and operate computer, working knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service,
knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment, understanding of the work in registry. Skills: Communication,
Computer literacy, Innovative/Creative, Presentation, Report writing, Time
management, Organizing and Planning, Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Implement human resource administration practices (Recruitment and Selection).
Implement conditions of service (Leave, Housing, Medical, Injury on Duty, Long
Service Recognition, Overtime, Relocation, Pension, Allowances, PILIR or etc.).
Facilitate performance management function. Address human resource
administration enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Bahololo Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 or
hand deliver at Labour Building, Corner Hofmeyer Avenue and Beatty Street,
Emalahleni, 1035. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-HRCLERK-
UI@labour.gov.za
23
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF, FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries and
the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-delivered to:
Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr Soutpansberg and Steve
Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to the respective email address
quoting the reference number on the subject email.
CLOSING DATE : 13 July 2026
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Management
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment,
indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject
line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with the post. JPEG
(picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior Certificate, identity
document and driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
Preference may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented
designated groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be limited to successful
candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security
vetting to determine their suitability for employment, including but not limited to:
Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit worthiness; Previous employment
(reference checks); and Qualification verification. Short-listed candidates will be
expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. Entry level
requirements for SMS posts: In terms of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity
Development, Mandatory Training Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS
that was introduced on 1 April 2015, a requirement for SMS posts from 1 April 2020
is a successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment. The
course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and
the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/.
Furthermore, all shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the interview and the
technical exercise, the Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments. The person
appointed to this position will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of
performance agreement and employment contract. The Department reserves the
right not to make an appointment. By submitting the employment application form,
you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which
you provide to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees,
agents, Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013. If you have not been contacted within three
(3) months after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POST
POST 22/40 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR6): MINING APPEALS (REF
NO: RCSM19/2026)
SALARY : R610 434 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 8
years’ experience post qualification in in the relevant field. An extensive
understanding of law, Public Services and Departmental procedures. Applicant
must have a broad knowledge of strategic coordination, policy development, risk
management and audit procedures. Understand the facilitation of project
management, research methodologies and presentation. Have good reporting /
professional writing, policy formulation and negotiation skills. Ability to gather and
analyse information, and adherence to timelines is essential. Ability to work with
24
difficult persons and to resolve conflict. The incumbent must have a valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Manage the coordination and administration of appeals in terms of NEMA and
other applicable legislation with specific on mining related appeals. Receive and
respond to all appeals related queries from stakeholders including the appellants
and applicants using the CD service standards. Convene appeals committee
meeting to discuss the appeals depending on the complexity of the appeal. Attend
the filing of finalized appeals in terms of internal filing policies and guidelines.
Manage the coordination and administration of waste management and
enforcement appeals. Manage the drafting of ministerial submissions and appeal
decisions in respect of environmental authorizations issued by the DMRE. All
grounds of appeal, responding statements and line function comment to be
captured in a logical sequence in appeal decision. Adherence to timeframes as per
the 2014 National Appeal Regulations. Manage the provision of general legal
support. Ensure the drafting of instructions to counsel requesting legal opinions.
Provide support to litigation on appeals matters by attending consultations with
counsel and compile record
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Van Schalkwyk / Ms F Patal Tel: (012) 399 8835 / (012) 399 9330
APPLICATIONS : RCSM19-2026@dffe.gov.za
25
ANNEXURE F
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION SYSTEM
The GCIS is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i)
of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of
the Department will be taken into consideration. People with Disabilities will be accommodated within
reasonable limits. Therefore, preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the
department in achieving its Employment Equity targets in terms of the Department’s Employment Equity
Plan. Suitably qualified People with disabilities will be given preference regardless of Race or Gender.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must submit their applications via the link
http://erecruitment.gcis.gov.za or hand deliver applications to Tshedimosetso
House, 1035 cnr Francis Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Kgopyane
CLOSING DATE : 17 July 2026
NOTE : Applicants with disabilities are encouraged to apply. The old prescribed application
or employment form Z83 was withdrawn with effect from 31 December 2020. As
per the Government Gazette No: 43872, any applicant who submits an application
on or after 1 January 2021 must do so on the new prescribed Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents.
Failure to submit an application on the new prescribed Z83 form will lead to
disqualification. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the fully completed and
signed Z83 form and a detailed curriculum vitae. Communication regarding
submission of certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will
be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview,
following communication from the department. Should you be in possession of a
foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applicants who do not comply with
the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will not
be considered. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates. If you
have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
successful candidate must disclose to the DG particulars of all registrable financial
interests, sign a performance agreement and employment contract with the DG
within three months from the date of assumption of duty and obtain a top-secret
security clearance. All appointments are subject to the verification of educational
qualifications, previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security
vetting. The department reserves the right to fill or not to fill the vacant post. The
successful candidates will enter into an employment contract with the GCIS that
will be reviewed based on performance expiration. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of section 11 (1) of the Protection
of Personal Information Act, 2013 (POPIA), for your personal information which
you provide to the Government Communication and Information System (“GCIS”)
being processed by the GCIS and its employees, agents, cabinet committees, and
sub-contractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/41 : PRODUCTION COORDINATOR REF NO: 3/1/5/1-26/10
Directorate: Media Production
SALARY : R280 278 per annum (Level 6)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF level
6) as recognised by SAQA in Media Studies, Audio Visual Production, Journalism,
Communication, Digital Marketing or equivalent related qualification. General
exposure in the field will be an added advantage. The applicant should
demonstrate client orientation and customer focus, programme and project
management, organising and coordination skills, report writing skills,
communication skills (written and verbal), social and digital media marketing skills,
and financial management skills. The candidate must be computer literate with
strong attention to detail, minute taking abilities, action plan development skills,
interpersonal skills, reliability, teamwork, time management, and the ability to work
under pressure. The incumbent should display honesty and integrity, problem-
solving skills, and be results orientated.
DUTIES : The incumbent will coordinate media productions, live streams, and content
relevant to Government Online TV. Serve as the central entry point for Content
Creation Stakeholders in support of Government Online TV and the Production
Management Office. Liaise continuously with various departments and government
entities to source content for Government Online TV. Identify government events
26
from the national events schedule and follow up on related content for Government
Online TV. Assist with coordination of content uploading and report challenges
experienced. Support production planning, coordination, execution, monitoring,
logistics, and related administration. Coordinate production and Government
Online TV meetings. Demonstrate a basic understanding of professional video
camera operations and editing. Assist with basic content production and editing for
government social media platforms. Compile and submit weekly Production
Management Office and Government Online TV reports. Assist with monitoring
production progress and ensuring deadlines are met. Liaise with internal teams,
client departments, service providers, and other stakeholders. Maintain continuous
communication with clients, suppliers, and stakeholders to ensure smooth project
delivery. Participate in campaign and production briefings where required. Maintain
accurate electronic and manual filing and archiving systems for productions and
campaigns. Archive campaign documents and exit reports on SharePoint and
manual systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Nkadimeng Mosenohi Tel: 012 473 0206
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must submit their applications via the link
http://erecruitment.gcis.gov.za or hand deliver applications to Tshedimosetso
House, 1035 cnr Francis Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria.
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of the
post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic transcript. Note:
This post will be filled by a suitably qualified candidate whose appointment will
assist the department in achieving its Employment Equity targets in terms of the
Department’s Employment Equity Plan. Preference will be given to coloured and
white candidates. Suitably qualified People with disabilities will be given preference
regardless of Race or Gender.
POST 22/42 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: CREDITORS MANAGEMENT REF:
3/1/5/1-26/11
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate Higher Certificate (NQF Level
5) as recognised by SAQA in Public Management/ Administration/ Logistics
Management/ Public Finance/ Accounting/ Purchasing Management or equivalent
qualification majoring in Public Management / Administration/ Logistics
Management / Public Finance/ Accounting or Purchasing Management. General
exposure in the field will be an added advantage. The candidate must have basic
knowledge of BAS, LOGIS and Procurement Integration (PI). Excellent writing and
communication skills, ability to manage and plan. Ability to interpret and apply
legislation and policies (PFMA, Preferential Procurement Regulations, BBBEE,
Treasury regulations, Contracts, etc.). Ability to work independently without close
supervision. Ability to handle multiple tasks simultaneously and able to work under
pressure. The incumbent should be self-driven, creative, innovative, flexible and
highly motivated. Excellent co-ordination skills. Ability to work in a team. Client
service orientated. Have initiative and pay close attention to detail. Report writing.
Knowledge of the Microsoft packages, i.e. MS word, MS Excel as well as Ms
Outlook. Payment capturing and statements interpretation.
DUTIES : Capture payments on LOGIS Integration and BAS. Confirm Banking Details on
CSD before capturing payments. Export entities from CSD to BAS. Verify allocation
for correctness before capturing payments on the payment processing systems.
Verify authenticity of signatures on the documents before capturing payments. Also
ensure compliance of all documents attached before capturing payments on the
system. Ensure correct information is captured on these payment processing
systems. Monitoring and prioritisation of payments to ensure that no payments are
processed after 30 days as well as outside the standards set by the department.
Ensure that invoices with queries are raised immediately with the relevant suppliers
to ensure that invoices are still paid within the required standards. Run
departmental 0-9 file. Send departmental 0-9 file inputs to sections for IFS/AFS.
Provide accurate information in relation to Annual and Interim Financial Statements
(Commitments, Accruals and Payables) Ensure that accounts of creditors of the
department are not outstanding for more than 30 days. Assist in linking invoices on
ITS (Invoice tracking system) Provide accurate information in relation to Annual
and Interim Financial Statements (Commitments, Accruals and Payables)
timeously. Respond to enquiries and queries timeously and keeping record of
enquires/queries handled including the turnaround time. Compile accurate work
statistics. when required assist with the compilation of the 30 Days report of
payments. Assist with the BBBEE statistical data reports. Assist with the
preauthorisation of payments where required. Provide general office support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mendy Hlungwane Tel: 012 473 0180
27
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must submit their applications via the link
http://erecruitment.gcis.gov.za or hand deliver applications to Tshedimosetso
House, 1035 cnr Francis Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria.
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of the
post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic transcript. Note:
This post will be filled by a suitably qualified candidate whose appointment will
assist the department in achieving its Employment Equity targets in terms of the
Department’s Employment Equity Plan. Preference will be given to coloured and
white candidates. Suitably qualified People with disabilities will be given preference
regardless of Race or Gender.
POST 22/43 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: PROCUREMENT REF NO: 3/1/5/1-
26/12
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant should be in possession of an appropriate Higher Certificate (NQF Level
5) as recognised by SAQA in Public Management, Administration, Logistics
Management, Public Finance, Accounting, Purchasing Management or equivalent
related qualification. General exposure in the logistics and compliance
management field will be an advantage The candidate must have basic knowledge
of BAS, LOGIS and Procurement Integration (PI). Excellent writing and
communication skills, ability to manage and plan. Ability to interpret and apply
legislation and policies (PFMA, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act
(PPPFA), Preferential Procurement Regulations, B-BBEE, Treasury Regulations,
Contract Management, etc.). Ability to work independently without close
supervision. Knowledge of the Microsoft packages (i.e. MS word, MS Excel as well
as Ms Outlook). Modified Cash Standard and interpretation of financial statements.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be an entry point responsible for compliance, receive
requisition from internal clients online. Verify e-requisitions for compliance in line
with prescripts. Check and verify the status of suppliers on the Central Suppliers
Database before accepting of e-requisitions. Approve compliant requisitions on-
line using SharePoint in compliance with the turnaround time set by the
department. Return non-compliant requisitions back to the client quoting the
prescript that is being transgressed. Print hard copies of compliant requisitions and
submit to supervisor to distribute to the relevant officials for capturing on LOGIS.
Updating e-requisitions on SharePoint 8 immediately with the relevant order
numbers to ensure that accurate record of turnaround time is reflected when
printing the SharePoint turnaround time reports. Print SharePoint reports on
outstanding requisition and requisitions updated with order numbers on
SharePoint, daily as per the standard set by the department and provide to
supervisor. Provide weekly reports on erequisition from SharePoint as per the
standard set by the department. Provide monthly reports on e-requisitions from
SharePoint as per the standard set by the department. Assist with capturing of
requests on LOGIS. Handling of queries and enquiries related to requisitions and
or orders and provide responses also in writing for turnaround time purposes.
Timeous reporting of system issues to the supervisor and to ensure that internal
clients are informed timeously. Performing any other duties as delegated by the
respective supervisors and managers within the SCM environment. Provide
effective and efficient client services. Please detail courses passed in the CV as
per the academic transcript.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mary-Jane Rabodiba Tel No: (012) 473 0172
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must submit their applications via the link
http://erecruitment.gcis.gov.za or hand deliver applications to Tshedimosetso
House, 1035 cnr Francis Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria.
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of the
post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic transcript. Note:
This post will be filled by a suitably qualified candidate whose appointment will
assist the department in achieving its Employment Equity targets in terms of the
Department’s Employment Equity Plan. Preference will be given to coloured and
white candidates. Suitably qualified People with disabilities will be given preference
regardless of Race or Gender.
28
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION
CLOSING DATE : 13 July 2026
NOTE : “A skilled and capable workforce for an inclusive growth” The full details for the
adverts can be accessed on DHET Website At www.dhet.gov.za Or
https://www.dhet.gov.za/sitepages/careers.aspx And Will Be Placed On The DPSA
Circular DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing
the Departmental Website (click ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply and following the easy prompts/instructions.
Upload the supporting documents namely, (1) a comprehensive CV, and (2) copies
of all qualifications (including matriculation), identity document, valid driver’s
licence, and any other document (where required). A fully completed and signed
(electronic signature) Z83 form will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos
will assist in how to complete the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies on or before the
day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Candidates whose
appointments promote representativity in terms of race, gender, and disability will
receive preference. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to
assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability
based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate(s) will be
required to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment will
take place without the successful completion of the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement, disclose
his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be
subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship
verification, qualification/study verification, and previous employment verification).
Applications received after the closing date will not be considered. “DHET is
committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing affirmative action
employment. It is our intention to promote representativity in terms of (race, gender,
disability) in the organization. People living with disabilities are encouraged to
apply’’.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 22/44 : DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE MONITORING AND EVALUATION IN THE OFFICE OF
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: NSF (REF NO: NSF 01/07/2026) (1 POST)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development Component: National Skills Fund
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum. (Level 13) (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/advanced diploma (NQF Level 7) in Monitoring
and Evaluation/ Public Administration/ Public Management/ Development Studies/
Social Sciences/ Economics/ Statistics/ Strategic Management/ Business
Management, or a related field. A postgraduate qualification will serve as an added
advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle or senior managerial level.
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS pre-entry programme is
required before appointment, as required for all SMS appointments. Experience in
executive monitoring, evaluation, performance tracking, audit action tracking,
corrective action monitoring, strategic reporting, governance reporting, public
sector programme oversight or institutional transition reporting. Experience in a
PFMA regulated entity, Schedule 3A environment, public sector institution or PSET
related environment will be an added advantage. Knowledge: PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Skills Development
Act, Skills Development Levies Act, DPME planning and reporting frameworks,
Framework for Managing Programme Performance Information, AGSA audit
requirements, risk management, internal controls, executive governance
processes and the NSF mandate. Competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership, programme and project management, financial management, change
management, knowledge management, service delivery innovation, problem
29
solving and analysis, people management and empowerment, client orientation
and customer focus, communication, honesty and integrity. A valid drivers licence.
DUTIES : Provide executive monitoring and evaluation support to the CEO on CEO directed
priorities, Schedule 3A transition milestones, audit action plans, corrective action
commitments and governance decisions. Develop and maintain an executive
tracking dashboard for priority institutional commitments. Consolidate evidence-
based progress reports for the CEO and executive structures. Track
implementation of decisions from executive, governance, audit, labour and
oversight engagements. Identify delays, risks and unresolved actions requiring
CEO intervention. Support evidence readiness and quality of reporting on CEO
directed workstreams. Provide monitoring and evaluation advice linked to the
NSF’s transition to Schedule 3A status. Managing the performance of employees
in accordance with policy. Providing employees with the necessary information and
resources to deliver on their objectives and meet the targets of the directorates.
Supporting the implementation of all management decisions. Managing employees
related matters withing the directorate. Preparing monthly reports and make
presentations as required. Prepare all relevant submissions and progress reports
on the transformation and reforms and reports to the Accounting Authority and
Executive Authority and governance structures. Participating as an active member
of the NSF. Undertake policy or line function tasks as required. Compile
memoranda, reports, submissions and a variety of other correspondence for the
Executive Officer as required. Compile presentations and basic speeches for the
Executive Officer and or refer complex matters to the relevant unit for preparation.
Draft responses for submission to internal and external stakeholders. Source
information and compile memoranda as required. Coordinate, follow up and
compile reports of a transverse nature for the Executive Officer and
advise/sensitise the Executive Officer on reports to be submitted. Provide support
and undertake special projects as directed by the Executive Officer. Monitor unit
activities to ensure conformance with goals and objectives. Manage public liaison
services within the NSF. Manage public liaison services within the NSF. Oversee
the logging of public complaints or queries regarding the NSF’s service. Oversee
the monitoring of progress of the resolution of the public’s complaints or queries
escalate with the relevant directorates to ensure complaints or queries are
attended to timeously and efficiently. Review monthly reports reflecting complaints
or queries received and resolved. Managing resources of the directorate.
Monitoring expenditure for the directorate against the allocated budget within NSF.
Managing the performance of employees in accordance with policy. Providing
employees with the necessary information and resources to deliver on their
objectives and meet the targets of the directorates. Supporting the implementation
of all management decisions. Managing employees related matters withing the
directorate. Always adhere to the values of NSF.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms B
Setuki (012) 943 3161
POST 22/45 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR IN THE OFFICE OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
NSF (REF NO: NSF 02/07/2026) (1 POST)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development Component: National Skills Fund
SALARY : R932 292 per annum. (Level 11) (All-Inclusive Remuneration Package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/advanced diploma (NQF Level 7) in Public
Management/Administration/ Project Management. A minimum of five (5) years
relevant work experience with at least three (3) to five (5) years’ proven work
experience of junior management level on salary level 9 or 10. Experience in
Project Management and managing resources. Knowledge of Public service and
NSF mandates and strategies. Knowledge of the education system and pedagogy,
post school education framework, government wide legislation. Legislative
knowledge and prescripts e.g. Skills Development Act, Skills Development Levies
Act, Public Service Act, PFMA and National Treasury Regulations, General
knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Further skills and competency
requirement relate to strategic capability and leadership and communication
management and people management and empowerment, problem solving and
analysis, technical proficiency, project management. Good computer skills and a
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Providing strategic support to the Executive Office within NSF. Advising the
Executive Officer on strategic matters. Ensuring effective coordination and
oversight of all strategic initiatives within the NSF. Planning and implementing
strategic initiatives in line with the NSF mission and mandate. Conducting
assessment to measure the accomplishment of strategic decisions and initiative.
Develop and collate reports on strategic initiatives as required within the
directorate. Proving support within the office of the Executive Officer. Scrutinise
documents to determine actions or information required. Record minutes or
resolutions and communicate to the relevant role players, follow up on progress
30
made and prepare briefing notes as well as other documents. Compile the agenda
of meetings chaired by the Executive Officer and ensure the circulation of
accompanying memoranda. Coordinate branch meetings including overseeing the
logistics. Coordinate parliamentary enquiries with the relevant stakeholders.
Coordinate the performance agreements/assessments and financial disclosures
pertaining to the Office of the Executive Officer. Assist the Executive Officer in
formulating policy recommendations and attend Senior management meetings.
Managing general support services within the Office of the Executive Officer.
Oversee, support and supervise all administrative functions. Implement
administrative measures to ensure efficient working of Office of the Executive
Officer. Manage the engagements of the Executive Officer. Manage schedules,
calendars, presentations, spreadsheets and other related office tasks. Handle all
correspondence and queries requiring the attention of the Executive Officer. Set
up and maintain the systems in the office that will ensure efficiency in the office.
Oversee safe keeping of all documents for the Office of the Executive Officer so
as to ensure compliance with archive legislation and to enhance information
security. Provide content support with regards to documents (submissions, reports,
letters, etc.) to and from the Office of the Executive Office. Managing resources of
the directorate. Monitoring expenditure for the directorate against the allocated
budget within NSF. Managing the performance of employees in accordance with
policy. Providing employees with the necessary information and resources to
deliver on their objectives and meet the targets of the directorates. Supporting the
implementation of all management decisions. Managing employees related
matters withing the directorate. Always adhere to the values of NSF.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms B
Setuki (012) 943 3161
POST 22/46 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT (REF NO: NSF 03/07/2026) (1 POST)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development Component: National Skills Fund Directorate: Internal
Audit
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (All-inclusive Remuneration Package) (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree / advanced diploma (NQF level 7) in Internal
Auditing or related qualification. A postgraduate degree or a professional
qualification / designation such as Internal Audit Technician or Professional
Internal Auditor or Certified Internal Auditor or Chartered Accountant and a
completed article contract with an audit firm will be an added advantage. A
minimum of six (6) to eight (8) years of work experience in internal and/or external
auditing in an audit firm or large corporation or preferably the public sector. At least
five (5) years of junior management and/or ASD experience. Experience in
specialised audits such as Information Technology auditing and/or forensic
auditing will be an added advantage. Extensive knowledge of the International
Professional Practice Framework (IPPF) including the Global Internal Audit
Standards, Internal Audit Methodologies as well as knowledge of developments in
the Internal Audit field is also required. A thorough understanding of Government
processes and the role and function of internal audit and the audit committee in the
public sector, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury
Regulations, Skills Development Act (SDA), Skills Development Levies Act
(SDLA), Public Service Regulations 2016 (PSR), Public Service Act (PSA), Labour
Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act
(BCEA) and General Recognised Accounting Practice. Good knowledge of public
service mandates and strategies, and in particular the post school education and
training system, will be an added advantage. Skills and competency requirements
include people management, project management, financial management,
planning and organising, sound report writing and computer literacy skills, effective
verbal and written communication and interpersonal skills, attention to detail,
preparing and delivering presentations, sound analytical and problem-solving
skills, the ability to work independently and in a team. Implementation of effective
actions and processes to ensure that deadlines are met. Supervision, training, and
guiding all personnel reporting to you. The ability to work under pressure. Proven
leadership qualities with strong strategic and operational management thinking.
The ability to analyse processes and identify appropriate, value adding and key
audit criteria and root causes and to prioritise and assess audit outcomes during
the full audit cycle. A valid driver’s license and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Assist the Director: Internal Audit (CAE) with the management of the internal audit
function of the NSF; Draft the annual NSF internal audit plan and rolling three-year
internal audit plan; Draft and/or update key documents as required per Global
Internal Audit Standards for the internal audit directorate. Monitor the
implementation of the internal audit plan. Provide reasonable assurance to the
CAE, management, the Audit Committee and Accounting Authority of the NSF that
the organisational internal controls are both effective and efficient. Plan and
perform audit procedures to confirm effectiveness of controls over quarterly and
31
annual performance reporting. Conduct operational audits, financial audits, internal
compliance audits, performance audits and evaluate if NSF is being effectively
managed and resources are not misused. Plan and perform and/or oversee that
audits are performed in accordance with the Global Internal Audit Standards.
Internal audits will include project site visits. Complete and/or review audit working
papers of high quality in accordance with internal audit methodology of the NSF.
Manage follow up audits. Evaluate adequacy of and progress against external and
internal audit action plans. Oversee that effective and efficient secretariat services
are provided to the Audit Committee. Oversee and monitor the implementation of
Audit Committee recommendations. Provide an oversight role of the co-sourced
service providers in terms of planning, execution, review and reporting of audits
performed by the co-sourced service provider. Provide inputs to the combined
assurance audit strategy and related reports relating to internal audit assurance.
Provide assurance over the design and implementation of internal controls related
fraud prevention and fraud prevention strategy. Evaluate the adequacy of ongoing
fraud awareness within business units through regular training and communication
initiatives. Communicate audit findings by preparing and/or reviewing a draft report
and discuss findings with managers of departments. Draft regular reports to the
Audit Committee; Auditor-General and other relevant parties, as requested by the
CAE. Evaluate and provide assurance over the risk management functions of the
NSF. Manage the performance of the internal audit team in accordance with policy.
Provide team members with the necessary information and resources to deliver on
their objectives. Motivate team members and create a culture of high performance.
Manage employee related matters within the team. Participate as an active
member of the management team to facilitate teamwork in achieving overall
objectives of the NSF. Operate within delegated authority. Adhere at all times to
the values of the National Skills Fund. Prepare monthly reports and make
presentations as required. Actively participate in management meetings. Positively
support the implementation of all management decisions, within objectivity and
independence requirements of internal audit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms B
Setuki (012) 943 3161
POST 22/47 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK AND COMPLIANCE (REF NO: NSF 04/07/2026)
MANAGEMENT (2 POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Legal, Governance, Risk and Compliance
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (All-Inclusive Remuneration Package) (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate LLB degree and admitted as an attorney or advocate. A minimum
of five (5) to eight (8) years’ collective working experience of which five (5) years
should be at a junior management level in legal, governance, risk and/or
compliance in the private or public sector. Qualification in Risk Management and/or
Compliance will be an added advantage. This is a middle management position
which requires a dynamic hardworking individual with deep knowledge of
legislative frameworks, policies and procedures that govern the public sector, as
well as practical experience in providing legal services, risk management,
compliance services and governance services. Further skills and competency
requirements relate to excellent written; verbal communication; computer skills;
research and policy formulation skills; presentation skills; analytical and problem-
solving skills, negotiation, quality management, budgeting and financial
management and human resource management. The incumbent must be service
delivery orientated, customer focused, maintain integrity and be able to work in a
team environment. Good knowledge of the Post-School Education and Training
system will be an added advantage. Good computer skills and a valid driver’s
license are requirements. Candidates must be willing to travel, work irregular hours
and be committed to meet deadlines within tight timeframes. Candidates must be
confident, trustworthy, accurate and adaptable, must have integrity. The successful
candidate will have to annually disclose his/her financial interests.
DUTIES : Advise the National Skills Fund (NSF) on legal and litigation matters within the
NSF. Drafting legal documents such as contracts, pleadings, agreements, internal
policies, etc. Develops operational plans on legal matters in the NSF. Analyses,
prepares, and submits legal opinions and comments. Facilitates internal training
on legal and regulatory topics to keep the NSF abreast of regulatory issues and
disseminates appropriate legal requirements to staff. Manages and engages with
third party legal advisors. Interprets legal information. Participates in committees
as required. Negotiates, reviews and drafts documentation for transactions with
third parties. Reviews and develops contracts, agreements, regulations, and
internal policies and ensures they are compliant with all statutory or legal
requirements. Acts as custodian for all contracts, agreements, regulations, and
internal policies. Keeps abreast of latest legislation, regulation, and policy. Ensures
the maintenance of an effective knowledge management system for all legal
32
related material. Reviews key business activities to ensure compliance with
standards, policies, and regulations. Ensures high risk compliance and governance
areas are proactively identified and mitigated. Implements and maintains the risk
assessment process and risk profile of the NSF. Investigates and analyses root
causes, patterns, or trends of the risk assessment. Consults with department
heads to establish, maintain, and improve risk management capabilities. Ensure
sufficient capacity to achieve the objectives of the Directorate. Manage the
performance of employees in accordance with policy. Provide employees with the
necessary information and resources to deliver on their objectives and meet the
objectives of the Directorate. Motivate team members and create a culture of high
performance. Manage leave and related administration for direct reports. Prepare
monthly reports and make presentations as required. Positively support the
implementation of all management decisions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms B
Setuki (012) 943 3161
POST 22/48 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DESIGN (REF NO: NSF 05/07/2026)
(1 POST)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Human Resources Management and Development
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (All-inclusive remuneration package) (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor's degree or advanced diploma (NQF Level 7) in Human
Resources Management, Industrial and Organisational Psychology, Public
Administration, or a related field recognised by SAQA. A postgraduate qualification
(NQF Level 8 or higher) will be an added advantage. Certification in job evaluation
methodology, work-study, or organisational design will be an added advantage. A
minimum of five (5) years' relevant experience in organisational design, post
establishment management, or a directly related discipline, of which at least three
(3) years must be at junior management level or in a supervisory capacity.
Experience must include at least two of the following: developing or reviewing
organisational structures in a public sector or public entity environment; conducting
work-study investigations or work-measurement studies; coordinating job
evaluation processes; developing job descriptions; and producing business
process maps or standard operating procedures. Applicants must demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of the following: the Public Service Act (No. 103 of
1994) and Public Service Regulations; DPSA guidelines and directives on
organisational design, post establishment, and organisational restructuring; the
Compensate job evaluation system or an equivalent recognised methodology;
PERSAL post administration; work-study investigation methodology; business
process mapping principles; and the Public Finance Management Act (No. 1 of
1999). Knowledge of the NSF's mandate as a Schedule 3A Public Entity and the
structural and post establishment requirements associated with its transition to
autonomous entity status will be a strong advantage. Candidates must be proficient
in Microsoft Office Suite. PERSAL proficiency or a PERSAL certificate will be an
added advantage. The ability to analyse functional requirements, translate them
into post structures, draft technically precise job descriptions, and prepare DPSA-
compliant submissions is essential. Strong written and verbal communication,
stakeholder engagement, project management, and report-writing skills are
required. A DPSA job analyst certificate and a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Conduct functional analyses across NSF directorates and components to
determine optimal post structures, reporting lines, spans of control, and role
boundaries aligned to the NSF Strategic Plan 2025-2030 and its operating model
as a Schedule 3A entity. Develop, review, and maintain organisational structure
proposals and post establishment submissions, including cost implications, in
compliance with DPSA prescripts and Treasury requirements. Conduct work-study
investigations and work-measurement studies to determine required post
numbers, grading rationale, and workload distribution, and produce work-study
reports with recommendations. Develop, review, and maintain job descriptions for
all posts in the NSF establishment, ensuring alignment to the approved structure,
Compensate job evaluation criteria, DPSA post classification directives, and the
NSF delegation of authority framework. Coordinate the job evaluation process for
NSF posts in accordance with the Compensate system and DPSA directives, and
prepare evaluation submissions, motivation reports, and post grading proposals
for the relevant approving authority. Develop and maintain business process maps
and standard operating procedures for HR and cross-functional processes and
facilitate periodic reviews to ensure they remain current and fit for purpose. Prepare
business case reports, organisational design proposals, and concurrency
submissions for approval by EXCO and, where required, for submission to the
DPSA. Monitor the implementation of approved structural decisions, track
33
anomalies, and report progress to the Director: HRM&D. Supervise and manage
the performance of subordinate staff within the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms B
Setuki (012) 943 3161
POST 22/49 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGIC SUPPORT (REF NO:
NSF 06/07/2026) (1 POST)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Human Resources Management and Development
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (All-inclusive remuneration package) (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor's degree or advanced diploma (NQF Level 7) in Human
Resources Management, Human Resources Development, Industrial and
Organisational Psychology, Public Administration, or a related field recognised by
SAQA. A postgraduate qualification (NQF Level 8 or higher) will be an added
advantage. A minimum of five (5) years' relevant experience in HR strategy, HR
planning, employment equity, or HR compliance, of which at least three (3) years
must be at junior management level or in a supervisory capacity within a public
sector or public entity environment. Experience must include at least two of the
following: developing or implementing HR plans, employment equity plans, or
workplace skills plans; managing HR compliance and statutory reporting;
developing or reviewing HR policies and procedures; and producing HR
management information or analytical reports for executive or oversight structures.
Applicants must demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following: the
Public Service Act (No. 103 of 1994) and Public Service Regulations; the
Employment Equity Act (No. 55 of 1998) and its reporting requirements; the Skills
Development Act (No. 97 of 1998) and Skills Development Levies Act; the DPSA
Professionalisation Framework (2024); relevant DPSA circulars and directives on
HR planning, equity, and reporting; the Public Finance Management Act (No. 1 of
1999); and PERSAL HR administration. Knowledge of the NSF's mandate as a
Schedule 3A Public Entity and the HR compliance obligations associated with its
transition to entity status will be a strong advantage. Candidates must be proficient
in Microsoft Office Suite. PERSAL proficiency or a PERSAL certificate will be an
added advantage. Strong analytical, report-writing, stakeholder engagement, and
communication skills are required. The ability to translate legislative and policy
requirements into implementable HR plans, and to produce clear compliance
reports for EXCO, DPSA, and the Department of Employment and Labour, is
essential. A valid driver's licence.
DUTIES : Develop, implement, and monitor the NSF Human Resource Plan in compliance
with the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, and DPSA planning
directives, and submit the plan to the Director: HRM&D for approval and onward
submission to the DPSA. Develop, implement, and monitor the NSF Employment
Equity Plan in accordance with the Employment Equity Act, coordinate EE
committee processes, and prepare and submit statutory EE reports to the
Department of Employment and Labour within prescribed timeframes. Coordinate
the development, review, and implementation of the NSF's HR strategy, ensuring
alignment to the NSF Strategic Plan 2025-2030, the DPSA Professionalisation
Framework (2024), and the requirements of a Schedule 3A entity. Develop, review,
and maintain HR policies, procedures, and guidelines applicable to the NSF, and
maintain a current, accessible HR policy register. Coordinate the compilation and
submission of all HR statutory and compliance reports required by the DPSA, the
Department of Employment and Labour, the NSF Committees or Board, and other
oversight structures, within prescribed deadlines. Develop and maintain the NSF's
HR management information system data integrity, and produce HR analytical
reports, dashboards, and exception reports for management decision-making.
Monitor compliance with HR prescripts across the NSF, identify non-compliance
risks, and develop corrective action plans for the Director's consideration. Liaise
with the DPSA, the Department of Employment and Labour, and other relevant
bodies on HR planning, equity, and compliance matters on behalf of the NSF.
Supervise and manage the performance of subordinate staff within the sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki
(012) 943 3161
POST 22/50 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FUND MANAGEMENT (REF NO: NSF 07/07/2026) (1
POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Fund Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (All-Inclusive Remuneration Package) (Level 11)
34
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/advanced diploma (NQF level 7) in Financial
Management/ Accounting. A minimum of five (5) to ten (10) years of work
experience in financial management, accounting, or auditing in the private or public
sector with at least three (3) to five (5) years of junior management. Candidates
with articles served with accounting/auditing firm registered with South African
Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA) are encouraged to apply. Candidates
with CA (SA) designation or studying towards CA (such as ITC or APC) will have
a distinct advantage. Further skills and competency requirements related to
strategic capability and leadership, budgeting, and financial management, problem
solving and analysis, Knowledge management and technical proficiency, quality
management, monitoring and evaluation, negotiations and stakeholder
engagement and communication management, change management and people
management and empowerment. This is a financial management position that
requires a dynamic hardworking individual, who is service delivery oriented,
customer-focused, maintains high integrity and can perform in a team environment.
Good knowledge of financial frameworks and financial legislations and prescripts
applicable to the public sector will be an added advantage. Good computer skills.
Candidate must be willing to travel extensively across the country and work
irregular hours with tight timeframes. Knowledge: Public Financial Management
Act (PFMA), Skills Development Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Public Service
Regulations 2016 (PSR), Public Service Act (PSA), Labour Relations Act,
Employment Equity Act, Basic Condition of Employment Act (BCEA), National
Treasury Regulation, General Recognised Accounting Practice. Skill and
competencies requirements related to people management, project management,
financial management, planning and organising, computer literacy, writing skills,
verbal communication, attention to detail, preparing and delivering presentations,
performing analysis, and resolving problems, and quality management. A valid
driver’s license and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Provide financial management support to NSF team project managers and skills
development providers for the portfolio of skills development projects funded by
NSF, Perform financial due diligence during the initiation of new skills development
projects; Perform financial monitoring of the portfolio of projects including
monitoring project expenditure against actual performance and approved budget;
Perform financial reporting for the portfolio of projects during the execution and
close-out thereof. Check and approve project payment drawdown requests;
Prepare relevant financial workbooks, and develop monthly, quarterly, annual, and
ad hoc financial reports; Provide the expenditure forecasting for a portfolio of
projects; Prepare audits files for a portfolio of projects for use during auditing by
the Auditor General of South Africa and internal audit; Participate as an active
member of the NSF financial team.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki
(012) 943 3161
POST 22/51 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INITIATION AND EVALUATION (REF NO:
NSF08/07/2026) (6 POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Chief Directorate: Skills Development Implementation
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (All-Inclusive Remuneration Package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/ advanced diploma (NQF Level 7) in
Development Studies, Public Management or Public Administration and
Governance, Development Finance, Economics, Finance, Philosophy, Politics and
Economics (PPE), Monitoring and Evaluation, Project Management, Accounting,
or a related qualification within Human Resource Development, Financial
Management, Business Management/Administration, Bachelor of Science,
Bachelor of Social Sciences, Bachelor of Engineering or Public Sector
Governance. This must be coupled with a minimum of five (5) years’ relevant
experience in project management, programme management, evaluation, or
project funding with 3 years’ experience in a junior management level. Candidates
with a proven track record in project initiation and evaluation, programme and
portfolio management, or funding administration within the public or private sector
will have a distinct advantage. Experience in managing high-volume funding
processes, infrastructure or development projects, and exposure to governance-
intensive environments will be beneficial. A sound understanding of the Post-
School Education and Training (PSET) system will serve as an added advantage.
This is a middle management position within a highly regulated and governance-
intensive environment, requiring a dynamic and results-driven individual with
strong leadership and coordination capabilities. The successful candidate must
possess a solid understanding of project initiation, evaluation, and due diligence
processes, as well as knowledge of public sector governance frameworks,
35
including the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and related regulatory
prescripts. The role requires excellent analytical, problem-solving, and report
writing skills, with the ability to manage multiple complex processes
simultaneously. The incumbent must demonstrate strong communication and
stakeholder engagement capabilities and be proficient in monitoring and
evaluation, financial analysis and budgeting, risk and compliance management,
knowledge management, and quality assurance processes. The candidate must
be client-oriented, service delivery focused, and able to perform effectively within
a team and under pressure. Proficiency in Microsoft Office and ICT systems is
essential. A valid driver’s license is required. The successful candidate must be
willing to travel extensively across the country and occasionally internationally,
work irregular hours, and meet strict deadlines within tight timeframes. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the effective implementation of the
project initiation and evaluation lifecycle within the National Skills Fund (NSF),
ensuring that all funding processes are conducted in a compliant, transparent, and
efficient manner. This includes the implementation and management of Requests
for Proposals (RFPs), Expressions of Interest (EOIs), and unsolicited funding
processes, as well as the development and application of funding frameworks,
evaluation templates, and application guidelines aligned to NSF policies and
strategic objectives. The incumbent will oversee the receipt, logging, and tracking
of all funding applications and ensure the effective coordination and execution of
evaluation processes. This includes conducting and/or overseeing administrative
compliance checks, tax compliance verification, restriction checks, technical
evaluations, and reputational risk assessments. This requires ensuring that all
evaluation processes are conducted fairly, consistently, and in accordance with
approved criteria and governance standards. A key responsibility of the role
includes conducting and reviewing due diligence processes, including site visits
and institutional verification, to assess the capacity, credibility, and readiness of
applicants. The incumbent will be required to validate the accuracy of information
provided by applicants and identify and mitigate risks associated with funding
decisions. The Deputy Director will play a critical role in supporting governance
and decision-making processes by preparing and submitting comprehensive
reports, submissions, and recommendation packs for internal governance
structures, including the Funding Recommendation Committee (FRC) and the
Funding Adjudication Committee (FAC). The role also involves coordinating and
administering committee processes, including scheduling meetings, preparing
documentation, and recording minutes, as well as preparing submissions and
memoranda for the Executive Office (EO), Director-General (DG), and other
relevant stakeholders. The incumbent will support contracting readiness by
facilitating the preparation of Memoranda of Agreement (MOA), and related
documentation, ensuring alignment between approved project budgets and
implementation plans. The role further requires contributing to the development of
monitoring and evaluation frameworks and conducting or overseeing project
reviews, impact assessments, and performance evaluations to assess the
effectiveness and outcomes of funded programmes. In addition, the Deputy
Director will be responsible for preparing and submitting reports, presentations,
and performance updates as required, and ensuring that all documentation and
information related to project initiation and evaluation are properly maintained for
knowledge management and audit purposes. The role requires active engagement
with internal and external stakeholders across the PSET sector, participation in
national, regional, and local platforms, and provision of guidance and support on
skills development initiatives. The incumbent will also be responsible for managing
staff under his or her supervision, providing leadership, guidance, and performance
management, and contributing to the overall effectiveness and cohesion of the
Directorate. The role requires active participation as a member of the Directorate
team and contributing to continuous improvement and organisational excellence
within the NSF.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki
(012) 943 3161
POST 22/52 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RESEARCH (REF NO: NSF09/07/2026) (1 POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Chief Directorate: Strategy, Innovation and Organizational Performance
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-Inclusive Remuneration Package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/ advanced diploma (NQF Level 7) in Economics,
Econometrics and/or Statistics. A minimum of three (3) to five (5) years’ collective
working experience within the Research field with three (3) years’ experience in a
junior management level. The candidate should also have experience in economic
research and analysis, experience in statistical analysis and/or economic
36
modelling, good writing skills, intermediate to advanced level proficiency in Excel
with prior experience in using STATA, SPSS or SAS with knowledge of the Public
Service and NSF mandates and strategies, Knowledge of the education system
and pedagogy, Post school education and training system, Government wide
legislation, Legislative Knowledge and Prescripts, e.g. Skills Development Act,
Skills Development Levies Act, Public Service Act, PFMA and National Treasury
Regulations, General knowledge of Public Service Regulations, NSF business
strategies and goals, NSF Services, NSF business processes and value chain,
NSF policies, procedures and regulations, Customer Service, NSF Values, NSF
goals and performance requirements. Must be able to take accountability, practice
service excellence, be collaborative, have Integrity, passion, developmental, be
objective, dedicated, committed and willing to work irregular hours and do
extensive travel. A valid driver’s license. Skills: Applying Technology, Citizen Focus
and Responsiveness, Diversity Management, be able to have an impact and
influence decisions, to manage interpersonal conflict and resolving problems, be
able to do networking and build bonds, plan and organize with excellent problem
solving and decision making skills, shows concern for others with good self-
management abilities, have good quality management, be able to manage and
exercise research and analysis with technical proficiency.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to conduct and manage socio-economic
analysis and research by analysing and evaluating the effectiveness and impact of
the NSF’s projects and programmes on beneficiaries and institutions. Undertake
cost benefit analysis to determine the value for money of the NSF’s programmes.
Establish the demand for scarce and critical skills across different sectors of the
economy and assess the supply of training programmes across the different types
of institutions and match them to NSF’s planned interventions. Estimate the
contribution of the NSF to the goals set out in the White Paper for Post School
Education and Training and keep abreast of developments in research on labour
markets and the skills system. Provide evidence and analysis to support the NSF’s
strategic planning and reporting processes by providing evidence and analysis to
support the NSF’s strategic planning processes. Draft reports on the NSF’s
progress against its targets and draft research reports for publication on the NSF
website. Work with the skills planning mechanism within the DHET to ensure
strategic alignment. Participate as an active member of the Directorate team by
operating within delegated authorizations, adhering at all times to the values of the
NSF and preparing monthly reports and making presentations as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki
(012) 943 3161
POST 22/53 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY AND
ANALYTICS (REF NO: NSF10/07/2026) (1 POST)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Information Communication Technology And Analytics
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-Inclusive Remuneration Package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree / advanced diploma (NQF level 7) in Information
Technology, Computer Science, Information Systems, Informatics or a related field
and certified in Veeam Certified Engineer (VMCE) or VMware Certified
Professional (VCP). A postgraduate qualification and certifications such as ITIL,
COBIT, PMP, CISM or CISSP, CompTIA Security+ (for security-focused
environments and knowledge of virtualization (VMware Hyper-V) and Microsoft
D365 will be an added advantage. A minimum of five (5) years’ relevant experience
in ICT, of which at least three (3) years must have been at a junior management
level. Working knowledge of the Public Service Corporate Governance of ICT
Policy Framework (DPSA), the National e-Government Strategy and Roadmap, the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), the Cybercrimes Act, the PFMA,
and the ICT House of Values. Practical experience in managing, maintaining and
lead the core Backup infrastructure, rectify faults affecting Backup Infrastructure
availability and capacity, install Backup server, and ensure that the organisational
data is backed up and restores are functional. Provide 2nd,3rd line, and supervisor
support to End User Computing (EUC) resources. Resolve medium to high
operational incidents and provide support and associated services in the client’s
enterprise LAN /End-user environment to ensure good service delivery, and ICT
vendor and SLA management. Strong leadership, project management,
stakeholder engagement and report-writing skills. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Infrastructure Management: Deploy, patch, and monitor physical and virtual
servers, storage networks (SAN/NAS), and cloud environments (Azure). Oversee
and manage backup jobs and schedules, restore process (VM, files and
databases) and resolution of high medium operational incidents. Implementation
of all backup services and solutions relating to the Backup infrastructure and
Directory services. Design procedures and standards for Directory integrated
37
systems, Servers and related services and monitor implementation thereof.
Manage Mimecast platform administration of secure email gateway, email
continuity and targeted thread projection. Incident Response: Troubleshoot system
bottlenecks, hardware failures, and software issues, providing 2nd and 3rd-line
technical support. Monitor availability of the backup infrastructure full, incremental,
differential backups, replication and failover. Implementation of Server and
Services Toolsets & Dashboards. Performing DR drills and recovery tests.
Performing DR drills and recovery tests. Publish/ distribute server software/
hardware upgrade. Vendor Management & Procurement: Assist with budgeting,
contract negotiations, and evaluating third-party IT service providers. Coordinate
incident response and risk-mitigation actions. Manage ICT vendors and Service
Level Agreements; review performance against SLAs and PFMA-compliant
procurement. Manage the budget, expenditure and human resources of the sub-
directorate. Compile inputs into ICT governance committee, EXCO, Board and
Audit & Risk Committee reports. Support internal and external audits (AGSA,
Internal Audit) on ICT controls.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki
(012) 943 3161
POST 22/54 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE (REF NO: NSF11/07/2026) (3
POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Infrastructure PMU
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/ advanced diploma (NQF Level 7) in Civil
Engineering/Construction Management/ Quantity Surveying/Architecture/ Building
Science/ Infrastructure Management/ Project Management/ Build Environment.
This must be coupled with a minimum of five (5) years’ relevant experience in
infrastructure delivery, project management, programme management,
construction management, or infrastructure programme management with 3 years’
experience in a junior management level. A sound understanding of the Post-
School Education and Training (PSET) system will serve as an added advantage.
This is a middle management position within a highly regulated and governance-
intensive environment, requiring a dynamic and results-driven individual with
strong leadership and coordination capabilities. The successful candidate must
possess a solid understanding of infrastructure delivery as well as knowledge of
public sector governance frameworks, including the Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), infrastructure Delivery Management System, Infrastructure
Programme Management Plans, Treasury Regulations, Construction Industry
Development Board Act, Government Immovable Asset Management Act, National
Building Regulations and Building Standards Act and related regulatory prescripts.
The role requires excellent analytical, problem-solving, and report writing skills,
with the ability to manage multiple complex processes simultaneously. The
incumbent must demonstrate strong communication and stakeholder engagement
capabilities and be proficient in programme and project management, financial
analysis and budgeting, risk and compliance management, monitoring and
evaluation, and quality assurance processes. The candidate must be client-
oriented, service delivery focused, and able to perform effectively within a team
and under pressure. Proficiency in Microsoft Office and ICT systems is essential.
A valid driver’s license is required. The successful candidate must be willing to
travel extensively across the country and occasionally internationally, work
irregular hours, and meet strict deadlines within tight timeframes. A valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to manage and coordinate
infrastructure programmes and projects from planning to completion. Develop,
review and update infrastructure programme management plans. Review and
approve infrastructure programme implementation plans. Monitor implementation
of infrastructure projects to ensure compliance with approved plans, budgets and
timeframes. Monitor project progress and expenditure. Conduct site visits and
inspections to assess project performance and quality. Prepare monthly, quarterly
and annual infrastructure performance reports. Identify project risks and implement
mitigation measures. Ensure adherence to infrastructure norms, standards and
legislative requirements. Prepare procurement plans and project specifications.
Support infrastructure procurement processes in line with supply chain
management policies. Monitor performance of consultants, contractors and
implementing agents. Ensure compliance with contractual obligations and service
level agreements. Manage infrastructure budgets and expenditure. Monitor cash
flow projections and project financial performance. Ensure effective utilization of
infrastructure grants and NSF allocations The role also involves coordinating and
administering committee processes, including scheduling meetings, preparing
38
documentation, and recording minutes, as well as preparing submissions and
memoranda for the Executive Office (EO), Director-General (DG), and other
relevant stakeholders. The role requires active engagement with internal and
external stakeholders across the PSET sector, participation in national, regional,
and local platforms, and provision of guidance and support on skills development
initiatives. The incumbent will also be responsible for managing staff under his or
her supervision, providing leadership, guidance, and performance management,
and contributing to the overall effectiveness and cohesion of the Directorate. The
role requires active participation as a member of the Directorate team and
contributing to continuous improvement and organisational excellence within the
NSF.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki (012) 943
3161
POST 22/55 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT (REF NO: NSF12/07/2026) (1
POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development Component: National Skills Fund Directorate: Internal
Audit
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree / national diploma (NQF Level 6) in Internal
Auditing or related qualification. Registration with a professional body, professional
qualification / designation such as Internal Audit Technician or Professional
Internal Auditor will be an added advantage. A minimum of four (4) years’
experience in internal and/or external audit, including at least three (3) year’s
experience at supervisory level. Experience in specialised audits such as
Information Technology auditing and/or forensic auditing will be an added
advantage. Sound knowledge of Global Internal Audit Standards, Internal Audit
Methodology, Risk Management principles, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) and National Treasury Regulations, National Treasury Internal Audit
Framework, Public Service Regulations (PSR), Public Service Act (PSA), Labour
Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act
(BCEA), Occupational Health and Safety standards and Generally Recognised
Accounting Practice. Good knowledge of public service mandates and strategies,
and in particular the post school education and training system, will be an added
advantage. Project Management and ability to meet deadlines. Good verbal and
written communication skills, problem solving skills, analytical skills and attention
to detail. Good interpersonal skills and ability to interact at all levels and ability to
work in a team. Computer literacy, including experience with Microsoft Office.
Administration, planning and organising skills. Supervision, coaching, training and
motivation of team members. Ability to work under pressure. A valid driver’s license
and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Provide input in the development of the annual internal audit plan and rolling three-
year plan. Perform and/or review planning, execution, and reporting of internal
audits as per the approved Internal Audit Plan and in accordance with the Global
Internal Audit standards and best practice. Complete and/or review audit working
papers of high quality in accordance with the Internal Audit methodology of the
NSF. Draft and/or review internal audit findings. Drafting of internal audit reports.
Obtaining management comments and finalise the report within agreed timelines.
Perform follow up audits on internal audit and/or external audits. Assist with queries
of compliance or performance put forward to the internal audit directorate and
assist with performing of compliance and performance audits where required.
Compile and/or review an indexed and audit file for each audit conducted,
according to quality procedure and policy requirements. Meet deadlines for
submissions. Examine and execute the effectiveness and efficient use of
resources. Review current audit systems and processes to recommend
improvements to enhance effectiveness. Flag audit risks and breakdowns in the
internal control environment. Contribute to raising awareness of the internal audit
directorate unit by engaging with stakeholders. Compile and review regular time
sheets. Supervision, coaching, training and motivation of team members. Prepare
progress and audit reports for management. Assists the supervisor in the
performance of internal audit reviews. Monitor time and progress on projects and
report to Deputy Director. Provide administrative support to the Internal Audit
Directorate, including secretariat support to the Audit Committee, when assistance
is required. Keep abreast with global trends and best practice. Adhere at all times
to the values of the National Skills Fund. Operate within the policies, procedures
and rules of the National Skills Fund
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki (012) 943
3161
39
POST 22/56 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: REGIONAL SKILLS DEVELOPMENT MONITORING
(15 POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Chief Directorate: Skills Development Implementation
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : As per the reference number stated in the advertisement.
KZN Region: (Ref No: NSF13/07/2026) (3 Posts)
GP/FS/NW Region (Ref No: NSF14/07/2026) (5 Posts)
EC Region: (Ref No: NSF15/07/2026) (4 Posts)
LP/MP Region: (Ref No: NSF16/07/2026) (3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/ national diploma (NǪF Level 6) in Public
Administration/Management/ Business Management/ Monitoring and Evaluation/
Project Management/ Finance/ Human Resource Development. A minimum of
three (3) to five (5) years’ work experience at a supervisory level in project
management environment. Successful candidate must be willing to relocate to the
relevant Region as the Centre of operation will be within the relevant region and
Province. Must have the relevant knowledge of the Public Service and NSF
mandates and strategies. Knowledge of Post School Education Framework,
Government wide Legislation, Legislative Knowledge and Prescripts including the
Skills Development Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Public Service Act, Public
Financial Management Act, National Treasury Regulations, general knowledge of
the Public Service Regulations, NSF Business Strategies and goals, NSF services,
NSF business processes and value chain, NSF Policies, procedures and
regulations, NSF values, goals and performance requirements. The successful
candidate must be able to apply strategic thinking, apply technology, budget and
financial management experience, be able to manage communication and
information, good management, planning, organizing, problem solving, quality
management and decision-making skills. Must be able to manage projects and
programmes. Must be able to engage and manage Stakeholders. Monitoring and
evaluation skills. The suitable candidate must also be accountable, belief in service
excellence, be collaborative with integrity, passion and commitment towards the
NSF and its values. Must be willing to work irregular hours and do extensive travel.
A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Responsible for monitoring the implementation of projects at site level against the
log framework by monitoring the implementation of projects within the Region.
Facilitate the orientation and training of project service providers at learner site
level. Implement the monitoring and evaluation of log frames within a portfolio of
learner sites. Verify the accuracy and validity of performance reports. Monitor the
status of outputs from sites. Monitor site facilities and administration to ensure that
training provided by service providers meets the requirements of the Service Level
Agreement. Conduct site visits. Escalate and communicate risks to the relevant
Supervisor. Manage invoice and financial reporting. Liaise with project payment
officers on invoices and financial requests. Conduct due diligence regarding
change requests, complete change requests and communicate such to Supervisor.
Support project reporting by developing and uploading monthly and quarterly
project progress reports onto the knowledge management system. Manage and
maintain relationships with service providers of projects at site level and engage
and maintain good relationships with project payment officers regarding project
financials. Participate as an active member of the regional team by operating within
delegated authorizations, preparing monthly reports and presentations as required
and always adhering to the values of the NSF.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki
(012) 943 3161
POST 22/57 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROGRAMME MONITORING (REF NO:
NSF17/07/2026) (2 POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Programme Monitoring
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/ national diploma (NǪF Level 6) in Public
Administration/Management/ Business Management/ Monitoring and Evaluation/
Project Management/Finance A minimum of three (3) to five (5) years’ work
experience at a supervisory level in project management environment. Knowledge
and experience in assisting with the management of projects, portfolios of projects
and/or programmes in the private or public sector. This junior management position
in a core functional area requires a dynamic individual with leadership and people
management capabilities. The candidate must be a strong communicator with the
40
ability to interact with a wide range of stakeholders. Knowledge of legislative
framework, Skills Development Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Public Service
Act, Public Financial Management Act, and National Treasury Regulations. Further
skills requirements relate to technical proficiency, monitoring, and evaluation,
problem- solving and analysis, report writing, preparing presentations, marketing
and communication, knowledge management, quality management, budgeting and
financial management, human resource management, change management and
negotiation. The incumbent must be client orientated, customer focused and be
able to perform in a team environment. Good computer skills. Candidates must be
willing to travel the country extensively and travel abroad occasionally, work
irregular hours and be committed to meeting deadlines within tight timeframes. A
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation of projects in the national and facilitate the orientation
and training of project service providers at the learner site level. Implement the
monitoring and evaluation log frame within a portfolio of learner sites and monitor
performance against it. Verify the accuracy and validity of performance reports
from each learner site. Monitor the status of outputs from learner sites. Monitor
learner site facilities and administration to ensure that training by service provider
meets the requirements of the Service Level Agreement. Conduct site visits at a
portfolio of learner sites. Escalate risks to the Deputy Director: Programme
Monitoring. Manage invoicing and financial reporting for a portfolio of learner sites.
Liaise with project payment officers on invoices and financial requests. Attend to
all the projects audit matters. Escalate the issue to Deputy Director: Programme
Monitoring and other relevant stakeholders. Conduct due diligence regarding all
project’s activities including, but not limited to new projects, complete change
request documentation and submit to the Deputy Director: National Skills
Development Monitoring. Support project reporting and develop and upload
monthly and quarterly project progress reports onto the knowledge management
systems available to NSF. Review project progress reports and perform verification
site visits. Upload all documents related to projects onto the knowledge
management system in accordance with knowledge management policy and
process. Manage and maintain relationships with service providers of projects at a
site level. Engage and maintain good relationships with project payment officers
regarding project financials. Participate as an active member of the regional team
in all relevant structures of the NSF.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki
(012) 943 3161
POST 22/58 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INITIATION AND EVALUATION (REF NO:
NSF18/07/2026) (12 POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Chief Directorate: Skills Development Implementation
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/ national diploma (NQF Level 6) in Development
Studies, Public Management or Public Management and Governance,
Development Finance, Economics, Finance, Philosophy, Politics and Economics
(PPE), Monitoring and Evaluation, Project Management, Accounting, or a related
qualification within Human Resource Development, Financial Management,
Business Management/Administration, Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Social
Sciences, Bachelor of Engineering or Public Sector Governance is required. A
minimum of three (3) to five (5) years’ work experience at a supervisory level in
project management. Candidates that have experience or proven track record of
assisting in initiating and evaluating projects, portfolios of projects and/or
programmes in the private or public sector will have an added advantage.
Candidates that have experience in infrastructure or build project environment are
encouraged to apply. Good knowledge of Post School Education and Training
System will also be an added advantage. This is junior management position in a
core functional area that requires a dynamic individual with leadership and people
management capabilities. The candidate must be a strong communicator with the
ability to interact with a wide range of stakeholders. Further skills requirements
relate to technical proficiency, initiation, monitoring, evaluation, problem solving,
analysis, report writing, preparing presentations, marketing, communication,
knowledge management, quality management, budgeting, financial management,
human resources management, change management and negotiation. The
incumbent must be client orientated, customer focused and be able to perform in
a team environment. Good computer skills and a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Effective implementation of the project initiation and evaluation process in the
National Skills Fund (NSF). Receipt, logging and evaluation of applications for
solicited and unsolicited projects. Implement the Request for Proposal (RFP)
process for solicited projects. Effectively report on RFP applications in the various
41
stages of the project initiation process. Perform, engage and report on
administrative compliance, technical evaluation and due diligence on solicited and
unsolicited received project applications. Review due diligence/research
conducted on applicants for solicited and unsolicited projects. Check the accuracy
of the information received from applicants. Prepare draft Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) /Agreement (MOA) or Service Level Agreements (SLAs) for
service providers. Alignment of final implementation plan/business plan of the
approved project versus the approved project budget. Collaboratively develop the
monitoring and evaluation framework that defines monitoring principles and
evaluation metrics for the project. Prepare reports and packs for the Funding
Adjudication Committee (FAC). Manage and coordinate the preparation of
committee meetings. Administer administrative duties to the FAC including the
taking of meeting minutes. Prepare submissions/memorandums for the Executive
Office (EO), Director-General (DG) and other relevant stakeholders. Effectively
manage and implement the project evaluation process. Review the impact and
effectiveness of projects/programmes by conducting impact assessments/reviews
and/or overseeing impact assessments conducted externally. Timely submit
reports and make presentations as required. Ensure that all documentation and
information related to projects and programmes initiation and evaluation are
submitted for knowledge management purposes. Manage and engage with
internal/external stakeholders relevant to the initiation and evaluation of projects.
Actively participate in national, regional and local structures and platforms that are
relevant for effective skills development implementation. Manage staff under
his/her supervision. Provide feedback and advice regarding skills development
activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki
(012) 943 3161
POST 22/59 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STAKEHOLDER COORDINATION AND REPORTING
IN THE OFFICE OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: NSF (1 POST) (REF
NO: NSF 19/07/2026)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development Component: National Skills Fund
SALARY : R487 197 per annum. (Level 9)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/ national diploma (NQF Level 6) in Public
Administration/ Public Management/ Communications/ Stakeholder Relations/
Development Studies/ Social Sciences/ Business Administration/ Monitoring and
Evaluation/ or a related field. A minimum of three (3) to (5) years’ relevant
experience in stakeholder coordination, reporting, executive support, governance
administration, communications support, public liaison, project administration or
performance information support. Experience in stakeholder coordination, report
writing, meeting administration, correspondence tracking, action log management,
public liaison, records management and information coordination. Knowledge:
Stakeholder coordination, Batho Pele principles, report writing, records
management, meeting administration, Public Service Regulations, PFMA,
correspondence management, governance support, performance reporting and
the NSF mandate. Problem solving and analysis, client orientation,
communication, interpersonal relations, planning and organising, report writing,
computer literacy, teamwork, flexibility, attention to detail, confidentiality, integrity
and service delivery orientation. Good computer skills and a valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide stakeholder coordination and reporting support for CEO office
engagements. Maintain stakeholder records, engagement schedules, meeting
packs and follow up trackers. Draft reports, briefing notes, minutes, action logs and
stakeholder engagement summaries. Coordinate inputs from internal components
and external stakeholders for CEO engagements. Track stakeholder
commitments, correspondence and matters requiring CEO attention. Maintain
complete records and evidence files for reporting, audit and institutional memory.
Support reporting on Schedule 3A transition workstreams where required.
Managing employees related matters withing the directorate. Always adhere to the
values of NSF.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms B
Setuki (012) 943 3161
POST 22/60 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFRASTRASTURE (REF NO: NSF20/07/2026) (1
POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Infrastracture PMU
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria
42
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/ national diploma (NǪF Level 6) in Building
Environment, Civil Engineering, Construction Management, Quantity Surveying,
Architecture, Project Management. A minimum of three (3) to five (5) years’ work
experience at a supervisory level in infrastructure project management,
infrastructure delivery, construction management, or project monitoring and
evaluation. This junior management position in a core functional area requires a
dynamic individual with leadership and people management capabilities. The
candidate must be a strong communicator with the ability to interact with a wide
range of stakeholders. Knowledge of legislative framework, Skills Development
Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Public Service Act, Public Financial
Management Act, and National Treasury Regulations, Infrastructure Delivery
Management System, Occupational Health and Safety Act; Project Management
principles and methodologies. Further skills requirements relate to technical
proficiency, monitoring, and evaluation, problem- solving and analysis, report
writing, preparing presentations, marketing and communication, knowledge
management, quality management, budgeting and financial management, human
resource management, change management and negotiation. The incumbent
must be client orientated, customer focused and be able to perform in a team
environment. Good computer skills. Candidates must be willing to travel the
country extensively and travel abroad occasionally, work irregular hours and be
committed to meeting deadlines within tight timeframes. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Support the development and implementation of infrastructure project plans and
schedules. Participate in project initiation, feasibility assessments, and planning
processes. Review project implementation plans and ensure alignment with NSF
objectives and approved funding agreements. Assist in defining project scope,
deliverables, milestones, and performance indicators. Coordinate project activities
with implementing agents, service providers, beneficiaries, and stakeholders.
Monitor infrastructure projects throughout the project lifecycle. Conduct site visits
and inspections to assess project progress, quality, compliance, and performance.
Verify project milestones and deliverables against approved plans and contracts.
Identify project risks, delays, and implementation challenges and recommend
corrective actions. Monitor adherence to approved project schedules, budgets, and
quality standards. Assist in managing infrastructure-related contracts and service
level agreements. Monitor compliance with applicable legislation, policies,
standards, and funding conditions. Ensure adherence to procurement and contract
management requirements. Verify compliance with Occupational Health and
Safety requirements and applicable construction regulations. Maintain project
records and documentation for audit and governance purposes. Liaise with
beneficiaries, implementing agents, consultants, contractors, government
departments, and other stakeholders. Facilitate communication and coordination
between project stakeholders. Identify and assess project risks and recommend
mitigation measures. Monitor implementation of risk management plans. Support
internal and external audit processes relating to infrastructure projects. Upload all
documents related to projects onto the knowledge management system in
accordance with knowledge management policy and process. Manage and
maintain relationships with service providers of projects at a site level. Engage and
maintain good relationships with project payment officers regarding project
financials. Participate as an active member of the regional team in all relevant
structures of the NSF.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki (012) 943
3161
POST 22/61 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR - EVENTS MANAGEMENT (REF NO: NSF 21/07/2026)
(1 POST)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund – PR & COMMS
SALARY : R487 197 per annum. (Level 9)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/ national diploma (NQF level 6) in Public
Relations, Communication/ Marketing/ Hospitality Management/ Project
Management or related qualification. Public management and/or post-school
education and training experience will be advantageous. A valid driver’s license is
a requirement. A minimum of three (3) years relevant event management
experience with at least three (3) years’ work experience at a supervisory or
management role. Portfolio submitted demonstrating relevant experience. Process
competencies: Be professional, highly motivated, initiative and critical thinker who
will be able to gather and analyse information skilfully. Have excellent interpersonal
skills. Have excellent organizational and planning skills and ability to work on
multiple projects simultaneously. Have sense of urgency and ability to identify,
analyse and resolve problems in a timely manner. Be able to work independently
and as part of a team and also work well under pressure. Excellent telephone
etiquette. Have project management skills. Have effective oral and written
43
communication skills Good office management skills. Be able to handle
confidential matters and has integrity and is trustworthy. Knowledge: Good
understanding of protocol and security measures. Good computer knowledge.
Good knowledge of travel and subsistence procedures. Good understanding of
Public Service Regulatory Framework.
DUTIES : Planning NSF events from start to finish according to requirements, target
audience and objectives. The successful candidate will be responsible for the
development and maintenance of the NSF events calendar inclusive of own,
partner and industry events. Proactively make recommendations to enhance the
success of NSF events and/or participation in stakeholder events. Participate in
the budget planning processes and ensure adherence to approved budget and
budget items. Coordinate branding requirements for internal and external events.
Provide relevant specifications for events towards the sourcing of venues and
procurement of event management service providers. Manage sourced personnel
(professional MCs, audio-visual technicians, caterers and waiters etc.) including
setting up and strike down activities. Coordinate all event operations and
maintaining a stakeholder liaison role. Lead promotional activities for the event.
Identify event risks and implement mitigation measures and resolve any challenges
which may affect the successful delivery of events. Administer event feedback
surveys, analyse event successes and prepare reports. Extensive travel. The
position forms of the Directorate: Public Relations and Communication based in
Pretoria and involves extensive travel nationwide.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki
(012) 943 3161
POST 22/62 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORGANIZATIONAL PERFORMANCE AND
REPORTING (REF NO: NSF22/07/2026) (2 POST)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Organizational Performance And Reporting
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree / national diploma (NQF level 6) in Strategic
Management, Monitoring & Evaluation, Public Administration, Public Management,
Development Studies. A minimum of three (3) years’ relevant experience in
strategic planning, performance information management, monitoring & evaluation
or reporting within the public sector or a Schedule 3A Public Entity with at least
three (3) years’ work experience at a supervisory or management role. Working
knowledge of the DPME Revised Framework for Strategic Plans and Annual
Performance Plans, the National Treasury Framework for Managing Programme
Performance Information (FMPPI), the PFMA, the Public Service Regulations, the
AGSA Audit of Predetermined Objectives (AoPI) methodology, the Skills
Development Act and NSDP 2030. Strong analytical, report-writing, data-validation
and stakeholder-engagement skills. Computer literacy (MS Office, performance
information systems, BI/reporting tools). A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Support the development, consolidation and quality-assurance of the NSF
Strategic Plan, Annual Performance Plan (APP) and Operational Plan, in line with
the DPME Revised Framework. Coordinate the collection, validation and
verification of performance information from NSF programmes and business units.
Compile draft quarterly, mid-year and annual performance reports to the Executive
Authority, National Treasury, DPME and DHET. Maintain Technical Indicator
Descriptions (TIDs) and the Performance Information Management Framework.
Support AGSA Audit of Predetermined Objectives (AoPI) processes. Prepare audit
files, evidence portfolios and management responses. Identify under-performance
trends, raise findings with line management and track corrective actions.
Contribute inputs into the NSF Annual Report. Support implementation and
continuous improvement of the Performance Information System. Engage internal
and external stakeholders on performance data, reporting timelines and assurance
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki
(012) 943 3161
POST 22/63 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY -
MICROSOFT D365 SUPPORT (REF NO: NSF23/07/2026) (2 POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Information Communication Technology And Analytics
SALARY : R487 197per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/ national diploma (NQF Level 6) in information
technology, Computer Science. A minimum of 3-5 years of relevant experience in
44
ICT, with at least (3) to five (5) years of Microsoft D365 Application Support and
work experience at a supervisory role. Must have experience with all phases of
Microsoft D365 software development life cycle using a combination of Azure
DevOps and LCS. Experience with Microsoft Azure Platform (Azure Service Bus,
Logic App, PowerApps, Event Hub, Power Automate, etc.) will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of public sector ICT governance frameworks (e.g., DPSA,
CGICTPF, POPIA, ISO/IEC standards). Experience in IT project management and
user support, the incumbent will also be a person who works well under pressure,
pays attention to detail, works well within a team environment and has good
communication skills. Excellent technical knowledge of ICT systems, and security,
Strong leadership, communication, and stakeholder management skills. Analytical
thinking and problem- solving abilities.
DUTIES : The D365 Support Technician (Assistant Director Level) will oversee technical
support and operational readiness during the implementation of Microsoft
Dynamics 365. Act as a bridge between the technical team, business stakeholders,
and end-users, ensuring system stability, issue resolution, and successful rollout.
The Administrator will be responsible for analysis, configuration, and maintenance
of the Microsoft Dynamics D365. The ideal candidate should have knowledge of
D365 system, workflows, configuration (including UI / form development), security,
reporting / dashboards, any custom development, web portals, data integrations,
and any device integration. Knowledge of ICT legislation and policy frameworks in
the public service. Continue monitoring & fine-tuning performance for D365
instances. Assist the team to ensure compliance with IT policies and procedures.
Collaborate with developers, integrators, and business partners for system
enhancements/upgrades. A valid driver’s license. Coordinate ICT service delivery,
including user support, and system administration. Oversee the implementation
and maintenance of business systems and enterprise resource planning. Ensure
proper ICT governance, including risk management, business continuity, and
disaster recovery planning.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki
(012) 943 3161
POST 22/64 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FUND MANAGEMENT (REF NO: NSF 24/07/2026) (1
POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Fund Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/ national diploma (NQF level 6) in Financial
Management/ Accounting. A minimum of three (3) to five (5) years of work
experience in financial management, accounting, or auditing in the private or public
sector with at least three (3) years at a supervisory level. Further skills and
competency requirements related to strategic capability and leadership, budgeting,
and financial management, problem solving and analysis, Knowledge
management and technical proficiency, quality management, monitoring and
evaluation, negotiations and stakeholder engagement and communication
management, change management and people management and empowerment.
This is a financial management position that requires a dynamic hardworking
individual, who is service delivery oriented, customer-focused, maintains high
integrity and can perform in a team environment. Good knowledge of financial
frameworks and financial legislations and prescripts applicable to the public sector
will be an added advantage. Good computer skills. Candidate must be willing to
travel extensively across the country and work irregular hours with tight
timeframes. Knowledge: Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Skills
Development Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Public Service Regulations 2016
(PSR), Public Service Act (PSA), Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act,
Basic Condition of Employment Act (BCEA), National Treasury Regulation,
General Recognised Accounting Practice. Skill and competencies requirements
related to people management, project management, financial management,
planning and organising, computer literacy, writing skills, verbal communication,
attention to detail, preparing and delivering presentations, performing analysis, and
resolving problems, and quality management. A valid driver’s license and
willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Provide financial management support to NSF team project managers and skills
development providers for the portfolio of skills development projects funded by
NSF, Perform financial due diligence during the initiation of new skills development
projects; Perform financial monitoring of the portfolio of projects including
monitoring project expenditure against actual performance and approved budget;
Perform financial reporting for the portfolio of projects during the execution and
close-out thereof. Check and approve project payment drawdown requests;
Prepare relevant financial workbooks, and develop monthly, quarterly, annual, and
ad hoc financial reports; Provide the expenditure forecasting for a portfolio of
45
projects; Maintain a central filling system for all project financial documents for use
by the Auditor General of South Africa and internal audit; Participate as an active
member of the NSF financial team. Supervise a team of financial officers/clerks
responsible for project financial administration. Allocate and review work of junior
staff to ensure accuracy, completeness and adherence to deadlines. Provide on
the job training and mentoring junior staff on policies, systems and procedures.
Liaise with internal support units e.g. HR and supply chain on routine administrative
matters affecting the fund management unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki
(012) 943 3161
POST 22/65 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RESEARCH (REF NO: NSF25/07/2026) (1 POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Chief Directorate: Strategy, Innovation and Organizational Performance
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/ national diploma (NQF Level 6) in Economics,
Econometrics and/or Statistics. A minimum of three (3) to five (5) years’ collective
working experience within the Research field with three (3) years’ experience in a
supervisory position. Knowledge of the education system and pedagogy, Post
school education and training system, Government wide legislation, Legislative
Knowledge and Prescripts, e.g. Skills Development Act, Skills Development Levies
Act, Public Service Act, PFMA and National Treasury Regulations, General
knowledge of Public Service Regulations, NSF business strategies and goals, NSF
Services, NSF business processes and value chain, NSF policies, procedures and
regulations, Customer Service, NSF Values, NSF goals and performance
requirements. Must be be able to take accountability, practice service excellence,
be collaborative, have Integrity, passion, developmental, be objective, dedicated,
committed and willing to work irregular hours and do extensive travel. A valid
driver’s license. Skills: Applying Technology, Citizen Focus and Responsiveness,
Diversity Management, be able to have an impact and influence decisions, to
manage interpersonal conflict and resolving problems, be able to do networking
and build bonds, plan and organize with excellent problem solving and decision
making skills, shows concern for others with good self-management abilities, have
good quality management, be able to manage and exercise research and analysis
with technical proficiency.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to conduct socio-economic analysis and
research by analysing and evaluating the effectiveness and impact of the NSF’s
projects and programmes on beneficiaries and institutions. Undertake cost benefit
analysis to determine the value for money of the NSF’s programmes. Establish the
demand for scarce and critical skills across different sectors of the economy and
assess the supply of training programmes across the different types of institutions
and match them to NSF’s planned interventions. Estimate the contribution of the
NSF to the goals set out in the White Paper for Post School Education and Training
and keep abreast of developments in research on labour markets and the skills
system. Provide evidence and analysis to support the NSF’s strategic planning and
reporting processes by providing evidence and analysis to support the NSF’s
strategic planning processes. Draft reports on the NSF’s progress against its
targets and draft research reports for publication on the NSF website. Work with
the skills planning mechanism within the DHET to ensure strategic alignment.
Participate as an active member of the Directorate team by operating within
delegated authorizations, adhering at all times to the values of the NSF and
preparing monthly reports and making presentations as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els (012) 943 3250 / Ms B Setuki
(012) 943 3161
POST 22/66 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: INTERNAL AUDIT (REF NO: NSF 26/07/2026) (4
POSTS)
(24 Months Contract)
Branch: Skills Development Component: National Skills Fund Directorate: Internal
Audit
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree / national diploma (NQF Level 6) in internal
auditing or related qualification. Registration with a professional body, professional
qualification / designation such as Internal Audit Technician or Professional
Internal Auditor will be an added advantage. A minimum of three (3) years’
experience within the internal audit and/or external audit environment. Experience
in specialised audits such as Information Technology auditing and/or forensic
auditing will be an added advantage. Competencies: Sound knowledge of Global
46
Internal Audit Standards, Internal Audit Methodology, Risk Management principles,
National Treasury Internal Audit Framework, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) and Treasury Regulations, Public Service Regulations (PSR), Public
Service Act (PSA), Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act (BCEA), Occupational Health and Safety standards and
Generally Recognised Accounting Practice. Good knowledge of public service
mandates and strategies, and in particular the post school education and training
system, will be an added advantage. Project Management and ability to meet
deadlines. Good verbal and written communication skills, problem solving skills,
analytical skills and attention to detail. Good interpersonal skills, ability to interact
at all levels and ability to work in a team. Computer literacy, including experience
with Microsoft Office. Administration, planning and organising skills. Ability to work
under pressure. A valid driver’s license and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the Internal Audit Directorate, including
secretariat support to the Audit Committee, when assistance is required. Assist
with the planning, execution, and reporting of internal audits as per the approved
Internal Audit Plan and in accordance with the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA)
standards and best practice. Complete audit working papers of high quality in
accordance with the Internal Audit methodology of the NSF. Draft internal audit
findings. Assist with drafting of reports when required. Assist with follow up audits
on internal audit and/or external audits. Assist with queries of compliance or
performance put forward to the internal audit directorate and assist with performing
of compliance and performance audits where required. Compile an indexed and
audit file for each audit conducted, according to quality procedure and policy
requirements. Meet deadlines for submissions. Review current audit systems and
processes to recommend improvements to enhance effectiveness. Flag audit risks
and breakdowns in the internal control environment. Contribute to raising
awareness of the internal audit directorate by engaging with stakeholders. Compile
regular time sheets. Supervise Interns. Provide secretariat services during the
audits such as recording, compilation and distribution of minutes of meetings,
where required. Keep abreast with global trends and best practice. Adhere at all
times to the values of the National Skills Fund. Operate within the policies,
procedures and rules of the National Skills Fund.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: 012 943 3105/ Ms C Els 012 943 3250/ Ms B Setuki 012 943
3161
47
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) seeks to hire patriotic, professional, passionate and talented
individuals to form part of a new leadership team, equipped with the right skills to facilitate the
transformation of Home Affairs into a digital-first, world-class organisation. If you are committed to
delivering on the Medium-Term Development Plan’s priorities through digital transformation, ascribe to the
Department’s shared value set, have what it takes to deliver on the needs of DHA Clients with the highest
levels of dignity, integrity and innovation, and your credentials meet the requirements of any of the following
positions, kindly respond before the closing date.
APPLICATION : Applications must be submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent to
the correct address specified at the bottom of the posts, on or before the closing
date
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026
NOTE : The DHA is a merit-based, equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. In
line with its commitment to promoting representivity, in the filling of entry-level
positions preference may be given to locally based candidates on grounds of
affordability as well as to (unemployed) youth and the DHA’s interns and learners
who have successfully completed their respective skills development programmes.
In the filling of all posts, preference may be afforded to persons with disabilities,
and in respect of SMS-level posts, to women. Persons falling in these categories
and who meet the post requirements are preferred. The DHA complies with the
Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4 of 2013). Applicants’
personal information will be used for recruitment purposes, retained where
required for audit, and safeguarded against unauthorised disclosure, except where
legally required. Submission of an application constitutes consent to such
processing. accompanied by a fully completed Application for Employment Form
(New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at www.dpsa.gov.za, citing
the correct post number and job title, and a comprehensive CV (citing the start and
end date dd/mm/yy), job title, duties performed and exit reason for each
employment period to be considered, as well as the details of at least two
contactable employment references (as recent as possible), regardless of online
or manual submission. Where a valid Driver's License and a Professional Driving
Permit (PDP) is a requirement, this must be indicated on the CV. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will
be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Shortlisted candidates will also be required to submit a copy
of their ID document, a valid driver’s license (if specified as a job requirement),
relevant educational qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic Transcripts of
completed qualifications, and Acting letters as directed. Furthermore, applicants
who possess (a) foreign qualification(s), are required to submit the evaluated
results of such qualifications, as received from the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA); will be subjected to an interview, various relevant tests and
assessments, and employment suitability checks (credit, criminal, citizenship,
qualifications, and employment references including verification of exit reasons,
and conducting business with State). Once appointed, serving of a prescribed
probation period, and obtaining of a security clearance appropriate to the post, will
be required. Correspondence between the Department and candidates will be
limited to shortlisted candidates, only.
ERRATUM:: Kindly note that the following posts that were advertised in the Public
Service Vacancy Circular Number 21, dated 19 June 2026, have been withdrawn:
Deputy Director: Provincial Coordination/Provincial Manager’s Office: Easten Cape
Ref No: HRMC 38/26/2a (X1 Post)/Provincial Manager’s Office: Free State Ref No:
HRMC 38/26/2b (X1 Post)/Provincial Manager’s Office: Kwa-Zulu Natal Ref No:
HRMC 38/26/2c (X1 Post)/Provincial Manager’s Office: Limpopo Ref No: HRMC
38/26/2d (X1 Post)/Provincial Manager’s Office: Mpumalanga Ref No: HRMC
38/26/2e (X1 Post) /We apologise for the inconvenience caused.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/67 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IMMIGRATION SERVICES INSPECTORATE, (6
POSITIONS)
SALARY : R605 742 - R713 535 per annum (Level 10). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: Large Office: Mthatha Ref No: HRMC 41/26/1a (1 Post)
Free State: Large Office: Phuthatditjhaba Ref No: HRMC 41/26/1b (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Large Office: Ermelo Ref No: HRMC 41/26/1c (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Large Office: Kimberley Ref No: HRMC 41/26/1d (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Large Office: Upington Ref No: HRMC 41/26/1e (1 Post)
Western Cape: Large Office: Large office Khayelitsha Ref No: HRMC 41/26/1f (1
Post)
48
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law, Public Management, Public Administration,
LLB, Policing, Criminology, Forensics, Paralegal, Criminal Justice at NQF level 6
as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ supervisory experience in a law
enforcement, Legal or Security environment is required. Knowledge of the Public
Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of Refugee Act and Immigration Act.
Knowledge and understanding of all Acts administered by the Department.
Knowledge and understanding of Criminal Prosecution Act. Knowledge of
International treaties. Knowledge of the South African Constitution. Knowledge of
Human Resource Regulatory Framework. A valid driver’s license (Code B/C1/C/
EC1). Valid Public Driver Permit (PDP). Willingness to travel outside the borders
and work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Liaison and
interpersonal skills. Problem Solving Skills. Customer orientation. Planning and
organising. Strong Analytical Skills. Written and verbal communication. Diplomacy.
Accountability. Conflict management and resolution. Analytical skills.
Communication Skills. Computer Literacy. Patriotism, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage Inspectorate operations management within the
Office/district. Provide advice and recommendation on immigration transgression
cases to the office/region/district. Represent the department on security cluster
forums. Ensure effective investigations of transgressions of the DHA legislation.
Review quality management (investigation)reports and take corrective action
where required and provide necessary support and leadership to immigration
officials under his/her chain of command. Develop quality assurance and data
quality strategies and actions. Monitor statistics of inspections/investigations within
the office/district/Region. Analyse trends and communicate the information to the
Office Manager. Advise the office manager, District Manager Operations and
Provincial Manager on immigration matters. Liaise with Central law enforcement
regarding priority and high-profile cases, Liaise and provide support to Counter
Corruption on cases that involve their mandate and immigration matters. Liaise
with law enforcement agencies and other relevant stakeholders to ensure smooth
and effective processing of cases identified in the Region Assistant Director:
Immigration Services Inspectorate Page 3 of 8. Liaise with deportation unit to effect
deportations and oversee the effective, humane and speedy deportation of cases
from the office/district/region. Coordinate information and assist with regards to the
investigation of issuing of temporary residence permits/permanent residence
permits. Oversee Court cases involving the office/district/region. Provide effective
oversight and management of Immigration functions within the office/district/region
and provide investigative support to Civic services. Develop and implementation of
policies, procedures, directives, acts and regulations. Ensure effective risk and
compliance management. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best
practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr L Jama, Tel No: (043) 642 1846
Free State: Ms V Molefe, Tel No: (051) 430 0378
Mpumalanga: Ms N Dlangisa, Tel No: (013) 752 2504
Northern Cape: Mr W Masilonyana, Tel No: (053) 807 6725
Western Cape: Mr M Pienaar, Tel (021) 488 1409
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct address
specified as follows: -
Eastern Cape: Physical address: 11 Hargreaves Avenue, King William’s Town,
5600
Free State: Physical Address: 41 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein 9301
Mpumalanga: Physical Address: 29 Bester Street, Nelspruit, 1200
Northern Cape: Physical Address: Quantum Leap Building, 69 Du Toitspan Road,
Kimberley, 8300
Western Cape: Physical Address: 4th Floor Fair Cape Building, 56 Barrack Street,
Cape Town, 8000
POST 22/68 : CONTROL IMMIGRATION OFFICER: INSPECTORATE, (24 POSITIONS)
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 8) (A basic salary package)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: Large Office: Mthatha Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2a (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Mount Frere Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2b (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Aliwal North Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2c (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Mdantsane Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2d (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Graaff Reinet Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2e (1 Post)
Free State: Large Office: Bloemfontein Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2f (1 Post)
Free State: Medium Office: Bethlehem Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2g (1 Post)
Free State: Medium Office: Kroonstad Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2h (1 Post)
Limpopo: Medium Office: Nebo Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2i (1 Post)
Limpopo: Medium Office: Modjadjiskloof Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2j (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Large Office: Nelspruit Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2k (1 Post)
49
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Malelane Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2l (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Barberton Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2m (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: White River (Nsikazi) Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2n (1
Post)
Mpumalanga: Large Office: Ermelo Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2o (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Large Office: Kimberley Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2p (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Large Office: Kuruman Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2q (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Large Office: Upington Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2r (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Medium Office: Calvinia Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2s (1 Post)
Western Cape : Medium Office: Somerset West Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2t (1 Post)
Western Cape : Large Office: Paarl Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2u (1 Post)
Western Cape : Medium Office: Mitchell’s Plain Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2v (1 Post)
Western Cape : Medium Office: Oudtshoorn Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2w (1 Post)
Western Cape : Large Office: George Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2x (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Law, Public Management, Public Administration, Policing,
Criminology, Forensics or Criminal Justice at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA.
2 Years’ experience in a law enforcement environment. Knowledge of the
Immigration Act, Refugees Act, Criminal Procedure Act, and relevant Regulations.
Knowledge of International treaties. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant
public service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government
Structures. A valid drivers’ license (Code C1) or C (Code 10). Valid Public Driver
Permit (PDP). Willingness to travel including outside of the borders of South Africa.
Work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Service delivery.
Innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. Excellent interpersonal skills.
Problem solving and conflict management. Analytical skills. Planning, organising
and time management. Good written and verbal communication skills. Report
writing. Computer literacy. Patriotic, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Provide effective law enforcement, and monitoring of the
investigation of illegal foreigners according to the Immigration Act No 13 of 2002.
Supervise, administrate and enforce the detection, tracing, arrest and detention of
illegal foreigners within the Country. Ensure effective investigation of cases
involving smuggling of migrants, human trafficking and illegal mass production of
enabling documents such as birth certificates, travel documents, permits, Visas,
Identity documents and theft of face value documents. Assist in dealing with illegal
migration facilitated by corruption, and other high-profile cases. Appear and testify
in court proceedings (both criminal and civil), as well as disciplinary enquiries on
behalf of the Department. Monitor the process of the deportation of illegal
foreigners out of the Country to their country of origin. Administrate and implement
inspections in loco. Assist in the promotion of a climate in the Country that
discourages illegal migration and ensures that illegal foreigners depart the Country
either through deportation or voluntarily, in line with applicable Acts and
Regulations. Monitor the influx of foreigners residing in the Country and ensure
that they have legal documentation. Timeously liaise with all law enforcement
agencies and other relevant institutions on the verification of the identity of
foreigners who contravene the provisions of applicable Legislation. Administrate
the arrest and deportation of illegal foreigners who are unwilling to leave the
Country voluntarily, in a lawful manner. Assist in crime combatting operations with
other law enforcement agencies. Participate in security cluster forums and case
flow management meetings. Prepare reports and statistics as directed. Operate,
maintain and safeguard the assigned heavy-duty vehicle as well as designated
tools of trade, in accordance with relevant Departmental policy frameworks. Ensure
the implementation of Departmental policies and procedures. Maintain
relationships with various stakeholders (Internal and External). Ensure effective
and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources within the
Unit. Coach and guide staff on compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr L Jama, Tel No: (043) 642 1846
Free State: Ms V Molefe, Tel No: (051) 430 0378
Limpopo: Mr J Kgole, Tel No: (015) 287 2802
Mpumalanga: Ms N Dlangisa, Tel No: (013) 752 2504
Northern Cape: Mr W Masilonyana, Tel No: (053) 807 6725
Western Cape: Mr M Pienaar, Tel (021) 488 1409
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct address
specified as follows: -
Eastern Cape: Physical address: 11 Hargreaves Avenue, King William’s Town,
5600
Free State: Physical Address: 41 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein 9301
Limpopo: Physical Address: 89 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699
Mpumalanga: Physical Address: 29 Bester Street, Nelspruit, 1200
Northern Capel: Physical Address: Quantum Leap Building, 69 Du Toitspan
Road, Kimberley, 8300
Western Cape: Physical Address: 4th Floor Fair Cape Building, 56 Barrack Street,
Cape Town, 8000
50
POST 22/69 : IMMIGRATION OFFICER: INSPECTORATE (106 POSITIONS)
SALARY : R280 278 - R330 162 per annum (Level 6). (A basic salary)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Butterworth Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3a (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Idutywa Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3b (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Peddie Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3c (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Mdantsane Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3d (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Graaff Reinet Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3e (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Grahamstown Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3f (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Motherwell Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3g (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Cofimvaba Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3h (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Aliwal North Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3i (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Engcobo Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3j (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Mqanduli Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3k (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Libode Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3l (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Bizana Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3m (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Matatiele Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3n (2 Posts)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Mount Fletcher Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3o(1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Sterkspruit Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3p (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Large Office: Mthatha Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3q (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Medium Office: Qumbu Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3r (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Large Office: East London Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3s (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Large Office: Gqeberha Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3t (2 Posts)
Free State: Medium Office: Botshabelo Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3t (3 Posts)
Free State: Medium Office: Thaba Nchu Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3u (2 Posts)
Free State: Medium Office: Zastron Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3v (1 Post)
Free State: Large Office: Koffiefontein Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3w (1 Post)
Free State: Large Office: Welkom Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3x (3 Posts)
Free State: Medium Office: Bultfontein Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3y (1 Post)
Free State: Large Office: Phuthatditjhaba Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3z (6 Posts)
Free State: Large Office: Bloemfontein Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aa
Free State: Medium Office: Harrismith Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3ab (1 Post)
Limpopo: Medium Office: Nebo Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3ad (1 Post)
Limpopo: Medium Office: Modjadjiskloof REF NO: HRMC 41/26/3ae
Mpumalanga: Large Office: Nelspruit Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3af (4 Posts)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Barberton Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3ag (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Hazyview Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3ah (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Mashishing (Lydenburg) Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3ai
(3 Posts)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Nkomazi Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aj (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: White River (Nsikazi) Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3ak (3
Posts)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Maphulaneng Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3al (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Belfast Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3am (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Delmas Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3an (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Middlelburg Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3ao (2 Posts)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Mkobolo Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3ap (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Large Office: Ermelo Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aq (2 Posts)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Piet Retief Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3ar (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Secunda Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aps (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Volksrust Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3at (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Eerstehoek Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3au (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Standerton Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3av (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Malelane Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aw (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Large Office: Kimberley Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3ax (5 Posts)
Northern Cape: Medium Office: Pampierstad Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3ay (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Medium Office: Jan Kemdorp Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2az (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Medium Office: De Aar Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2aaa (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Medium Office: Prieska Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2aab (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Large Office: Kuruman Ref No: HRMC 41/26/2aac (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Large Office: Upington Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aad (2 Posts)
Northern Cape: Medium Office: Postmasburg Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aah (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Medium Office: Calvinia Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aac (1 Post)
Western Cape : Large Office: George Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aad (2 Posts)
Western Cape : Medium Office: Knysna Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aah (2 Posts)
Western Cape : Medium Office: Mossel Bay Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aai (2 Posta)
Western Cape : Medium Office: Beaufort West Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aaj (1 Post)
Western Cape : Large Office: Paarl Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aak (1 Post)
Western Cape : Medium Office: Stellenbosch Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aal (1 Post)
Western Cape : Medium Office: Somerset West Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aam (2
Posts)
Western Cape : Medium Office: Malmesbury Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aan (1 Post)
Western Cape : Large Office: Khayelitsha Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aao (1 Post)
51
Western Cape : Medium Office: Bellville Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aap (1 Post)
Western Cape : Large Office: Cape Town Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aaq (1 Post)
Western Cape : Medium Office: Caledon Ref No: HRMC 41/26/3aar (3 Posts)
Western Cape: Medium Office: Vredendal REF NO: HRMC 41/26/3aas (2 Posts)
: Western Cape: Medium Office: Wynberg REF NO: HRMC 41/26/3aat (2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law, Public Management, Public Administration,
Policing Criminology, Forensics or Criminal Justice at NQF level 6 as recognised
by SAQA is required. Basic understanding of the Refugees Act and Immigration
Act. Basic understanding of South African Constitution. Basic understanding the
Immigration Act. Basic understanding Public Service Regulatory Framework. A
valid driver’s license (Code B/C1/C/ EC1). Valid Public Driver Permit (PDP).
Willingness to travel outside the borders and work extended hours Required skills
and competencies: Liaison and interpersonal skills. Problem Solving Skills.
Customer orientation. Planning and organising. Strong Analytical Skills. Computer
Literacy. Written and verbal communication. Diplomacy. Patriotic, Honesty and
Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Effective enforcement of the Immigration Act 13 of 2002 as
amended and other Legislation. Detect, trace, detain and prosecute illegal
foreigners within the country. Process the deportation of illegal foreigners out of
the country to their country of origin. Provide support on law enforcement
investigations and anti-corruption cases. Conduct inspections in loco with or
without warrant as allowed by law. Conduct investigations on any transgressions
of the Immigration Act, 2002, the Refugee Act, 1998 or other departmental
legislation. Enable prosecutions of transgressions of departmental legislation and
the Criminal Procedure Act. Issue notices to appear in front of the Director–General
to transgressors. Process and present evidence in court and Departmental cases.
Issue admission of guilt to fines to transgressors. Conduct interviews and
investigation of foreigners who are suspected to be illegal in the transgressors.
Process the application and the extensions of detention warrants. Monitor the
records of all cases. Monitor the influx of foreigners residing in the country with no
legal documentation. Implement incidental matters ensure that the identity of illegal
foreigner who are arrested, detained or convicted. Conduct arrests and deporting
of illegal foreigners who are unwilling to leave the country voluntarily. Participate in
training session that will enable advanced knowledge and understanding in
detecting illegal; foreigners in line with Immigration Act.No13 of 2002 as amended
and enforcing departmental legislation. Ensure compliance with the terms and
conditions of permits. Participate in the processing of illegal foreigners for
deportation to their country of origin. Participate in law enforcement operations with
other security cluster agencies. Provide expert evidence and statement to support
law enforcement and crime combatting investigation efforts that require
departmental evidence. Participate in regular training and personal development
to be able to undertake the tasks as an effective law enforcement peace office.
Conduct deportation processes and keep records of foreigners (legal and illegal)
in the country. Safe keep, maintain and manage state properties and assets.
Implement policies and procedures in line with the approved Framework. Monitor
individual resources (Physical).
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr L Jama, Tel No: (043) 642 1846
Free State: Ms V Molefe, Tel No: (051) 430 0378
Limpopo: Mr J Kgole, Tel No: (015) 287 2802
Mpumalanga: Ms N Dlangisa, Tel No: (013) 752 2504
Northern Cape: Mr W Masilonyana, Tel No: (053) 807 6725
Western Cape: Mr M Pienaar, Tel (021) 488 1409
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct address
specified as follows:-
Eastern Cape: Physical address: 11 Hargreaves Avenue, King William’s Town,
5600
Free State: Physical Address: 41 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein 9301
Limpopo: Physical Address: 89 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699
Mpumalanga: Physical Address: 29 Bester Street, Nelspruit, 1200
Northern Cape: Physical Address: Quantum Leap Building, 69 Du Toitspan Road,
Kimberley, 8300
Western Cape: Physical Address: 4th Floor Fair Cape Building, 56 Barrack Street,
Cape Town, 8000
POST 22/70 : HOSPITAL CLERK, (20 POSITIONS)
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 5). (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: Large Office: Gqeberha Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4a (1 Post)
Eastern Cape: Large Office: Lusikisiki Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4b (1 Post)
Free State: Medium Office: Bloemfontein Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4c (2 Posts)
Gauteng: Coronation Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4d (1 Post)
Gauteng: Temba Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4e (1 Post)
52
Gauteng: Medium Office: Brakpan Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4f (1 Post)
Kwa-Zulu Natal: Dundee Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4g (1 Post)
Kwa-Zulu Natal: Prospecton Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4h (1 Post)
Limpopo: WF Knobel Hospital Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4i (1 Post)
Limpopo: Louis Trichard Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4j (1 Post)
Limpopo: Medium Office: Bochum Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4k (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Embuleni Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4l (1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Volksrust Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4m (1 Post)
North West: Taung Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4n (1 Post)
North West: Itsoseng Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4o (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Upington Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4p (1 Post)
Northern Cape: Jan Kempdorp Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4q (1 Post)
Western Cape: Medium Office: Wynberg Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4r (1 Post)
Western Cape: Medium Office: Cares Ref No: HRMC 41/26/4s (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 as recognised by SAQA. An NQF Level 5 qualification as recognised by
SAQA, and / or DHA Qualification: Home Affairs Services (NQF level 5).
Understanding of all departmental legislation and prescripts. Basic Knowledge of
the Public Service Regulatory Framework. Basic knowledge of Batho Pele
Principles. Adhere to Standards Operating Procedures for registration of birth and
death. A valid drivers’ license. Required skills and competencies: Planning and
Organising. Attention to detail. Communication skills. Analytical skills. Problem
solving skills. Financial administration. Clerical and administration. Multitask.
Teamwork. Record and time management. Professionalism. Proven Client Focus
and Orientation. Computer Literacy. Patriotism, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Render birth registration services to clients. Receive notice of birth
and relevant supporting documents. Complete DHA 24. Perform online verification
of informant or take full set of fingerprints when online verifications are not
available. Capture application on the National Population Register. Submit
application for quality assurance to supervisor. Confirm informant’s details. Print
birth certificate. Sign and issue birth certificate as delegated. The informant signs
the register to acknowledge receipt of the birth certificate. Record and maintain a
birth occurrence vs. registered births register. Record and register of foreign birth
occurrences register. Provide death registration services to clients. Ensure good
governance, risk and compliance. Ensure effective and efficient management of
human, physical and financial resources within the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Mr L Jama, Tel No: (043) 604 6417
Free State: Ms V Molefe, Tel No: (051) 430 0378
Gauteng: Mr P Mlangeni, Tel No: (011) 242 9039
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema, Tel No: (033) 845 5003
Limpopo: Mr J Kgole, Tel No: (015) 287 2802
Mpumalanga: Ms N Dlangisa, Tel No: (013) 752 2504
Northern Cape: Mr W Masilonyana, Tel No: (053) 807 6725
North West: Mr L Appels, Tel No: (018) 397 9908 / 9924 / 9922 / 9915
Western Cape: Mr M Pienaar, Tel (021) 488 1409
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct address
specified as follows:-
Eastern Cape: Physical address: 11 Hargreaves Avenue, King William’s Town,
5600
Free State: Physical Address: 41 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein 9301
Gauteng: Physical Address: 3rd Floor, Mineralia Building, Cnr De Beer and De
Korte Street, Braamfontein, 2017
KwaZulu-Natal: Physical address: 181 Church Street, Pietermaritzburg 3209
Limpopo: Physical Address: 89 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699
Mpumalanga: Physical Address: 29 Bester Street, Nelspruit, 1200
North West: Physical Address: Cnr Sheppard and Carrington Street, Mafikeng,
2745
Northern Cape: Physical Address: Quantum Leap Building, 69 Du Toitspan Road,
Kimberley, 8300
Western Cape: Physical Address: 4th Floor Fair Cape Building, 56 Barrack Street,
Cape Town, 8000
53
ANNEXURE I
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives
of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity imperatives as defined
by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human Resources policies of the
Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to Women, Persons with Disabilities
and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice, Private
Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office of the Chief
Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road, Noordwyk, Midrand,
1685.
Supreme Court of Appeal: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X20612, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver applications to the Free State High
Court, Corner President Brand and Fontein Street, Bloemfontein, 9301
Gauteng/ Provincial Service Centre/Randburg: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand delivered to
the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be downloaded
on internet at www.judiciary.org.za / www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or
obtainable from any Public Service Department and should be accompanied by a
recent comprehensive CV only; contactable referees (telephone numbers and
email addresses must be indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and
put them in one folder. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must
be a practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an additional
criterion in the interview process. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be
subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department.
Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA
SMS competency assessment tools. Applicants could be required to provide
consent for access to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment for SMS, a
candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry
Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an
online course, endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course
is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each application form must be fully completed,
duly signed and initialed on both pages by the applicant. The application must
indicate the correct job title, the office where the position is advertised and the
reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign
and initial the application form will lead to disqualification of the application during
the selection process. Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be
considered. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be
accompanied by an evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected
to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification
verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The Department reserves
the right not to make any appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Applicants who
do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications
received late, will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents
will result in the application not being considered during the selection process. All
successful candidates will be expected to enter into an employment contract and
a performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required
to undergo a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the
Chief Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided to
us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose of the
position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application was
unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal information
for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the information requested
now or during the process is required for recruitment purposes. Failure to provide
54
requested information will render your application null and void. The Office of the
Chief Justice will safeguard the security and confidentiality of all information you
shared during the recruitment process.
ERRATUM: Kindly take note that the post of Pool Judge’s Secretary: Gauteng
Division of the High Court: Johannesburg (12 Months contract), Ref No
2026/52/0CJ advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 21 dated 19 June
2026 has been withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/71 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SKILLS DEVELOPMENT FACILITATOR, REF NO:
2026/61/OCJ
SALARY : R487 197 – R584 370.per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Human Resource
Management/ Human Resource Development/ Training and Development or
equivalent qualification at NQF Level 6 with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA.
A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in Skills Development and Training
coordination, of which one (01) year should be at a supervisory level. A valid
driver’s license, Skills Development Facilitator certificate and Train the Trainer
certificate will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements Knowledge and skills: Good interpretation and knowledge of the
National Skills Development Strategy, Public Finance Management Act, Skills
Development Act, Skills Development Levy Act, Public Service Regulations,
knowledge of the compulsory training programmes in the Public Service and
training on various programme, knowledge of PERSAL system, planning,
coordination, organising, analytical and people management skills, sound verbal
and written Communication skills, presentation skills, high sense of responsibility
and accountability, interpersonal, time management skills, attention to details,
experience in managing long term training programmes (Learnership, Internship,
Workplace Integrated Learning), experience in developing and submitting
Workplace Skills Plan and various SETA’s reports, project management skills and
ability to coordinate, manage and closeup training and development projects,
computer literacy in the Microsoft package i.e Word, Excel, PowerPoint, ability to
work under pressure and independently and or as part of a team.
DUTIES : Implement the Human Resource Development strategies, conduct skills audit and
training need analysis, develop Workplace Skills Plan (WSP) and Annual Training
Report (ATR), participate in skills development planning and identify critical and
scarce skills within the department, provide inputs to the Departmental Human
Resource Plan and other skills development plan initiatives, implement Human
Resource Management projects, coordination and facilitation of Orientation and
Induction programmes, promote Career Development and Talent Management.
Stakeholder Liaison and Coordination, coordinate and provide secretariat and
technical advice to the Skills Development Committee (SDC), manage Skills
Development Compliance, conduct pre and post training evaluations and measure
training effectiveness and impact, coordinate Learning and Development
Programmes including facilitation and implementation of mandatory training,
bursaries, internships, learnerships, and leadership development programmes,
manage the training records, compile governance reports and ensure training and
empowerment of subordinates. Manage performance of the subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms K Tshoke Tel No: (010) 493 2535
HR Related Enquiries: Mr K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2527
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/61/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the Employment
Equity goals
POST 22/72 : REGISTRAR REF NO: 2026/62/OCJ
(12 Month Contract)
SALARY : R337 563 - R1 155 777.per annum (MR3-MR5) + 37% in lieu of benefits, Salary
will be in accordance with Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of
2008). Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit a service certificate/s for
determination of their experience. The successful candidate will be required to sign
a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Supreme Court Of Appeal, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB degree or equivalent qualification
plus a minimum of two (2) years post qualification experience in a legal profession
(certificates of service must accompany the application). MR4: LLB degree or
equivalent qualification plus a minimum of 8 years post qualification experience in
a legal profession (certificates of service must accompany the application). MR5:
55
LLB degree or equivalent qualification plus a minimum of 14 years post
qualification experience in a legal profession (certificates of service must
accompany the application). A valid driver’s license, Superior Court or litigation
experience and supervisory experience will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of Case
Flow Management. knowledge of the legislative frameworks governing the public
service, excellent communication skills (verbal and written), planning and
organising skills, problem solving skills, numerical skills, attention to details,
professionalism, strong work ethics, conflict management skills, time management
and ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Coordination of Case Flow Management and administrative support to the
judiciary, comply with Court rules and all relevant prescripts, handling taxation of
bills of cost, manage the issuing of all processes and initiating of Court
proceedings, coordinate appeals and reviews, attend to and execute requests from
the judiciary in connection with cases and case related matters, issue/sign Court
orders/letters to attorneys/litigants on behalf of the Court, Keep/check and analyse
the Court’s monthly, quarterly and annual statistics and monitor the submission
thereof. Implement effective and efficient administration of court files and records
management, deal with the files in terms of the relevant codes and legislation,
prepare and present files for audit purposes, ensure the submission of records for
translation. attend/oversee to general public queries/correspondences, attend to
office management, planning and organizing, manage staff and related HR
processes.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr. V.Z.J Zwane Tel No: (051) 492 4623
HR Related Enquiries: Ms D.S.J Peters Tel No: (051) 492 4523
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/62/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment Equity
goals.
POST 22/73 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK, REF NO:2026/63/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708.per annum (Level 5). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Service Centre Gauteng
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade twelve (12) Certificate. No
experience is required. A three (3) year National Diploma/Degree in Human
Resource Management or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by
SAQA and PERSAL introduction certificate will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of PERSAL
system, knowledge and understanding of the legislative frameworks governing the
Public Service, knowledge of Public Service Act, knowledge of Public Service
Regulations 2016 as amended, knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in
terms of working environment, Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles,
communication skills (verbal and written), administration skills, planning and
organising skills, computer skills, time management skills, basic numeracy skills,
interpersonal relations, typing skills, customer services orientation, self-
management, creative thinking and teamwork.
DUTIES : Facilitate administration of recruitment, selection and appointment processes with
the province, identify funded vacant posts, facilitate the request to advertise form,
liaise with line managers regarding recruitment activities, coordinate the receiving
and sorting of applications, provide support with conducting of shortlisting and
interviews, capture fingerprints, provide administrative support service, provide
logistical arrangements to meetings, provide secretariat support services to the
meetings, compile minutes and memos, handle incoming and outgoing office
correspondence, ensure a proper filling system for all the records, compile
statistics on all matters relating to Conditions of Service and benefits, provide
support to Conditions of Services, capture leave, update leave register, receive
appointment and service termination documents, process the resettlement
allowance payment on PERSAL, process the injury on duty (IOD) information on
compensation fund website, capture appointments and service terminations on
PERSAL, provide leave credits to OCJ officials on request, provide administrative
support for PMDS, receive and quality assure performance agreements and
probation reports, capture performance agreements and probation report on the
database, provide support with the Performance Management workshops and
awareness of the PMDS system, capture PMDS transactions and training
transactions on PERSAL, update and file PMDS records, provide support to HR
records management, update HR record management database, ensure recording
of all memos received, keep track of safe files and records and quality assures a
proper filling system for all the records.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
56
HR Related Enquiries: Ms F Lukhele Tel No: (010) 494 8541
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/63/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the Employment
Equity goals.
POST 22/74 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK, REF NO:2026/64/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708.per annum (Level 5). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Land Court: Randburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade twelve (12) Certificate. No
experience is required. A valid driver’s license will serve as added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment, knowledge of registry processes
and practice, knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment, knowledge and understanding of legislative frameworks governing
the Public Service, knowledge of filling system, mail procedure manual, Promotion
of access to Information Act and National archives, Batho Pele Principles,
computer literacy skills (Microsoft Office), communication skills, numeracy skills,
interpersonal skills, problem solving and analysis skills, time management skills,
administrative skills, ability to work under pressure, self-motivated, accuracy, ability
to work independently, attention to detail, teamwork and flexible.
DUTIES : Register/ allocate case numbers to all pleadings and Court documents received,
ensure that the files have been served to all parties concerned, draw up files for
the litigants/Attorney, update the file of return service/s proof services, safe-keep
and dispose of case records, retrieve the requested file and make the file available
to the requester, attend to queries from parties and members of the public, record
documents received, ensure systematically recording of Court files, Keep record
of requests received from litigants, attend to case management and set down
notice, implement case management practices (placing request forms in the space
of a file that has been requested, complete and file the movement sheet), render
case management duties, monitor files and records as per the case Management,
submit leave forms to HR for compliance, maintain and keep all registers for filing
and archiving, comply with the telephone prescripts and leave policies, prepare
and sign performance agreement timeously.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms N Mhlambi Tel No: (010) 493 6316
HR Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/64/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the Employment
Equity goals.
POST 22/75 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (DCRS), REF NO:2026/65/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708.per annum (Level 5). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Land Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade twelve (12) Certificate. No
experience is required. A valid driver’s license, appropriate experience in general
administration or Court related functions will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of the digital
recording process e.g. system tests, recording equipment is properly functional,
fault reports, knowledge of Court proceedings, knowledge of digital filing system,
knowledge of manual filing system, technical skills, communication (written and
verbal), interpersonal relations, typing, computer literacy (MS Office), planning and
organising skills, administration skills, ability to work under pressure, ensure
correctness of annotations, team participation, understanding of confidentiality in
Government, flexible and ability to pay attention to details.
DUTIES : Check the readiness of the Court prior the Court proceedings, test the CRT
machine (Circuit Court and local Court) and reports all faults detected on the
machine, capture cases set down on the CRT machine and the court book/J406,
pre schedule the cases prior to commencement of the Court proceedings, record
Court proceedings as per the level of Court, add parties’ details per Court
appearance and add related annotations for the case type in session, pause and
resume the recorder during Court session breaks, and stop at the end of the day,
set up and operate the equipment for testifying in the Children’s Court, annotate all
the postponed cases, conduct regular backups of data and transfer Court
recordings at the end of the week, utilise the headphones to monitor accurate
recording of the Court proceedings, attend to request for playback to verify Court
orders and download to CD/USB, retrieve and download cases on request,
playback the Court recoding to detect any discrepancies on the recordings, Inform
57
the Judge immediately when discrepancies are detected, file and check audio CD’s
in the strong room/Court Recording Technology office, submit work performed at
the circuit Court immediately upon arrival, update backups of audio CD’s.
Download CD’s for transcription for the running record, attend to queries relating
to Court recordings and arrange own travelling to circuit Courts in advance.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms N Mhlambi Tel No: (010) 493 6316
HR Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/65/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the Employment
Equity goals.
POST 22/76 : USHER MESSENGER SUPERVISOR, REF NO:2026/66/OCJ
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously applied are encouraged to apply.
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708.per annum (Level 5). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division High Court, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate. A minimum of two (2)
years’ experience as an Usher Messenger. A valid driver’s license will serve as
advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise
as part of the. assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based
on the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge of relevant legislations, planning and organising skills, supervisory
skills, communication skills, good interpersonal skills, decision making skills,
listening skills, computer skills, attention to detail and ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Allocate Usher messengers to the Judiciary for provision in the Court room and for
the Judge’ Chambers, draft the final Court roll per day for all civil trials & opposed
matters, appeals & criminal matters, including postponed matters, provide
administration support functions to the Judges and staff in the unit, ensure Usher
messengers follow security and confidentiality procedures when handling official
documents, compile monthly statistics to evaluate productivity of Usher
messengers, conduct in-house training of officials, coordinate tasks allocated to
assist the office of the Judge President and Deputy Judge President, facilitate
collection and delivery of post to and from the post office, coordinate and distribute
Court rolls on the notice boards to the relevant judiciary, provide support with the
scheduling of Court matters, negotiate the Court rooms allocation with Judges in
times of shortages, allocate Court rooms based upon the type of case, needs of
the case and the Judicial Office, ensure that the relevant signs are placed relating
to accused person seating arrangements in criminal matters, determine the needs
from Judges relating to Court rooms, ensure IT is informed of MS Teams or Court
online cases set up requirements for specific Courts, provide support with re-
arrangement of Court rooms for special functions such as memorials, provide
support to legal practitioners with oversees exhibits for use in courtroom, attend to
media outlet set up in Courts once approved by the Judge/Court Manager,
distribute the files between Judges & the administration offices, collect motion files
from the typist to the Judges and deliver to the usher/ Court and Judges chambers,
sort, check and monitor safekeeping of the Court files, circulate Court rolls
according to the distribution list, ensure that files are taken by the usher to typists
when matter is finalized, supervise the collection and distribution of court files,
ensure that ushers return to court after adjournments and remain in court, ensure
general supervision of employees, allocation of duties and quality control on the
work delivered by officials, manage leave of staff, advise and lead supervisees,
manage performance, conduct and discipline of employees, ensure that all
employees develop, implement and monitor work systems and processes to
ensure efficient functioning, assist in other administration sections during term and
recess as requested by Chief Registrar and Court Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms N Hanekom Tel No: (021)480 2635
HR Related Enquiries: Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/66/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the Employment
Equity goals.
POST 22/77 : FOOD SERVICE AID, REF NO:2026/59/OCJ
SALARY : R170 226 - R200 523.per annum (level 3). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Land Court: Randburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of NQF Level 01 or 02 (Abet level 02 certificate
or equivalent qualification. Previous experience in hospitality environment will
serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-
entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of relevant legislations, good interpersonal skills,
58
good communication skills (verbal and written), planning and organising skills,
listening skills, highly responsible with good work ethics, ability to work under
pressure, patience, confidence, active, creative and innovative, ability to meet
deadlines and ability to pay attention to detail.
DUTIES : Clean kitchen utensils and equipment, provide catering support services, keep
stock of kitchen utensils and equipment, apply hygiene and safety measures,
maintain quality control measures of all food provided, removal of garbage
disposal, prepare food, snack and beverages (water, tea, coffee, milk, sugar and
cold drinks), setup and convey crockery, cutlery and equipment to dining areas,
serve food and beverages, wash dishes, responsible for food supplies and report
waste and losses, remove all kitchen waste, pack supplies received in the food
storage areas, ensure serviceability of equipment and report any defects or
shortage, set tables including decoration, ensure only authorised personnel have
access to kitchen and to consume meals, apply safety measures in work
environment, adhere to elementary control measures and standard operating
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms N Mhlambi Tel No: (010) 493 6316
HR Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/59/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the Employment
Equity goals.
59
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications due to
technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must provide
certified copies of required documents (Identity Document, qualifications, etc)
where necessary and service certificates to support senior management
experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign qualifications. Failure
to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed at Senior Management
Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-entry programme offered by
the National School of Government (NSG). Find course details here:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/
appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela Programme: Pre-
entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted applicants for the
advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry assessments: a practical
assessment and an integrity assessment, both of which form part of the selection
criteria after the interview. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise
and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric
assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity. NB: Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications
submitted by applicants will be reported to the South African Police Services
(SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your
application before the closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do
not submit duplicate applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate
applications for each post. Applications submitted via email will be acknowledged
via an automated response. Applications received manually will not be
acknowledged due to high volumes of applications received. If you have not heard
from us within 3 months, please consider your application to be unsuccessful.
Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a moratorium be placed on
the filling of posts or the Department is affected by any process such as, but not
limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts, the Department reserves the
right to cancel the recruitment Process And Re-Advertise The Post At Any Time In
The Future. Important: DLRRD is an equal opportunity employer committed to
promoting representivity and affirmative action. We encourage applications from
all qualified candidates. The Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By
applying you consent to the collection and processing of your personal information
for recruitment purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the Department.
Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks, security vetting
and reference checks (including social media profiles). Applications must declare
any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations.
Successful candidates must pass security clearance, sign an employment
contract, sign an annual performance agreement and disclose financial interests.
All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest,
to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may be associated
with. Failure to disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or
termination.
ERRATUM: The position of Director: Corporate Services ref 3/1/1/1/2026/70 for
the Directorate: Corporate Services: Limpopo (Polokwane) that was advertised in
Public Service Vacancy Circular no 21 of 2026 dated 19 June 2026 Has reference.
The Employment Equity target for this position is Coloured and White Males and
African, Coloured and Indian Females and Persons with disabilities. The
Department apologies for any inconvenience caused.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 22/78 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL OPERATIONS SUPPORT (REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/118)
Directorate: Provincial Operations Support
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13) (All-inclusive package) The package includes a
basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be structured in
accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Public Administration
/ Business Administration / Public Management (NQF Level 7) or related equivalent
qualification and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted
60
prior to appointment. Minimum of 5 years of experience at middle / senior
managerial level in the operations support environment. A valid driver’s licence.
Job related knowledge: Understanding of corporate governance principle. Ability
to implement performance management and monitoring systems. Knowledge of
government systems. Job related skills: Ability to communicate effectively across
broad spectrum. A thorough understanding and practical experience of Project
Management. Analytical and problem-solving. Facilitation and coordination and
experience. Experience in implementation of goals / plans, including monitoring,
tracking and reporting status toward goal completion. Ability to think conceptually
when analysing data and designing concepts to modify corporate policies,
procedures and processes. Presentation and comfortable creating and
communicating compelling arguments for modifying a course of action. Computer
literacy. Willingness to travel. Ability to work under pressure and long hours.
DUTIES : Facilitate the integration of planning, resource allocation and performance
management of outcomes of the Provincial Office through the Corporate
Governance Framework. Facilitate the issuing of planning framework by the
Directorate: Strategic Planning for all Provincial Offices and monitor Provincial
Offices planning process. Analyse the District Integrated Operational Plans and
ensure alignment with the DLRRD Annual Performance Plan. Analyse Provincial
Integrated Operational Plans and ensure alignment to the District Operational
Plans. Ensure approval (signing off) of all Districts and Provincial Integrated
Operational Plans. Lead the development and implementation of consistent
corporate performance monitoring and evaluation to focus on the delivery of
Provincial Office Annual Performance Plan outcomes. Manage and implement
evaluation and research frameworks. Monitor the initiating and conducting
research and evaluation. Coordinate the integration of all monitoring and
evaluation systems within the province. Manage reporting instruments and tools
on monitoring and evaluation. Ensure robust governance, effective decision
making, value for money and appropriate benefits are achieved through corporate
activity, policy and strategy frameworks. Monitor monthly and provide written
reports on functionality of provincial governance structures. Randomly attend the
provincial governance structures as part of monitoring functionality. Provide
professional advice and support to the Chief Director: Provincial Office in
community participation, community planning, corporate and operational planning,
program performance reporting, corporate project, policy, strategy and
infrastructure development and implementation, and corporate governance
development and implementation. Provide quarterly reports identifying
performance risks and recommending intervention plans and improvements for
operational efficiency and performance improvements. Prepare bi-annual
integrated operational plan performance reports clearly identifying trends, areas
requiring policy and systems improvements. Provide professional advice as when
the need arise and especially when risks are identified. Provide assistance with the
initiation, management, coordination and the implementation of strategic corporate
projects. Integrate strategic, operational and performance management functions,
frameworks and systems, including recommendations for strategic resource
allocation at provincial level. Provide assistance to the Chief Director: Provincial
Office Coordination to initiate and coordinate the implementation of strategic
corporate (cross-provincial service centres) projects to improve the Provincial
Office ability to meet strategic outcomes and service delivery objectives exercising
appropriate discretion to achieve required outcomes. Monitor the performance of
the identified DLRRD key programmes and facilitate sharing of the best practices
and lessons learnt by provinces through the existing departmental governance
structures. Monitor implementation of Standard Operating Procedures in
implementation of the departmental key programmes (obtain reports from
Directors, analyse and produce bi-monthly reports). Establish and maintain internal
and external networks to monitor trends and best practice in corporate governance.
Identify institutions that will be part of the networks for the DLRRD and have a
report approved by the Chief Director and facilitate development of relationships
and networks with those institutions. Ensure the maintenance of these networks
and ongoing relationships. Benchmark with the identified institutions to get best
practices and learn lessons from these institutions once a year. Develop a report
on proposed continuous improvement. Develop Integrated Operational Plans
performance reporting system. Monitor all provincial performance against the
approved Integrated Operational Plans monthly. Request and get monthly reports
from Directors. Analyse the reports (performance reported against plans, reasons
for variance and proposed intervention plans). Consolidate monthly the Provincial
Performance to one (1) Integrated Operational Performance plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Vuuren Tel: (043) 701 8127 or Ms A Kili Tel: (043) 701 8186
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Ocean
Terrace, Block H, corner of Coutts and Moore Street, Quigney, East London or by
email to Post118@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian Females
and Persons with disabilities.
61
POST 22/79 : CHIEF TOWN AND REGIONAL PLANNER (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/114)
Directorate: Spatial Planning And Land Use Management
SALARY : R1 143 468 - R2 108 922 per annum (The salary will be determined in accordance
with the OSD)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Mowbray)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor's Degree in Town and Regional Planning / Urban and
Regional Planning. Compulsory registration with South African Council for
Planners (SACPLAN) a Professional Town and Regional Planner on appointment.
Minimum of 6 years post qualification Town and Regional Planning experience. A
valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Programme and project
management. Town and regional legal and operational compliance. Town and
regional principles and methodologies. Town and regional planning processes and
procedure. Research and development. Computer-aided applications. Creating
high performance culture. Technical consulting. Job related skills: Strategic
management and direction. Analytical thinking. Creativity and self-management.
Communication (verbal and written). Language proficiency. Computer literacy.
Change management. Negotiation and conflict resolution. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Provide town and regional spatial planning future forecasting. Lead and manage
the application of town and regional planning principles in land development.
Provide technical assistance to professional teams on all aspects regarding town
and regional planning projects. Monitor the implementation of development in
compliance with applicable legislation and town and regional planning standards
and guideline. Manage the compilation and adoption of technical and planning
standards, norms and guidelines. Formulate and interpret planning legislation,
guidelines, policies and regulations. Provide spatial planning and land use
management services in liaison with National Office. Implement tools, systems,
guidelines, policies, programmes and legislations for spatial planning and land use
management at a provincial level. Provide governance. Allocate, monitor and
control resources. Compile risk logs and manage significant risk according to
sound risk management practice and organisational requirements. Provide
technical consulting services for the operation of architectural related matters to
minimise possible architectural risks. Manage and implement knowledge sharing
initiatives e.g. short-term assignments and secondments within and across
operations, in support of individual development plans, operational reequipments
and return on investment. Continuously monitor the exchange and protection of
information between operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge
management according to departmental objectives. Effective management of
external and internal stakeholder. Provide development planning support to
departmental programmes and rural development at the provincial level. Render
planning support and advice to the departmental programmes. Manage the
development of spatial plans at National, Regional, Provincial and Municipal levels.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Matsila Tel: (012) 312 8013
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 4th floor, No
2 Riebeeck Street, ABSA Building, Cape Town or by email to
Post114@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Indian and White Males and African, Indian and White
Females and persons with disabilities.
POST 22/80 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BUDGETS (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/109)
Directorate: Budget Performance Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Financial Management / Commerce /
Economics or related equivalent qualification (NQF Level 6). Minimum of 3 years’
experience at a junior management level in the budget performance field. A valid
driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of budget systems. Computer
accounting software. Knowledge of financial accounting systems. Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles. (GAAP). Job related skills: Project management.
Team management. Interpersonal relations. Budget forecasting. Computer
literacy. Planning and organising. Resource planning. Problem solving and
decision-making. Time management skills. Communication (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Manage the budget performance of the Department and its entities. Coordinate the
budget performance of the Department and its entities. Render management
advisory services in terms of spending of the Department. Produce accurate and
reliable financial information on programme costs and performance. Monitor
expenditure against the allocated budgets. Develop and maintain an integrated
financial performance management system to support day-to-day spending of the
Department. Monitor compliance and alignment to the prescribed Public Finance
Management Act and Treasury Regulations. Perform in-year analysis and advise
62
on expenditure plans and trends to improve effectiveness within the Department.
Manage cashflow projections. Coordinate and compile quarterly expenditure
projections for the Department. Compile the annual drawings to National Treasury.
Ensure reporting of all expenditure, forecasting and trends. Co-ordinate inputs for
the In-Year Monitoring (IYM) Report. Report on all expenditure, forecasting and
trends. Compile the IYM report to management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Malisha Tel: (012) 312 8962
NAOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured and
Indian Females and Persons with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600 Lilian
Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002
or by email to Post109@dlrrd.gov.za
POST 22/81 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SERVICE DELIVERY IMPROVEMENT (REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/110)
Directorate: Organisational Development And Service Delivery Improvement
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Business Administration / Public
Administration / Public Management / Management Services / Operations
Management (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years’
experience at junior management in organisational development and service
delivery improvement. A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Co-
ordination and facilitation of Batho Pele programmes. Practical knowledge in
implementing Batho Pele programmes. Job related skills: Computer literacy.
Communication (verbal and written). Monitoring and evaluation. Facilitation and
presentation. Policy development and analytical thinking. Report writing. Ability to
do research. Ability to work within a team.
DUTIES : Coordinate and / or facilitate the development of a service delivery model for the
Department. Develop the service delivery model template. Circulate service
delivery model template to branches for inputs and sign off. Consolidate service
delivery models received from various branches. Process final draft service
delivery model for Executive Committee approval. Coordinate and / or facilitate
change management interventions. Plan and facilitate change management
interventions. Respond to change management interventions requests. Advise on
the appointment of external change management specialists. Facilitate the
development and review of Service Delivery Improvement Plans (SDIPs). Facilitate
the review of the Service Delivery Improvement Plans. Consolidate reviewed
Service Delivery Improvement Plans for the branches. Facilitate the submission of
the reports on the implementation of Service Delivery Improvement Plans by the
branches. Manage the coordination of service excellence awards. Facilitate the
implementation of the departmental service excellence policy. Coordinate the
actual preparations for the service excellence awards ceremony. Compile the
report on the service excellence awards. Facilitate the participation of the
Department in the national Batho Pele service excellence awards. Represent the
Department in forums dealing with preparations for the national Batho Pele awards.
Manage the coordination and / or facilitate Batho Pele awareness campaigns,
client satisfaction and need surveys. Develop a Survey Framework. Consultation
with internal and external stakeholders. Develop action plans. Facilitate
methodology and tool development. Collect and analyses data. Develop survey
reports. Know your service rights campaign. Develop and review the departmental
Batho Pele strategy. Coordinate training of middle and senior managers on Project
Khaedu. Coordinate deployment of SMS members to field sites. Facilitate the
departmental participation during Public Service month. Coordinate service
delivery watch within the Department. Coordinate Batho Pele Forum meetings.
Facilitate departmental participation during Africa Service Day events. Facilitate
submission of quarterly reports on the implementation of Batho Pele Frameworks.
Monitor compliance on departmental service delivery initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Moopelwa Tel: (012) 312 9496
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600 Lilian
Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002
or by email to Post110@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/82 : INFRASTRUCTURE ADMINISTRATOR OVM (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/89) (2
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Deeds ICT
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
63
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12 Certificate
and a Bachelor’s degree in Information Technology / Computer Science (NQF
Level 6) or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years in system
administration, including Oracle and Linux environments. Experience in
implementing and managing on-prem cloud infrastructure. Hybrid cloud
management skills integrating on-prem and public cloud platforms. Job related
knowledge: Knowledge of system development life cycle. Linux system
administration (RHEL, Oracle Linux). Oracle VM infrastructure and virtualization.
Oracle Enterprise systems and architecture. ZFS storage management and
optimization. System Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Network and FTP protocols.
Database configuration and SQL. Programming languages: Bash, Python, Java,
PHP, C / C++, Perl, Ruby. Job related skills: Computer literacy. Good written and
verbal communication skills. Good judgement and assertiveness skills. Analytical
skills. Decision making. Interpersonal Relation. Project Management. Problem
solving. Technical documentation and reporting. Ability to work under pressure and
meet deadlines. Experience in implementing and managing on-prem cloud
infrastructure. Hybrid cloud management skills integrating on-prem and public
cloud platforms. A valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : System Administration and overall integration of technical activities in architecture.
Administer Oracle VM environments and Linux servers (RHEL, CentOS, Oracle
Linux). Monitor and maintain daily / monthly operating systems and virtual
environments. Implement and maintain disaster recovery and backup strategies.
Manage system availability, performance tuning, and patching. Design and
maintain IT processes aligned with operational policies. Oversee database
configuration and integration with Oracle systems. Develop and manage complex
SQL queries and data extraction protocols. Support application deployments and
release management across environments. Ensure system security, auditability,
and compliance with ICT standards. Conduct vulnerability assessments and apply
remediation. Lead infrastructure-related projects and upgrades. Draft and
implement policies, standards, and procedures for system operations. Perform
system testing and upgrades. Provide technical training and support to internal
teams. Prepare technical reports and documentation for management. Design and
implement on-prem cloud infrastructure to support hybrid deployments. Manage
hybrid cloud environments, integrating on-prem and public cloud platforms. Ensure
coordination of build and test environments teams and release teams. Deal with
storage and traceability or auditability of controlled software in both centralized and
distributed systems. Ensure systems security and security documentation.
Participate and manage all communication IS technical direction and initiatives.
Monitor all communication for each customer to assess operations within time
frame. Prepare designs and evaluate all balancing functions as required by IT
departments and other functional areas. Consult with management to discuss
project specifications or procedures. Consult or negotiate with management to
prepare project specification. Assess project feasibility by analysing technology
resources needs and demand. Manage the release package design, build and
configuration. Manage release package acceptance including business sign-off.
Manage service roll out planning include method of deployment. Manage release
package testing to predefined acceptance criteria. Obtain sign-off for the release
package for implantation. Audit hardware and software before and after the
implementation of release package changes. Analyse all continuous up-gradation
process through various proactive self-initiated project. Develop or implement
policies, standards or procedures for DRS. Draft policies, standards and
procedures. Consult with relevant stakeholders. Submit for approval. Ensure the
implementation of approved policies, standards and procedures. Perform
appropriate tests and provide training to upgrade production quality and
standardize all artefacts. Administer and provide upgrade to systems and escalate
issues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. HS Tshinavhe Tel: (012) 337 9380
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or
apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/(Please separate Application Form for each post)
before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/83 : MICROSOFT SPECIALIST / SERVER ADMINISTRATOR (2 POSTS) (REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/90)
Chief Directorate: Deeds ICT
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
64
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree in Information Technology / Computer Science
(NQF Level 6) or related equivalent qualifications. Minimum of 3 years’ experience
at junior management in network and server administration. Experience with server
virtualization technologies, especially VMware. Strong understanding of network
protocols, IP networking, and network security. Job-related knowledge: Strong
understanding of network protocol, IP networking, and network security.
Knowledge with cloud technologies and services. Knowledge of scripting
languages. Job-related skills: Computer literacy. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Good judgement and assertiveness skills. Analytical skills.
Decision making. Interpersonal relations. Project Management. Problem solving.
A valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Perform server administration tasks. Installing software updates and patches,
monitoring server performance. Provide onsite or remote access diagnoses and
resolution of server. Develop and maintain Standard. Operating Procedures (SOP)
for relevant server. Document network server setups, configurations, changes, and
procedures. Designing, provisioning, installing / configuring, operating, and
maintaining systems. Experience with virtualized storage (e.g., Dell, HP, Pure,
Microsoft), ISCSI, Fiber channel. Develop and maintain technical and functional
documentation for required systems. Develop business and technology standards
and best practises for the server environment. Document function requirement
documentation to ensure it aligns with business objectives. Configure security
policies. Champion configuration of security infrastructure and implementation of
security tools, policies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LM Tshivhase Tel: (012) 337 9380
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or
apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/(Please separate Application Form for each post)
before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/84 : ANALYST PROGRAMMER (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/93)
Directorate: Deeds Enterprise Architecture
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or National Diploma in Information Technology
/ Computer Science or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years’ junior
management experience in C#, application / design capacity. Job related
knowledge: Knowledge of system development lifecycle. Knowledge of Financial
Systems. This role requires strong technical expertise, problem-solving skills, and
the ability to lead and mentor junior developers. The ideal candidate will have a
deep understanding of software development best practices and a passion for
building scalable, robust systems. Job related skills: Coaching and Mentoring
(Through leadership) skills. Presentation skills. Analytical skills. Adaptability and
Flexibility. Customer service. Initiative. Innovation and creativity. Process
improvement. Communication skills. Project Management skills. Computer literate.
Willingness to travel. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop high quality software applications. Deliver robust, scalable, and
maintainable C# applications using .NET Core, ASP.NET, and related frameworks,
meeting project requirements and deadlines. Achieve a code quality score of at
least 90% in code reviews, ensuring adherence to best practices, readability, and
minimal technical debt. Analyse and obtain more information on the request
received. Code the program / function on the system. Perform testing and peer-
review for newly created and modified existing Functions. Provide optimal system
performance and optimisation. Optimize application performance, reducing
response times for critical features, as measured by performance testing tools.
Develop the program and batch processing to extract the data in requested format.
Ensure uptime and reliability for production systems through proactive monitoring
and optimisation. Ensure uptime and optimisation of integration systems. Provide
technical leadership and mentorship. Mentor junior developers per quarter,
improving their coding skills and project contributions, as evidenced by team
feedback and project outcomes. Lead technical design discussions, resulting in
approved architecture plans for assigned projects. Provide development report and
manage technical development resources and risks. Propose and implement
process and technology improvement to improve team productivity or system
efficiency. Provide collaboration and requirements delivery. Translate assigned
business requirements into technical specifications, ensuring alignment with
stakeholder expectations. Collaborate with cross-functional teams to deliver sprint
commitments on time in an Agile environment. Submit the program report. Monitor
65
and improve development process. Produce and maintain clear, comprehensive
documentation for developed features, APIs, and system architectures, ensuring
accessibility for team members.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Tshivhase Tel: (012) 338 7211 and Mr. R Saila Tel: (012) 338 7296
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or
apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/(Please separate Application Form for each post)
before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/85 : APPLICATION ARCHITECTURE (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/94) (2 POSTS)
Directorate: Deeds Enterprise Architecture
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Information Technology or Business /
Informatics or Computer Science (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent qualifications.
Minimum of 3 years' junior management or senior technical lead experience in
application development, systems architecture, or a similar role. Job related
knowledge: Knowledge of TOGAF and GWEA Frameworks. Progressive
experience as a senior developer or technical lead in large IT projects. Deep,
hands-on knowledge of the full Oracle technology stack, C#, MS SQL Server,
SOAP / XML, and REST APIs. Development experience using CSS, XSLT, and
JavaScript. Prior project architect and / or team lead experience. This role focuses
on creating robust, cost-effective, and scalable technical solutions by selecting
optimal technologies and guiding development teams through implementation.
Job-related skills: Technical Leadership skills. Coaching and Mentoring skills.
Presentation skills. Analytical skills. Problem-solving skills. Adaptability and
flexibility. Customer service. Initiative. Innovation and creativity. Communication
skills. Project Management skills. Willingness to travel. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Design and Define Application and Technology Architecture. Define the current
application / technology architecture and identify issues and performance
bottlenecks. Recommend, develop, and maintain Deeds Registration Application
and Technology Architecture blueprints. Ensure application architecture is aligned
with the business and information architecture. Manage Joint Application Design
(JAD) sessions and interviews to define application architecture. Provide guidance
and recommendations on proposed improvement to existing application
landscape. Select and Govern Technology Solutions. Refine and redesign the
application landscape to be more cost-effective. Identify and recommend
appropriate application technologies and frameworks (e.g. SOAP / XML, REST
APIs, JavaScript) that offer the best return on investment in line with Deeds
Registration Trading Entity’s Enterprise Architecture (EA), Business Functional
and Non-functional requirements. Manage the full Oracle technology stack and
other relevant databases (MS SQL Server). Conduct meetings related to the
designated project(s) / programmes to align the application architecture in line with
the defined architecture roadmap. Monitor industry and Communities of Practices
to stay abreast with Architecture developments. Lead Technical Implementation.
Ensure application designs meet business Service Level Agreements (SLAs) for
availability and performance. Develop high-level application architecture
requirements to facilitate the execution of projects and the Deeds Registration
Trading Entity strategy. Set up, manage, and provide technical oversight to
development teams. Coordinate and ensure harmonious working relationships
among relevant application development stakeholders. Liaise and build
relationships with internal and external clients. Monitor industry trends and
Communities of Practice to stay abreast of technology developments. Develop
Technical Documentation and Standards. Develop and maintain detailed technical
documentation for existing and new applications and systems. Document and
improve architectural approaches, service design, and development processes.
Promote knowledge sharing through technical training and workshops for
developers, stakeholders, and peers. Ensure continuous improvement of the
application architecture development and management process. Contribute to the
improvement of application development and maintenance processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. HS Tshinavhe Tel: (012) 337 9380
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or
apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/(Please separate Application Form for each post)
before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
66
POST 22/86 : SENIOR WEB DEVELOPER (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/95)
Directorate: Deeds Enterprise Architecture
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Information Technology or Software
Development or Computer Science (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent
qualification. Minimum of 3 years’ junior management experience in Oracle
database administration, Oracle database concepts and facilities. Job related
knowledge: Knowledge of Java, PHP, Java scripts, C++, and C#, SQL and / or
SharePoint. Knowledge of transactional web application design and Development.
Job related skills: Coaching and Mentoring (Though leadership) skills. Technical
report writing skills. Presentation skills. Adaptability and flexibility. Customer
service. Innovation and creativity. initiative. Analytical skills. Problem solving.
Communication skills. Project Management skills. Computer literate. Willingness
to travel. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Development of web-based programs. Gather and refine specifications and
requirements based on technical / business needs. Design best software
development practices. Conduct test on the program. Update the web-based
programs. Determine and construct web-based software and hardware
architecture. Design and develop user interfaces. Determine design methodologies
and tool sets. Completing programming using languages and software products.
Designing and conducting tests. Implement the programs. Manage web application
development. Create website layout / interface by using standard practices.
Conduct network diagnostics and develop network analytics tools. Integrate
applications by designing database architecture and server scripting. Establish
connectivity with network systems, search engines, and information servers.
Create multimedia applications by using authoring tools. Complete applications
development by coordinating requirements, schedules, and activities. Contributing
to team meetings. Troubleshooting development and production problems across
multiple environments and operating platforms. Oversee application coding and
provide technical expertise. Master web technologies and techniques. Plan and
implement all web-based applications. Maintain, expand and scale the site.
Conduct research on web development technologies and techniques. Research
internet for new methods, technology and scripts. Investigate and implement
enterprise anti spams filtering systems based on current industry trends and
practices. Research on new internet / intranet technologies and software products,
publications; maintaining personal networks etc. Apply the new technology on the
system by Design, Develop, Test and Implement. Create and maintain software
documentation. Determine content management processes / procedures for the
website. Define objectives by analysing user requirements. Envisioning system
features and functionality. Recommend system solutions by comparing
advantages and disadvantages of custom development and purchase alternatives.
Support users by developing documentation and assistance tools. Ensure all
technology solutions are properly architected and specified. Ensure HTML / CSS
is cross-browser and standards compliant and meets accessibility / disability
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Tshivhase Tel: (012) 338 7211 and Mr. R Saila Tel: (012) 338 7296
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or
apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/(Please separate Application Form for each post)
before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/87 : DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR: ORACLE (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/96) (2 POSTS)
Directorate: Deeds Enterprise Architecture
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Information Technology / Computer Science
Information Management (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent qualification.
Minimum of 3 years' junior management experience in Oracle database
administration, Oracle database concepts, and facilities. Job related knowledge:
Knowledge of database software installation and maintenance, Knowledge of Data
extraction, transformation, and loading. Knowledge of specialized data handling
(very large databases with data types such as images and documents). Knowledge
of database backups and recovery. Knowledge of database security and
67
authentication. Database capacity planning and performance monitoring,
troubleshooting, and tuning. Knowledge of transactional databases. Job related
skills: Coaching and Mentoring (Though leadership) skills. Technical report writing
skills. Presentation skills, Analytical skills, Problem solving skills. Communication
skills. Project Management skills. Computer literate. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop deeds database systems. Planning, designing and managing database.
Define new and existing physical data. Prepare programs to create data. Create
physical data definitions to improve performance. Migrate and maintain Deeds
databases to / on cloud environment. Design database tools to monitor file growth
on a daily basis. Check the availability of spaces on all databases (Development,
Test and Production). Allocate space per file (afterhours). Add modify, delate files
and files structure as per request. Determine database optimisation tools. Test and
evaluate programmer and optimisation tools. Answer program queries educate
programmers in the database structures. Define and initiate backup and recovery
procedures. Manage the creation and implementation of the plans to ensure data
integrity. Ensure that sufficient space is made available for growth. Allocate more
disk space (done afterhours). implement database definition controls, access
controls. update controls and concurrence controls etc. Monitor database usage,
collecting performance statistics and tuning the database. Maintain and monitor
database. Add, modify and delete field, field sizes and attributes on the database
as per request. Receive the request from developer Technical Development
Manager. Maintain primary and secondary keys, indexes, super descriptors.
Improve and maintain database to Include rollout and upgrades. Implement and
release database changes according to agreed timescales and costs. Keep the
three data base (Develop, Test and Production) in synchronization.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Tshivhase Tel: (012) 338 7211 and Mr R Saila Tel: (012) 338 7296
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or
apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/(Please separate Application Form for each post)
before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/88 : SOFTWARE TESTER (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/97)
Directorate: Deeds Enterprise Architecture
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Information Technology / Computer Science
or related equivalent qualification. ISTQB certification or a related equivalent
certification. Minimum of 3 years’ experience in software testing, including both
manual and automated testing, with a strong understanding of the SDLC.
Experience working with web technologies and in Agile teams is essential. Testing
and OPS Tools: Selenium, Cucumber, Xray, REST assured, Grafana k6. Job-
related knowledge: Knowledge of agile methodologies and experience working in
agile teams. Knowledge of database software installation and maintenance.
Knowledge of Data extraction, transformation, and loading. Knowledge of
specialized data handling (very large database with data types such as images and
documents). Knowledge of database backups and recovery. Knowledge of
database security and authentication. Database capacity planning and
performance monitoring, troubleshooting and tuning. Knowledge of transactional
database. Job related skills: Coaching and Mentoring (Though leadership) skills.
Presentation skills. Analytical skills. Adaptability and Flexibility. Customer service.
Initiative. Innovation and creativity. Process improvement. Communication skills.
Project Management skills. Computer literate. Willingness to travel. A valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Develop and Execute Comprehensive Test Plans and Test Cases. Identify and
extract test requirements from business requirements and acceptance criteria.
Design, develop, and document detailed test plans, test cases, and test scripts for
manual and automated execution. Establish, implement, and evolve formal QA
processes and methodologies (e.g., Agile, International Software Testing
Qualifications Board (ISTQB) standards to ensure consistent and high-quality
testing outcomes. Proactively identify and implement improvements to the testing
process, such as environment setup or test data management, to enhance team
efficiency. Analyse and implement performance, load, and security testing
solutions based on project requirements. Conduct Manual and Automated Testing.
Execute manual testing across all test levels, including functional, integration,
system, regression, performance, reliability, and security testing. Develop,
maintain, and execute automated test scripts for functional, Application.
Programming Interface (API), and regression testing to improve efficiency and test
coverage. Track new and changed requirements to ensure they are adequately
68
addressed during both automated and manual testing cycles. Identify, log, and
manage defects during test execution using designated defect tracking tools.
Participate actively throughout the entire software development lifecycle (SDLC)
with a focus on integrating quality assurance early and continuously. Generate
reports on defects metrics for management and stakeholder. Contribute to the
development of the overall test automation strategy. Govern and Facilitate User
Acceptance Testing (UAT). Govern the service provider(s) by formally reviewing
their test plans, test cases, and ensuring UAT readiness, including a stable test
environment and realistic data. Prepare and train business users for UAT,
facilitating sessions on the system under test and the use of defect tracking tools
and protocols. Act as the primary point of coordination during UAT, ensuring
business-reported defects are accurately logged, tracked, and followed up with the
development team / service provider for timely resolution. Lead formal reviews of
test plans, designs, and requirements with cross-functional teams to ensure clarity
and comprehensive test coverage. Communicate and coordinate with peers and
senior individuals in cross-functional groups to articulate and compare alternative
testing approaches and mitigate risks. Document, Track, and Report on Quality
Assurance. Document and report detailed test results, including test execution
status and defect metrics, tailoring reports for different audiences (e.g.,
management, development teams). Implement and manage a rigorous defect
lifecycle process, including daily follow-up with development teams on outstanding
issues to ensure timely resolution. Generate comprehensive weekly test summary
reports for management and stakeholders, covering test progress, defect trends,
and overall quality status. Ensure all software components meet defined quality
standards, business needs, and relevant legislative requirements (e.g. PFMA,
Deeds Registries Act). Drive quality control and test plan execution within Agile
sprints, ensuring quality gates are met and contributing to continuous
improvement.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Tshivhase Tel: (012) 338 7211 and Mr R Saila Tel: (012) 338 7296
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or
apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/89 : NETWORK MANAGER (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/99)
Directorate: Information Technology Systems And Security Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and National Diploma in Information Technology (NOF Level 6) or
related equivalent qualification. CCNP certification or related equivalent
certification. Minimum of 3 year’s junior management experience in the information
technology field. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of Networking Technologies
across diverse platforms. The Constitution. Government decision making
processes. Internal performance evaluation and reporting. Good governance and
Batho Pele Principles. Diversity Management. Labour and Employment
Legislation. Public Service Regulations. government systems and structures. The
political landscape of South Africa. Performance Management and Monitoring.
Public Service Transformation. Public Finance Management Act. Deeds Registries
Act, 1937. Sectional Titles Act, 1986. Land Survey Act, 1997. Other property
related legislation. Best practice certifications / training (ITIL and COBIT).
Knowledge of Deeds Registration systems (DRS), Deeds Office. Tracking System,
DeedsWeb, DeedsView, DeedsScan and DeedsVerify). Knowledge of Cadastral
information systems and the related databases. Knowledge and the ability to
develop solutions to implement key business strategies. Job related skills: Ability
to make appropriate decisions considering the relative costs and benefits of
potential. Project management skills. Business analysis skills. Communication
skills. Team worker skills. Facilitation skills. Good judgement and assertiveness
skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Lead and manage team of network engineers and specialists. Oversee the
deployment, configuration, and maintenance of network devices, including routers,
switches, firewalls, load balances, and wireless controllers. Lead and oversee
network-related projects, establish project plans, allocate resourcing, and ensure
project are completed on time within scope. Provide guidance mentorship and
performance management to ensure team success. Collaborate with cross-
functional teams, including systems administrators, security teams, application
developers, and business stakeholders. Create and maintain a roadmap of all IT
projects and initiatives for their IT domain and manage the resourcing, deployment
schedules, and interactions with other role-players. Creates a plan for the
69
continuous and efficient running of the Network and they establish and maintain
close relationships with all suppliers and vendors responsible for providing the
support and maintenance for specific technology components in the Network
domain. Ensure the network designs aligned with business requirements and
industry best practices. Contribute to the specification and planning for other digital
solutions in our environment. Produce comprehensive technical specifications that
offer technical viable solutions and address the business requirements. Review
and approve network designs. Conduct continuous business and industry research
to guide critical evaluation of architectural and design patterns and principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Tshinavhe Tel: (012) 337 9380
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or
apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities
POST 22/90 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION SECURITY (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/100)
Directorate: Information Technology Systems And Security Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Computer Science, Information Technology /
IT security Engineering, Informatics (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent
qualification. Minimum of 3 years’ junior management experience in ICT
Infrastructure, application development and ICT Security. Investigation risk
analysis. Information Technology security services. Job related skills:
Communication skills. Investigative skills. Analytical skills. Liaison skills.
Management skills. Work under pressure and meet deadlines. Use a computer for
prolonged periods. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation of security software. Monitor and evaluate solutions
such as firewall, SSL encryption, digital signature encryption, antivirus and/or
identity and access management. Monitor / oversee network of security resources
and vendors: Ensure employees and vendors comply with Departmental
Information Security Policies and Procedures. Ensure protection of information
communication technology Security services including assets, intellectual property
and computer systems. Monitor / oversee external and internal security threats.
Identify potential areas of non-compliance, vulnerability and risk. Develops /
implements corrective action / plans for resolution of problematic issues. Provide
general guidance on how to avoid or deal with similar situations in the future.
Provide training and Support, Security infrastructures and services. Ensure that all
Departmental infrastructure has the correct level of protection to ensure secure
operation. Provide information security awareness programs. Provide information
security awareness programs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Tshivhase Tel: (012) 338 7211 and Mr R Saila Tel: (012) 338 7296
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or
apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/91 : ASSISTANT REGISTRAR OF DEEDS: EXAMINATION AND SORTING (REF
NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/106) (5 POSTS)
Directorate: Examination, Execution, And Deeds Training Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Cape Town)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Law / National Diploma Deeds Registration
Law / Buris / B Proc / LLB or relevant equivalent qualifications. Minimum of 4 years’
experience at middle management level in Deeds environment. Extensive and
proven ability in knowing, interpreting, and applying various legislation and Acts
pertaining to registration of Deeds including (but not limited to): Deeds Registries
Act, Sectional Titles Act, Ordinances, Proclamations, Case Law, Common Law.
Ability to address a professional audience comfortably. Ability to convey knowledge
to others. Planning and execution skills. Communication skills. Project
Management skills.
70
DUTIES : Monitor examination of deeds and documents. Check deeds and documents for
registrability and take corrective measures. Grant hearing to Conveyancers, make
ruling and provide guidance. Provide inputs for the update of deeds practice
manual, legislation, and draft circulars. Report on examination team performance,
standards, and turnaround times. Update acts, manuals, and circulars. Execute
deeds. Validate that appointed appearer has signed execution clause / request for
registration. Verify validity date of relevant certificates. Sign all deeds and
documents that are registrable. Report problems with regard to execution of deeds,
to ARD / DROD in charge of execution. Draft reports to court. Receive the notice
of motions and all supporting documents. Peruse notices of motions and
supporting documents. Research the facts there in. Compile a report to court and
attach all relevant documents. Manage the execution of deeds and documents.
Attend to the requests for late and expedited execution of deeds and arrange for
final black booking. Notify conveyancers regarding problems encountered on
deeds at execution and provide guidance. Monitor execution register for
Conveyancers. Reject deeds that are not registrable. Attend to simultaneous
registration with other offices. Manage distribution of deeds. Verify the information
on the distribution list with actual deeds batches and spot-check. Verify returned
deeds against distribution list and initiate corrective measures. Manage statistics,
exception reports and implement corrective measures. Prevent and address
backlogs. Attend to queries relating to deeds on the system. Authorize request for
withdrawal of deeds. Manage the update procedure manual.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Segapu or Ms M Young Tel: (021) 464 7623
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Registrar of Deeds, Western Cape Deeds Registry, 2 Riebeek Street, Cape Town
City Centre, Cape Town, 8000 or apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application
Portal; https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for
each post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Indian and White
Females and persons with disabilities.
POST 22/92 : ASSISTANT REGISTRAR OF DEEDS: EXAMINATION AND SORTING (REF
NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/108)
Directorate: Examination, Execution, And Deeds Training Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Northern Cape (Kimberly)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Law / National Diploma Deeds Registration
Law / Buris / B Proc / LLB or relevant equivalent qualifications. Minimum of 4 years’
experience at middle management level in Deeds environment. Extensive and
proven ability in knowing, interpreting, and applying various legislation and Acts
pertaining to registration of Deeds including (but not limited to): Deeds Registries
Act, Sectional Titles Act, Ordinances, Proclamations, Case Law, Common Law.
Ability to address a professional audience comfortably. Ability to convey knowledge
to others. Planning and execution skills. Communication skills. Project
Management skills.
DUTIES : Monitor examination of deeds and documents. Check deeds and documents for
registrability and take corrective measures. Grant hearing to Conveyancers, make
ruling and provide guidance. Provide inputs for the update of deeds practice
manual, legislation, and draft circulars. Report on examination team performance,
standards, and turnaround times. Update acts, manuals, and circulars. Execute
deeds. Validate that appointed appearer has signed execution clause / request for
registration. Verify validity date of relevant certificates. Sign all deeds and
documents that are registrable. Report problems with regard to execution of deeds,
to ARD / DROD in charge of execution. Draft reports to court. Receive the notice
of motions and all supporting documents. Peruse notices of motions and
supporting documents. Research the facts there in. Compile a report to court and
attach all relevant documents. Manage the execution of deeds and documents.
Attend to the requests for late and expedited execution of deeds and arrange for
final black booking. Notify conveyancers regarding problems encountered on
deeds at execution and provide guidance. Monitor execution register for
Conveyancers. Reject deeds that are not registrable. Attend to simultaneous
registration with other offices. Manage distribution of deeds. Verify the information
on the distribution list with actual deeds batches and spot-check. Verify returned
deeds against distribution list and initiate corrective measures. Manage statistics,
exception reports and implement corrective measures. Prevent and address
backlogs. Attend to queries relating to deeds on the system. Authorize request for
withdrawal of deeds. Manage the update procedure manual.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. V Mbizeni Tel (053) 832 7228
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: to the Office
of the Registrar of Deeds: Kimberley at Conner Stead and Knight Streets, 10th
Floor New Public Building, Kimberley 8301. or apply by accessing Deeds Online
71
Job Application Portal; https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate
Application Form for each post) before the closing date as no late applications will
be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and persons with disabilities
POST 22/93 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/115)
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R610 434 — R1 442 451 per annum (The salary will be determined in accordance
with the OSD)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Mowbray)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a LLB or as otherwise determined by the Minister of Justice and
Constitutional Development. Minimum of 8 years post-qualification legal
experience according to legal OSD. Experience in drafting and vetting of contracts.
Experience in research and / or drafting of legal opinions. A valid driver’s licence.
Job related knowledge: Knowledge of South African law. Knowledge of legislation
administration by the Department. Knowledge of departmental policies and
procedures. Job related skills: Abilities to interpret acts and regulations. Ability to
research the law. Ability to apply the law to set of facts. Excellence drafting and
writing ability. Communication (verbal and written). Ability to present. Client
relations and conflict management. Problem solving. Computer literacy. Ability to
manage. Ability to interpret the law. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Draft or vet all contracts. Receive instructions and draft or vet the required
contracts. Consult with functionaries or request further information if required.
Consult with functionaries or request further information if required. Provide
assistance to line functionaries with the negotiation of contracts where necessary.
Do research on contracts if necessary. Provide legal advice on matters arising
during the drafting of contracts. Manage external experts such as counsel, who
may be briefed to draft or vet contracts. Review standard contracts periodically.
Draft or vet other legal documents such as affidavits, delegations, and
correspondence of a legal nature, as well as reports. Receive instructions and draft
or vet the required other legal documents. Do research if necessary. Provide legal
advice on matters arising during drafting of other legal documents. Manage
external experts, such as counsel, who may be briefed to draft or vet other legal
documents. Provide legal opinions and general legal advice. Receive instructions
and request further information if necessary. Conduct research. Consult with
relevant stakeholders. Analyse court precedents and written articles / publications.
Draft legal opinions. Facilitate obtainment of external legal opinions. Manage
external experts, such as counsel or the State Law Advisors, to ensure that
opinions are provided timeously. Ensure that external opinions are legally sound
before they are furnished to client. Ensure that applicable areas of the law are
ventilated in the legal opinions. Provide legal assistance in respect of Promotion of
Access to Information Act (PAIA) requests. Evaluate new requests and refer to the
relevant Deputy Information Officer (DIO) or line functionary. Advice the DIO or line
functionary on issues that may arise during the processing of request. Monitor that
the DIO or line functionary attends to the requests and finalise them within the
prescribed timeframes. Keep a register of all requests received and the outcomes
thereof. Manage staff and perform other middle management tasks. Compile and
sign performance agreements with stuff. Review performance of all staff according
to regulations and policies. Develop and implement employee development plans.
Address grievances within 30 days. Address misconduct of staff in terms of
disciplinary code and departmental policies and procedures. Provide supports and
guidance to subordinates. Provide inputs into the annual operational plan for the
Directorate. Provide information for the Director's monthly, quarterly, and annual
reports on performance against the Operational Plan. Preform other middle
management tasks as may be delegated by the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N. Mgoqi Tell: 076 512 5216
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 4th floor, No
2 Riebeeck Street, ABSA Building, Cape Town or by email to
Post115@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and persons with disabilities.
POST 22/94 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SERVICE DELIVERY IMPROVEMENT (REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/111)
Directorate: Organisational Development and Service Delivery Improvement
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Business Administration / Public
Administration / Public Management / Management Services / Operations
72
Management (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years’
experience in organisational development and service delivery improvement. A
valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Co-ordination and facilitation of Batho
Pele programmes. Practical knowledge in implementing Batho Pele programmes.
Job related skills: Computer literacy. Communication (verbal and written).
Monitoring and evaluation. Facilitation and presentation. Policy development and
analytical thinking. Report writing. Ability to research. Ability to work within a team.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development of a service delivery model for the Department. Develop
the service delivery model template. Circulate service delivery model template to
branches for inputs and sign off. Consolidate service delivery models received from
various branches. Process final draft service delivery model for Executive
Committee approval. Facilitate change management interventions. Plan and
facilitate change management interventions. Respond to change management
interventions requests. Advise on the appointment of external change
management specialists. Review and update Service Delivery Improvement Plans
(SDIP’s). Facilitate the review of the Service Delivery Improvement Plans.
Consolidate reviewed Service Delivery Improvement Plans for the branches.
Facilitate the submission of the reports on the implementation of Service Delivery
Improvement Plans by the branches. Coordinate service excellence awards.
Facilitate the implementation of the departmental service excellence policy.
Coordinate the actual preparations for the service excellence awards ceremony.
Compile the report on the service excellence awards. Facilitate the participation of
the Department in the national Batho Pele service excellence awards. Represent
the Department in forums dealing with preparation for the national Batho Pele
awards. Facilitate client satisfaction, need surveys and coordinate Batho Pele
awareness campaigns. Develop a Survey Framework. Consultation with internal
and external stakeholders. Develop action plans. Facilitate methodology and tool
development. Collect and analyse data. Develop survey reports. Know your
service rights campaigns. Monitor the implementation of Batho Pele strategy.
Coordinate training of middle and senior managers on Project Khaedu. Coordinate
deployment of SMS members to field sites. Facilitate the departmental participation
during Public Service month. Coordinate service delivery watch within the
Department. Coordinate Batho Pele Forum meetings. Facilitate departmental
participation during Africa Service Day events. Facilitate submission of quarterly
reports on the implementation of Batho Pele Frameworks. Monitor compliance on
departmental service delivery initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Moopelwa Tel: (012) 312 9496
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600 Lilian
Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002
or by email to Post111@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/95 : SYSTEMS SERVICE SUPPORT OFFICER (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/91)
Chief Directorate: Deeds ICT
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Information Technology / Computer Science
(NQF Level 6) or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years’ experience
in IT support technical activities. Job-related knowledge: Knowledge of system
design, UML and OOA and D methodology. Knowledge of system development
lifestyle. Knowledge and understanding with Microsoft Azure. Knowledge of
loading and deploying virtual servers on VMWare or Cloud infrastructure. Job-
related skills: Computer literate. Technical skills. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Analytical skills. Decision-making skills. Interpersonal
relation. Project Management. Problem-solving skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate the scope and specifications of all system change and
upgrade requests with ICT. Monitor system performance, identify issues, and
implement corrective actions to optimize system efficiency. Create and manage
user accounts, roles and security profiles within internal systems. Ensure
appropriate user access controls and permissions are in place, adhering to
company policies and regulatory requirements. Conduct periodic access reviews
and audits to identify and address any security. Ongoing maintenance of systems
by identifying bugs / system fixes / enhancements for ICT to resolve and verify prior
to release to users. System configuration and customization. Test and provide
feedback of system issues to the systems and ICT. Lead project manage new
operational systems design as specified by management and / or needs of the
business. Collaborate with cross-functional teams to drive system enhancements
and secure alignment with business objectives. Provide guidance and support to
end-users regarding system usage, data entry and reporting. Generate new ideas
and concepts for system improvements for management approval and project
manage to completion. Develop and deliver training materials and workshops to
73
educate users on system functionalities, best practices, and new features that is
approved by service providers and ICT. Identifying the development needs for the
purpose of streamlining and improving the operations of the organization for
efficiency and profitability.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. HS Tshinavhe Tel: (012) 337 9380
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or
apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/96 : SENIOR EXAMINERS (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/101) (6 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Directorate: Examination, Execution, And Deeds Training Services: Gauteng
(Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Law / National Diploma Deeds Registration
Law / Buris / B Proc / LLB or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years’
experience in first level examination of deeds and documents. Knowledge of deeds
registration processes and procedures. Interpretation of statutes. Examination of
Deeds. Human Resource prescripts. Project Management. Property Law.
Computer skills. Communication skills. Organising skills. Problem solving skills.
Interpersonal skills. Report writing. Supervisory skills. People Management skills.
Interpretation skills. Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Examine deeds and documents. Check that first level examination duties have
been performed and initiate corrective measures where necessary. Examine
deeds for registrability, advise conveyancers about non-compliance with practice,
procedures and legislation then pass or reject deeds and documents. Compile
quality assurance report, take appropriate interventions and submit. Update acts,
manuals and circulars. Training of subordinates. Conduct person-to-person
training and keep training schedule and submit. Nominate subordinates for deeds
training courses. Consult with clients relating to deeds and documents. Discuss
notes with Conveyancers and provide guidance. Check the deeds for compliance
and remove notes. Distribute deeds. Sort and assess / value deeds for distribution
and compile distribution list. Distribute deeds according to transactions and
batches to Examiners. Monitor allocated townships / schemes / rosters / corrective
maintenance and expedited deeds. Analyse DOTS reports on discrepancies and
outstanding deeds and initiate corrective measures. Implement measures to
address backlogs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LR Maloka / Mr HP Nkwinika Tel. (011) 843 8338 / 8314
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Registrar of Deeds: at 28 Harrison Street, Marshalltown 2107, Johannesburg, 2001
or apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured and Indian Males and Indian Females and Persons
with disabilities.
POST 22/97 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND
AUXILIARY SERVICES (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/104)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Deeds Registry (Pietermaritzburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Human Resources Management / Public
Management / Administration / Public Administration or relevant equivalent
qualifications. Minimum of 3 years’ experience at supervisory level in Human
Resources Management. Good knowledge of Labour Relations Act. Knowledge of
the Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Knowledge of Human Resource Policies
and Procedures. Understanding of recruitment and selection processes.
Knowledge of Performance Management Systems (PPMS). Computer literacy.
Good interpersonal skills. Good written and verbal communication skills. Problem
Solving and Decision-Making skills. Dispute and Conflict management skills. Time
Management skills. Computer software skills. Project Management skills. Planning
skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage Human Capital. Monitor turnaround times of capturing of applications.
Oversee compilation of recruitment plan. Manage recruitment and selection
process. Verify compiled statistics and maintain establishment. Update office
Employment Equity plan and verify Employment Equity stats. Manage labour
relations matters. Facilitate / Conduct preliminary investigations and implement
recommendations. Promote sound labour relations. Facilitate disciplinary hearings,
74
conciliations, and arbitrations. Facilitate the issuing of misconduct / grievance /
dispute outcomes and coordinate appeals. Provide advice on labour relations
matters. Update statistics and submit. Manage Service Benefits. Oversee the
drafting and implementation of office leave plan and take corrective measures.
Oversee recording of leave, leave audit, analyse trends, and take remedial action.
Monitor leave register, analyse trends and submit report. Manage housing / rental
benefits, authorize transactions, and monitor registers. Manage termination of
service. Facilitate Employee Wellness process and programs. Manage
administration of bursaries. Manage records and registry. Manage registry services
and ensure compliance. Manage records management and ensure compliance.
Verify the disposal memorandum and facilitate disposal of records. Manage
employee Performance and development. Verify office Employee Performance
Management and Development System implementation plan, monitor compliance,
and submit report. Monitor quality assurance on Performance Agreements,
midterm, and annual reviews, and provide report. Verify and monitor
implementation of training plan. Manage Moderating Committee processes. Verify
Moderating Committee summary reports and compile Moderating Committee
memorandum for approval. Manage probation reports. Facilitate inputs for the
reviewing of generic performance agreements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Mthembu or Mr S Mtshali Tel: (033) 355 6811 / 6812
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Registrar of Deeds: Pietermaritzburg at 300 Pietermaritzburg Street,
Pietermaritzburg, 3201 or apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and persons with disabilities.
POST 22/98 : SENIOR EXAMINERS (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/107) (7 POSTS)
Western Cape Deeds Registry
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Law / National Diploma Deeds Registration
Law / Buris / B Proc / LLB or relevant equivalent qualifications. Minimum of 3 years’
experience in first level examination of deeds and documents. Deeds registration
processes and procedures. Interpretation of statutes. Examination of Deeds.
Human Resource prescripts. Project Management. Property Law. Computer skills.
Communication skills. Organising skills. Problem solving skills. Interpersonal skills.
Report writing. Supervisory skills. People Management skills. Interpretation skills.
Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Examine deeds and documents. Check that first level examination duties have
been performed and initiate corrective measures where necessary. Examine
deeds for registrability, advise conveyancers about non-compliance with practice,
procedures and legislation then pass or reject deeds and documents. Compile
quality assurance report, take appropriate interventions and submit. Update acts,
manuals and circulars. Training of subordinates. Conduct person-to-person
training and keep training schedule and submit. Nominate subordinates for deeds
training courses. Consult with clients relating to deeds and documents. Discuss
notes with Conveyancers and provide guidance. Check the deeds for compliance
and remove notes. Distribute deeds. Sort and assess/value deeds for distribution
and compile distribution list. Distribute deeds according to transactions and
batches to Examiners. Monitor allocated townships / schemes / rosters/corrective
maintenance and expedited deeds. Analyse DOTS reports on discrepancies and
outstanding deeds and initiate corrective measures. Implement measures to
address backlogs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Segapu or Ms M Young Tel: (021) 464 7623
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Registrar of Deeds, Western Cape Deeds Registry, 2 Riebeek Street, Cape Town
City Centre, Cape Town, 8000 or apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application
Portal; https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for
each post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured and Indian Males and African Females and Persons
with disabilities.
POST 22/99 : RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/112)
Directorate: Knowledge, Information And Innovation Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Information Management (NQF Level 6) or
relevant equivalent qualification. Minimum of 2 years’ experience working in the
75
records management environment. A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge:
Public Service Regulations, 2016 (as amended). Relevant training presented by
the National Archives and Records Service. National Archives and Records
Services Act of South Africa (Act no 43 of 1996, as amended). Electronic records
management and preservation principles. Records and registry management
procedures. Records and documents management systems. Records
management policy. Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS). Electronic
classification systems. Job related skills: Facilitation and presentation. Planning
and organising. Computer literacy. Problem solving. Communication (verbal and
written). Ability to work within a team.
DUTIES : Coordinate the records management and filing services in all registries / offices.
Ensure that all records created and received are classified according to the
approved Departmental File Plan. Verify the client’s records management with the
records classification systems, records decongestion / backlog clearing and
enterprise content management. Coordinate the preservation of historical records.
Coordinate disposal of appropriate records. Ensure that no archival / permanent
valuable records are destroyed. Gather and collate inputs for the determination of
retention periods of records. Gather and collate inputs to the user manual for
registry staff. Respond to enquiries on records management and registry services.
Monitor the implementation and maintenance of records management systems.
Promote the implementation of records management policy, processes and
procedures. Provide advice on the application of registry standard operating
procures and records classification systems. Update records management system,
including the maintenance and management of active and archived records.
Maintain departmental security and confidentiality of information in accordance
with policies requirements. Liaise with other Departments for best practices on
records management. Conduct inspections in terms of records management
practices and procedures. Monitor the quality of records created. Investigate the
response times in retrieving records and providing information. Monitor the quantity
of records disposed. Inspect the condition of all records in all storage areas.
Review the accessibility of all records on all storage media. Facilitate records
management awareness programs. Identify awareness interventions and training
on records management. Conduct on-site records management orientation.
Coordinate the training on the records management systems. Develop survey
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PA Khatlake Tel: (012) 312 8796
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600 Lilian
Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002
or by email to Post112@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/100 : ICT TECHNICIAN (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/92)
Chief Directorate: Deeds ICT
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12 Certificate
and a National Diploma in Information Technology (NQF 6) or related equivalent
qualification. MCSE certification or related equivalent certification. Minimum of 2
years’ experience in Information Technology field. Job related knowledge:
Knowledge of Networking Technologies across diverse platforms. Knowledge of
Information Technology Acts and Policies. Knowledge of internal control and risk
management. Knowledge of Project management principles and tools. Knowledge
of technical aspects of Information and communication Technology goods and
services. Job related skills: Project management skills. Business analysis skills.
Communication skills. Team worker skills. Facilitation skills. Good judgement and
assertiveness skills. Planning and Organising skills. Supervisory skills. Computer
skills. Interpersonal skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide technical line support to all end users (hardware and software support).
Diagnose and resolve software and hardware incidents, including operating
systems (Windows and Mac) and across a range of software applications. Assist
all our users with any logged IT related incident when called upon. Take ownership
of issues by carrying out problem analysis to implement temporary or permanents
fixes with the aim of restoring service to the customer as soon as possible.
Escalating incidents to other support teams where necessary. Accurately record,
update and document requests using the IT service desk system. Install and
configure new IT equipment. Resolve incidents with printers, copiers and scanners.
Maintain a first-class level of customer service ensuring that all customers are
treated efficiently and in an appropriate manner. Maintain excellent verbal
communication skills with the ability to communicate effectively with technical and
non-technical colleagues at all levels in the organization. Ensure technology is
accessible and equipped with current hardware and software. Troubleshoot
hardware, software and network operating system. Be familiar with all hardware
76
and software. Be familiar with network operating systems. Provide orientation to
new users of existing technology. Train staff about potential uses of existing
technology. Train staff about new and potential use. Provide individual training and
support on request. Provide recommendations about accessing information and
support. Maintain current and accurate inventory of technology hardware, software
and resources. Provide, monitor and manage Local Area Network (LAN).
Coordinate IT Network support with internal and external parties. Provide IT
Network support. Monitor network and report any anomalies. Document and
maintain network equipment and configurations. Ensure security measures are
met, and policies are adhered and workshop ICT Policies. Educate users about
ICT policies such as password policy, email policy, internet policy, desktop policy
and etc. Monitor and maintain technology to ensure maximum access.
Troubleshoot all technology issues. Maintain log and / or list of required repairs
and maintenance. Make recommendations about the purchase of technology
resources. Research current and potential resources and services. Ensure
hardware is stripped and secured before disposal. Test and rollout all projects that
OCIO is rolling out to the department and serve as a point of contact to regional
technical staff regards to all projects undertaken by OCIO. Test new applications
before implemented / installed in departmental Network and advice accordingly.
Assist on escalated calls from technicians from other regions and resolve them on
time. Train technician from other regions if there is a new application in the
Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. HS Tshinavhe Tel: (012) 337 9380
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or
apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/101 : SYSTEMS SUPPORT ANALYST (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/98)
Directorate: Deeds Enterprise Architecture
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma Information Technology / Informatics or related
equivalent qualification (NQF 6). Minimum of 3 years’ experience in system
analysis. Experience with SDLC. Proven work experience in system support. Job
related knowledge: Knowledge of Operating Systems. Knowledge of hardware and
infrastructure. Knowledge of IT Service Management (ITSM). Knowledge of
database management. Job related skills: Technical reporting skills. Analytical
skills. Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Provide Requirements Analysis and Documentation. Conduct stakeholder
interviews and workshops to gather requirement. Create clear, concise, and
comprehensive documentation, including process flow and use cases. Validate
requirements with business and technical teams to ensure clarity and feasibility of
proposed solution. Provide System Design and Solution Development. Deliver
system design documents of assigned projects. Design specifications during
development, minimizing deviations. Reduce system design-related defects
through iterative reviews. Develop system architecture, data models, and
workflows in collaboration with IT teams. Ensure designs align with organizational
standards and industry best practices. Collaborate with developers to translate
designs into functional systems. Participate in System testing and quality
assurance activities. Contribute to creation and execution of text cases, including
functional, integration, and regression. Coordinate UAT with end-users and
document feedback. Work with developers to resolve bugs and system reliability.
Manage stakeholders' collaboration and communication. Monitor and analyse
security logs and alerts to detect potential security incidents or breaches.
Implement security measures, such as access, encryption, multi-factor
authentication to safeguard sensitive data. Regularly conduct security
assessments and audits to identify vulnerabilities and weaknesses in the IT
infrastructure. Collaborate with cybersecurity team to develop and enforce security
policies and procedures across the organization. Ensure IT system and data are
protected against security threats and comply with relevant regulations and
standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. HS Tshinavhe Tel: (012) 337 9380
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002 or
apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
77
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/102 : FINANCE CLERK (SUPERVISOR) (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/113)
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate or relevant equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years of experience
in a financial environment required. Job related knowledge: Basic knowledge of
financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate a
computer and collate financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of the Public
Services financial legislations, procedures and Treasury Regulations (Public
Finance Management Act, Division of Revenue Act, Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, Financial
Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS
etc). Planning and organisation. Computer literacy. Communication (verbal and
written). Basic numeracy. Flexibility. Interpersonal relations. Ability to work within
a team. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to operate office equipment.
Accuracy. Aptitude of figures. Willingness to work additional hours as and when
required.
DUTIES : Supervise and render financial accounting transactions. Receive and allocate
invoices. Verify invoices for correctness, verification and approval (internal control).
Verify processing of invoices (e.g. capturing of payments). Supervise filing of all
documents. Supervise collection of cash. Supervise and perform salary
administration support services. Receive and allocate salary advices. Process and
ensure the processing of salary advices (e.g. check advices for correctness,
capture salaries, bonuses, salary adjustments, capture all deductions etc).
Supervise the filing of all documents. Supervise and perform bookkeeping support
services. Verify all financial transactions captured. Clear suspense accounts.
Record debtors and creditors. Verify and process the processing of electronic
banking transactions. Compile journals and verify the compilation of journals.
Render a budget support service. Verify information collected from budget holders.
Compare and verify the comparison of expenditure against budget. Identify
variances and verify the identification of variances. Verify the capturing, allocations
virements on budgets. Supervise the distribution of documents with regard to the
budget. Supervise the filing of all documents. Supervise the receipt and capturing
of cash payments. Supervise human resources / staff. Allocate and ensure quality
of work. Personnel development. Assess staff performance. Apply discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SH Sambo Tel: (012) 312 8861
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600 Lilian
Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park, Pretoria, 0002
or by email to Post113@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured and Indian Males and Coloured Females and
Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/103 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/119)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Chief Directorate: Provincial Office: Eastern Cape (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and National Diploma in Public Administration / Public Management /
Business Administration / Business Management or relevant equivalent
qualification. Minimum of 1 year experience in administration environment. Job
related knowledge: Public Service Regulations Financial procedures. Treasury
Regulations. Basic Accounting System (BAS). LOGIS system. Job related skills:
Computer literacy. Interpersonal relations. Organising and planning.
Communication (verbal and written). Analytical thinking. Problem solving and
financial management.
DUTIES : Render financial management services. Facilitate, plan, oversee, drive the timely
and accurate preparation of the annual budget in line with the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Strategic priorities weekly /
monthly / quarterly. Compile Demand Management Plan (DMP), Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF), Adjustment Estimates (AE) and Estimates
National Expenditure (ENE). Oversee effective, efficient and economical utilisation
of funds. Document and communicate procedures for accessing and shifting of
funds. Coordinate budgeting, audit and financial functions. Administer Subsistence
and Transport claims and other relates expenditure. Administer the procurements
of goods and services. Compile and maintain the Demand Management Plan.
Facilitate supply chain management services. Facilitate monthly, quarterly and
annual reporting on supply chain management related matters. Control over
safekeeping, utilisation and maintenance of all assets. Ensure proper
administration of sourcing and evaluation of quotations. Capture goods and
78
services on the system (LOGIS, etc). Handle queries from internal and external
clients relating to supply chain matters. Render general office support services.
Supervise, motivate and develop staff through individual performance agreements.
Provide assistance in the development and / or review of the operational plan.
Compile various submissions / memoranda and responses. Attend to queries from
Internal Audit. Administer leave forms / attend to queries. Make travel / conference
bookings and confirmations. Provide secretariat services. Provide records keeping.
Checking draft minutes for accuracy against recording or notes. Administer assets.
Maintain asset register. Liaise with asset unit during asset verification. Manage
outgoing and on–going assets. Allocate equipment to officials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Vuuren Tel: (043) 701 8127 or Ms AC Kili Tel: (043) 701 8186
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Ocean
Terrace, Corner of Coutts and Moore Street, Block H, Quigney, East London, 5201
or by email to Post119@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/104 : JUNIOR EXAMINER (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/103) (10 POSTS)
Directorate: Examination, Execution, And Deeds Training Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Law / National Diploma Deeds Registration
Law / Buris / B Proc / LLB or relevant equivalent qualification. No experience
required. Knowledge deeds registration processes and procedures. Interpretation
of statutes. Examination of Deeds. Property Law. Computer literacy skills.
Communication skills. Organising skills. Problem solving. Interpersonal skills. Time
Management. Interpretation skills. Numerical skills.
DUTIES : Prepare deeds for examination. Link batches, endorse deeds, insert fees and
complete all the endorsements. Verify registration information against data
information. Complete fee endorsement, Examine deeds and document. Check the
correctness of the drafting of deeds. Raise notes referring to the relevant authority.
Check compliance of notes on re-lodged deeds and remove notes if complied.
Attend to rectification of office errors. File updated acts, manuals and circulars.
Complete notification form / caveat endorsement for other sections (diagram, etc.).
Verify registration information. Check and interpret interdicts, and record details
thereof. Check and interpret sectional titles files. Raise queries if non complied and
endorse deeds. Consult with clients relating to deeds and documents. Discuss
notes with Conveyancers and provide guidance. Check the deeds for compliance
and remove notes. Check and interpret township files, general plan and ensure
that appropriate title conditions/servitudes are brought forward. Distribution of
deeds and documents. Count, balance deeds with lodgments / DOTS slip and scan
deeds. Sort and Distribute deeds according to transactions and batches to
Examiners. Distribute assignment slips to examiner. Record townships, sectional
schemes, rosters, corrective maintenance and expedited deeds.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LR Maloka / Mr HP Nkwinika Tel: (011) 843 8338 / 8314
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Registrar of Deeds: at 28 Harrison Street, Marshalltown 2107, Johannesburg, 2001
or apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured and White Males and Coloured and Indian Females
and Persons with disabilities.
POST 22/105 : FINANCE CLERK (SUPERVISOR) (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/105)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Deeds Registry: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate or relevant equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years of experience
in Financial Environment required. Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate
financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Services financial
legislations procedures and Treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR,
PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems
(PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc). Planning and organisation skills. Computer operating
skills. Language. Good verbal and written Communication skills. Basic numeracy
skills. Flexibility. Interpersonal relations. Teamwork. Ability to perform routine
tasks. Ability to operate office equipment. Accuracy. Aptitude of figures.
Willingness to work additional hours as and when required.
DUTIES : Supervise and render financial accounting transactions. Receive and allocate
invoices. Verify invoices for correctness, verification and approval (internal control).
Verify processing of invoices (e.g. capturing of payments). Supervise filing of all
79
documents. Supervise collection of cash. Supervise and perform salary
administration support services. Receive and allocate salary advices. Process and
ensure the processing of salary advices (e.g. check advices for correctness,
capture salaries, bonuses, salary adjustments, capture all deductions etc).
Supervise the filing of all documents. Supervise and perform bookkeeping support
services. Verify all financial transactions captured. Clear suspense accounts.
Record debtors and creditors. Verify and process the processing of electronic
banking transactions. Compile journals and verify the compilation of journals.
Render a budget support service. Verify information collected from budget holders.
Compare and verify the comparison of expenditure against budget. Identify
variances and verify the identification of variances. Verify the capturing, allocations
virements on budgets. Supervise the distribution of documents with regard to the
budget. Supervise the filing of all documents. Supervise the receipt and capturing
of cash payments. Supervise human resources / staff. Allocate and ensure quality
of work. Personnel development. Assess staff performance. Apply discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Mthembu or Mr S Mtshali Tel: (033) 355 6811 / 6812
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of the
Registrar of Deeds: Pietermaritzburg at 300 Pietermaritzburg Street,
Pietermaritzburg, 3201 or apply by accessing Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/106 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/116)
Directorate: Financial And Supply Chain Management Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal (Pietermaritzburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate or related equivalent qualification. Job related knowledge: Basic
knowledge of supply chain duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
operate a computer and collecting statistics. Basic knowledge and understanding
of legislative framework governing the Public Service. Basic knowledge of work
procedures in terms of the working environment. Job related skills: Planning and
organisation. Computer literacy. Communication (verbal and written). Interpersonal
relations. Ability to work within a team.
DUTIES : Render asset management clerical support. Compile and maintain records (e.g.
asset records / databases). Check and issue furniture, equipment and accessories
to components and individuals. Identify redundant, non-serviceable and obsolete
equipment for disposal. Verify asset register. Render demand and acquisition
clerical support. Update and maintain a supplier (including contractors) database.
Register suppliers on LOGIS or similar system. Request and receive quotations.
Capture specification on the electronic purchasing system. Place orders. Issue and
receive bid documents. Provide secretariat or logistical support during the bid
consideration and contracts process. Compile draft documents as required.
Render logistical support services. Place orders for goods. Receive and verify
goods from suppliers. Capture goods in registers databases. Receive request for
goods from end users. Issue goods to end users. Maintain goods register. Update
and maintain register of suppliers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Mathonsi Tel: (033) 264 9500
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 1st Floor,
270 Jabu Ndlovu Street (formerly known as Loop Street), Pietermaritzburg, 3200
or by email to Post116@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/107 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/117)
Directorate: Operational Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate or relevant equivalent qualification. Job related skills: Good
communication (verbal and written). Planning and organisation. Computer literacy.
Interpersonal relations. Ability to work within a team.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and statistics.
Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send facsimiles.
Distribute documents / packages to various stakeholders as required. Keep and
maintain the filling system for the component. Type letters and / or other
correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing
document register of the component. Taking and drafting of minutes. Provide
supply chain clerical support services within the component. Liaise with internal
80
and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain
quotations and complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office
items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register of
the component. Provide personnel administration clerical support services within
the component. Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance register of
the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation. Provide financial
administration support services in the component. Capture and update expenditure
in the component. Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials
and submit to manager for approval. Handle telephone accounts and petty cash
for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PS Gininda Tel: (013) 754 8027
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 17 Van
Rensburg Street, 7th Floor Bateleur Building, Mbombela, 1200 or by email to
Post117@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 22/108 : FINANCE CLERK (REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/120)
Directorate: Financial And Supply Chain Management Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job related knowledge: Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate a computer and collate
financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial
legislations procedures and Treasury Regulations (Public Finance Management
Act, Division of Revenue Act, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, Financial Manual). Knowledge of
basic financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS, etc). Job related skills:
Planning and organisational. Computer literacy. Communication (verbal and
written). Basic numeracy.
DUTIES : Render financial accounting transactions. Receive invoices. Check invoices for
correctness, verification and approval (internal control). Process invoices (e.g.
capture payments). Filing of all documents. Collection of cash. Perform salary
administration support services. Receive salary advices. Process advices (e.g.
check advices for correctness, capture salaries, bonuses, salary adjustments,
capture all deductions etc). File all documents. Perform bookkeeping support
services. Capture all financial transactions. Clear suspense accounts. Record
debtors and creditors. Process electronic banking transactions. Compile journals.
Monitor and follow up on debtor accounts. Register new debts. Follow up on debt
related submissions (State Attorney cases etc). Send statements to debtors
monthly either by post or by email. Render a budget support service. Collect
information from budget holders. Compare expenditure against budget. Identify
variances. Capture, allocate virements on the budgets. Distribute documents
regarding the budget. File all documents. Receive and capture cash payments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Vuuren Tel: (043) 701 8127 or Ms AC Kili Tel: (043) 701 8186
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Ocean
Terrace, Corner of Coutts and Moore Street, Block H, Quigney, East London, 5201
or by email to Post120@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
81
ANNEXURE K
SOUTH AFRICAN POLICE SERVICE
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 Form (2021 version), obtainable from
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp , which must be accompanied with
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. The post particulars and reference number of
the post you are applying for, must be correctly specified on the application form.
Please complete a separate application form for each post you wish to apply for. It
is the responsibility of the applicants to submit applications timeously to the correct
physical address as provided in the advertisement. Please note that applications
submitted to an incorrect physical address will not be considered. Late applications
will not be accepted or considered. Short-listed candidates will be required to
produce originals of their Identity Document (ID), Senior Certificate and all
educational qualifications obtained, service certificates from previous employers
stating the occupation and motor vehicle driver’s license, before the interview.
Qualifications and driver’s licences submitted will be subjected to verification with
the relevant institutions. Applicants must have no previous criminal convictions or
pending criminal/ departmental cases and shall allow their fingerprints to be taken
and background enquiries to be made. Short-listed candidates may be subjected
to a full security clearance process before or during any stage of employment.
Short-listed candidates will be subjected to a vetting process which will include
security screening, fingerprint screening, reference checking and verification of
address, where necessary. All short-listed candidates will be expected to undergo
a personal interview and shall undertake two pre-entry assessments, (a) a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and
generic requirements, as well as (b) an integrity assessment (ethical
conduct).Short-listed candidates for appointments to certain identified posts will be
vetted in terms of the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and Related Matters)
Amendment Act, 2007 (Act No 32 of 2007) and the Children’s Act, 2005 (Act No
38 of 2005). A candidate whose particulars appear in either the National Register
for Sex Offenders or Part B of the Child Protection Register, will be disqualified
from appointment. Candidates are expected to disclose if he/ she is a respondent
in an interim or final protection order in terms of the Domestic Violence Act, 1998
(Act no 116 of 1998) or Protection from Harassment Act, 2011 (Act No 17 of 2011),
and may be disqualified from appointment. The Criminal Law (Forensic
Procedures) Amendment Act, Act 37 of 2013 requires that all new appointments in
the South African Police Service as from 31 January 2015 provide a buccal (inside
cheek) sample to determine their forensic DNA profile. The forensic DNA profile
derived from the sample will be loaded to the Elimination Index of the National
Forensic DNA Database. Appointments will be made in terms of the Public Service
Act, 1994 (Act No 103 of 1994) as applicable to the post environment. Persons
who retired from the Public Service by taking a severance package, early
retirement or medical retirement, as well as persons with previous convictions, are
excluded. The South African Police Service is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer and it is the intention to promote representivity in the Public
Service through the filling of these posts. Persons whose transfer/ appointment will
promote representivity will therefore receive preference. The South African Police
Service is under no obligation to fill a post after the advertisement thereof.
Correspondence will be conducted with successful candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/109 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NR: FMS 03/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Expenditure Management
SALARY : R338 106. per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
82
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Receiving and checking of interdepartmental invoices received via SharePoint in
SAPS. Creating a bundle on the Polfin System and ensure the claims are captured
and balance before rerouting of the claims. Review all captured interdepartmental
claims / invoices and create the payment schedules. Perform the electronic
archiving of all processed claims and payments made by the section Expenditure
Management. Facilitate the archiving of all interdepartmental claims / invoices
paid. Assist and obtain all related source documents on request from the Auditor
General, questions in Parliament, Internal Audit and SAPS Officials. Respond to
all enquiries received from internal and external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/110 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NR: FMS 04/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Expenditure Management
SALARY : R338 106. per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Verification of all registered claims on the electronic claim register. Verification of
all payment schedule for miscellaneous claims and foreign journey claims.
Verification of all rejected payment for miscellaneous claims and foreign journey
claims. Weekly reporting on all claims paid in cash by Division and the Province
exceeded R2000 with approval by the Section Head. Assisting with all weekly,
monthly, quarterly, and annual report to Management. Assist and obtain all related
source documents on request from the Auditor General, questions in Parliament,
Internal Audit and SAPS Officials. Populate the SharePoint library with all approved
designations per Province per Division. Perform the electronic archiving of all
processed claims and payments made by the Sub - Section Claims Section.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at Tel No: (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/111 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NR: FMS 05/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Financial Accounting
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
83
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Maintain fruitless & wasteful and loss registers daily. Perform the proper finalization
of financial losses as received i.e. state money, fruitless and wasteful expenditure
and face value forms and ensure adherence to the norms and standards stipulated
in line with the loss management process. Manage the Human, Physical and
Financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at Tel No: (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/112 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NR: FMS 06/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Financial Accounting
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle, will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Ensures daily bank reconciliation is performed on the financial system for all
commercial banks and Pay Master General account, all revenue received is paid
over to the national revenue fund monthly, process foreign payments on Safety
Web System and refunds. Manage the Human, Physical and Financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at Tel No: (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/113 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NR: FMS 07/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Financial Auxiliary Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
84
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Assist with the recovery of liquid debt from serving employees, former employees,
civilians and other government departments.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at Tel No: (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/114 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: FMS 08/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Salary Management and Maintenance
SALARY : R338 106. per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle, will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Supervision and verification of Maintenance Orders, Knowledge of ledgers and
journals. Supervision and administration of Union membership and Insurance
cancelations on the system. Knowledge of third-party processing and cost
statements.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/115 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NR: FMS 09/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Salary Management and Maintenance
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Supervision and perusal of payments for Arbitration Awards, public holidays, salary
adjustments, leave without pay and un-used leave. Knowledge of reinstatement
and suspensions.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
85
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/116 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO: AUX/01/2026) (1 POST)
SAPS Auxiliary Services: Support Services: FMS
Component Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R338 106. per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirements: Applicants must display competency in the core functions
of the post. Be proficient in at least English and one other official language. Be a
citizen of the Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be
furnished on the day of the interview. Be in possession of a Grade 12 / Senior
Certificate / NCV Level 4, or equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized
by SAQA). With at least four years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable
three (3) year Diploma / Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA)
as well as relevant training courses in the field of the post will serve as an added
advantage. A valid driver’s license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an
added advantage. Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant
prescripts applicable to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication
skills. General computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point,
MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Strong interpersonal skills. Report writing.
Presentation skills, problem solving, sound planning, Organizing and
administration skills, strong administration skills, strong analytical skills and
Facilitation skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To administer and maintain all financial functions expenditure, budget, payroll,
telephone and MMS, SMS claims for Auxiliary Services. To effectively monitor
expenditure versus allocation within the component budget. Administer and
monitor all financial claims and supplier payments. Budget reports. Shifting of
funds. Compiling EWS. Creating of financial authorities. Vehicle claims.
Administration of telephone and cell phones account. Capturing of overtime.
Payroll certificate. Changing of banking details. Ensure personnel conform to the
general discipline and adherence to the Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Captain MN Maswanganyi Tel No (012) 393 1023 / 4967 / 1453
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag
X94, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical Address: 231 Pretorius Street, Wachthuis
Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR E-Mail address: MadavhaA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/117 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: CS 03/06/2026 (X1 POST)
Section Corporate Support: Finance and Administration
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant
prescripts applicable to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication
skills. General Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point,
MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills.
Strong interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving,
Sound Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Supervise budget management for Corporate Services. Supervise the creation of
financial authorisations. Provide Early Warning Reports on monthly basis. Ensure
correct vesting of expenditure. Supervise the missions accounts. Forward requests
concerning Parliamentary matters for Corporate Services. Provide weekly budget
reports. Manage human and physical resources. Ensure compliance with the
Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Acts & Policies.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
86
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to TshabalalaBeauty@saps.gov.za
POST 22/118 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO: VP E4/2026)
Support Services: Financial and Administration Services
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Midcity Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer processes pertaining to standing advances. Administer and capturing
of domestic and foreign claims on the Polfin system. Administer processes
pertaining to memorandums and itineraries. Administer and capturing of advance
requests on the Polfin system.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/119 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO: VP E5/2026)
Support Services: Financial and Administration Services
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Midcity Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer telecommunication for the Division. Supervise and administer the
distribution of cellular phones and 3G accounts from the converged portal.
Supervise and administer the payment of accounts. Supervise and administer
certification of cell phone accounts. Supervise and administer the payments and
certification of 3G accounts.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/120 : FINANCE CLERK SUPERVISOR
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation: Provincial level
Component: Corporate Support Services
Section: Finance and Administration Services
87
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Ref No: DPCI/EC/26/2026: East London
Ref No: DPCI/KZN/27/2026: Port Shepstone
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; Be in
possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Administer all telephone and cell phone accounts and register new users on TMS
and issue pin codes; Administer all financial claims, payments and advances;
Administer payroll; Administer applications for allowances (housing, overtime,
nightshift and public holidays); Administer incoming and outgoing
correspondences; Administer IRP5 related enquiries; Overseeing conformation to-
and applying standards for information security, as prescribed by the Minimum
Information Security Standards (MISS) and Protection of Information Act;
Supervise and exercise control over human, physical and financial resources
allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRES : DPCI: Eastern Cape: Enquiries can be directed to: Lieutenant Colonel Batyi and
Captain Poswa Telephone number: (043) 709 0524 / 0525 / 0527
DPCI: Kwazulu Natal: Enquiries can be directed to: Colonel Zikhali and Lieutenant
Colonel Phungula Telephone number: (031) 325 4913
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
DPCI: Eastern Cape: Hand delivered or couriered to: Cnr Buxton and Oxford
Street, Old Allied Building, EAST LONDON Email address: PoswaN@saps.gov.za
and SobutyuN@saps.gov.za
DPCI: Kwazulu Natal: Hand delivered or couriered to: 15 Bram Fischer Road,
Servamus Building, DURBAN Email address: MoodleyP4@saps.gov.za
POST 22/121 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO: VP E3/2026)
Support Services: Supply Chain Management: Procurement Management
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R338 106. per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Midcity Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render an effective Supply Chain Management in terms of procurement. Provide
acquisition authorization for procurement applications according to the delegation.
Prepare files for presentation at the Resource Committee meetings. Compile,
register and conduct determination test. Update the Irregular Expenditure register.
Manage the analysis of the demand and planning of the provisioning and non-
provisioning stores. Co-ordinate the supplier database and nodal point. Co-
ordinate the rotation of suppliers from the CSD.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
88
POST 22/122 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: FMS 02/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Support Services
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Facilitate all acquisition related issues and monitor that it is done in a cost-effective
manner. Facilitate all demand related issues and monitor that all is done in a cost-
effective manner. Facilitate performance management functions within SCM.
Facilitate all resources allocated to the section in an effective and efficient manner.
Facilitate the implementation and maintenance of all National Policies regarding
Supply Chain Management. Facilitate inspections and evaluations (internally and
SCM Performance Management). Facilitate vehicle fleet management. Facilitate
SHE management within the Division. Facilitate movable government property
inspections and stocktaking processes.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/123 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: CS 02/06/2026 (X1 POST)
Section Corporate Support: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R338 106. per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant
prescripts applicable to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication
skills. General Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point,
MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills.
Strong interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving,
Sound Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer and coordinate stock taking, asset inspection and certification of assets
on the Provisioning Administration System (PAS). Administer and coordinate the
closing of vouchers on PAS. Administer and perform transfers on PAS from one
accounting store to another and between chief users. Administer and coordinate
disposals/complete the necessary source documents and print reports on PAS.
Administer and perform PAS functions when collecting provisioning store items.
Administer and complete source documents when performing PAS transaction on
the system.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
89
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to TshabalalaBeauty@saps.gov.za
POST 22/124 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK SUPERVISOR (CR14/06/2026) (1 POST)
Component: Crime Registrar
Crime Registrar: Support Services Section
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be
DUTIES : Administer and process procurement requisitions, including the recording,
capturing, monitoring, and tracking of procurement applications in accordance with
Supply Chain Management procedures. Coordinate the acquisition, receipt,
inspection, distribution, and control of equipment and stock, ensuring compliance
with organizational policies and inventory management requirements. Maintain
adequate stock levels through needs assessments, stock monitoring, inventory
control, and the accurate allocation of equipment and consumables to end users.
Process and monitor invoices, supplier payments, and procurement related
enquiries, ensuring timely and accurate financial administration. Maintain and
update procurement systems, supplier databases, procurement records, contract
information, inventory registers, and asset management records. Compile,
maintain, and submit procurement, inventory, supplier, and asset-related reports
and documentation. Administer effective record management, accountability of
assets and stock, and ensure compliance with procurement and supply chain
management policies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Col DB Mathebe / Lt Col B Sookraj / Captain TP Baloyi / W/O N Mahwai Tel No
(012) 360 1502 / 1524 / 1544
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag
X94, Pretoria,0001 OR Physical Address: No 463 Prieska Street, Erasmuskloof,
Pretoria,0001 OR E-Mail address: SookrajB@saps.gov.za/BaloyiPT@saps.gov.za
and MahwaiN@saps.gov.za
POST 22/125 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK SUPERVISOR
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation: Provincial level
Component: Corporate Support Services
Section: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Ref No: DPCI/EC/19/2026: East London
Ref No: DPCI/FS/20/2026: Bloemfontein
Ref No: DPCI/GP/21/2026: Germiston
Ref No: DPCI/KZN/22/2026: Durban
Ref No: DPCI/NW/23/2026: Klerksdorp
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; Be in
possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Monitor processes in relation to Supply Chain Management; Conduct a
provisioning logistical needs analysis to identify needs shortages on moveable /
immoveable property; Monitor and control the distribution of physical resources
90
and administer inventories; Coordinate vehicle fleet administration and
inspections; Manage day-to-day maintenance of buildings premises; Implement
SHE standards; Overseeing conformation to- and applying standards for
information security, as prescribed by the Minimum Information Security Standards
(MISS) and Protection of Information Act; Supervise and exercise control over
human, physical and financial resources allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRIES : DPCI: Eastern Cape: can be directed to: Lieutenant Colonel Batyi and Captain
Poswa Telephone number: (043) 709 0524 / 0525 / 0527
DPCI: Free State: Enquiries can be directed to: Lieutenant Colonel Vethezo and
Captain Mkumla Telephone number: 071 481 2510
DPCI: Gauteng: Enquiries can be directed to: Lieutenant Colonel Macinga and
Warrant Officer Kone Telephone number: (082) 778 3578 and (082) 449 2282
DPCI: Kwazulu Natal: Enquiries can be directed to: Colonel Zikhali and Lieutenant
Colonel Phungula Telephone number: (031) 325 4913
DPCI North West: Enquiries can be directed to: Lieutenant Colonel Mbulawa and
Captain Mokoena Telephone number: (018) 464 5316 / 5332
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
DPCI: Eastern Cape: Hand delivered or couriered to: Cnr Buxton and Oxford
Street, Old Allied Building, East London Email address: PoswaN@saps.gov.za and
SobutyuN@saps.gov.za
DPCI: Free State: Hand delivered or couriered to: Charlotte Maxeke Street/
Maitland Street, 46 ABSA Building, BLOEMFONTEIN Email address:
VethezoX@saps.gov.za and MkumlaU@saps.gov.za
DPCI: Gauteng: Hand delivered or couriered to: 165 Meyer Street, Benmare
Building, GERMISTON Email address: MacingaL@saps.gov.za
DPCI: Kwazulu Natal: Hand delivered or couriered to: 15 Bram Fischer Road,
Servamus Building, DURBAN Email address: MoodleyP4@saps.gov.za
DPCI North West: Hand delivered or couriered to: 51 Leask Street, 3rd floor,
Westend Building, KLERKSDORP Email address: MbulawaL@saps.gov.za
POST 22/126 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DPCI/FS/24/2026
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation: Provincial level
Component: Corporate Support Services: Limpopo
Section: Supply Chain Management: Procurement & Inventory Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; Be in
possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Administer the procurement and logistical support with the sub-section; Administer
the payment process of the services and or expendable items; Facilitate the
effective and efficient logistical provisioning and management of all types of
vehicles; Provide and facilitate the occupational safety and environmental matter;
Overseeing conformation to- and applying standards for information security, as
prescribed by the Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) and Protection
of Information Act; Supervise and exercise control over human, physical and
financial resources allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Colonel Seabi and Captain Machete Telephone number: (071)
481 3316 / (082) 580 4681
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
DPCI: LIMPOPO: Hand delivered or couriered to: 106 Hans van Rensburg Street,
Suite 02, 106 Empire Place, POLOKWANE Email address:
MacheteP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/127 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK SUPERVISOR: REF NO: RIM 01/06/2026 (X1 POST)
Risk & Integrity Management: Management Information & Support
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
91
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer procuring goods and services, processing orders, managing inventory,
maintaining accurate records, and reconciling invoices to ensure efficient business
operations, compile and consolidate the Demand Management Plan (DMP) and
Procurement Plan. Categorizing commodities and ensuring the availability of
funds. Conduct variance, market, and industry analysis. Review Demand
Management and Procurement Plan. Draft specifications/terms of reference for
goods and services. Track all movements of specifications and terms of reference
submissions. Assist in maintaining and coordinating effective and efficient state
asset and inventory control management. Maintain, control and coordinate the
acquisition management services within the Component. Maintain and control
distribution and utilization of physical resources.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to PretoriusK@saps.gov.za
POST 22/128 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DPCI/FS/25/2026
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation: Provincial level
Component: Corporate Support Services: Northern Cape
Section: Supply Chain Management: Fleet Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; Be in
possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Facilitate the effective and efficient logistical provisioning and management of all
types of vehicles; Perform random vehicle inspections and maintenance of the
register; Transportation of equipment vehicle to the garage for services or pairs;
Ensure certification of fuel transactions, Manage registration and renewal of
vehicle licenses; Register and de-register vehicles; Manage and ensure that SAPS
132B are completed and filled correctly; Manage and update vehicle asset register;
Overseeing conformation to- and applying standards for information security, as
prescribed by the Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) and Protection
of Information Act; Supervise and exercise control over human, physical and
financial resources allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Lieutenant Colonel Ntho and Captain Damons Telephone
number: (082) 779 8553 and (071) 481 3000
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
DPCI: NORTHERN CAPE: Hand delivered or couriered to: 36 Stockdale Street,
De-Beers Building (Cheapside) KIMBERLEY Email address:
DamonsM@saps.gov.za
POST 22/129 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: CS 01/06/2026 (X1
POST)
Section Corporate Support: Human Resource Management
92
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant
prescripts applicable to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication
skills. General Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point,
MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills.
Strong interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving,
Sound Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Capture all leave transactions on Persal. Monitor the average acceptable rate of
unscheduled absence. Conduct SAP 26 and Z8 inspections. Conduct Leave
Audits. Monitor 8 days consecutive leave. Administer and capture ill-health
retirement applications, Injury on Duty documents as well as temporary incapacity
leave. Monitor the reintegration of employees absent from work for 30 consecutive
days. Compile monthly and quarterly returns. Compile and submit PMR for the
Sub-Section: HRM.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to TshabalalaBeauty@saps.gov.za
POST 22/130 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO: VP E1/2026)
Support Services: Personnel Management.
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Midcity Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer the applications for transfers and service arrangements; Administer
long-term acting allowances; Administer occupational translations; Administration
of Data Integrity and update personnel placement and records; Administration of
external and internal appointments, post promotions and grade progression.
Administration of Recognition of Improved Qualifications.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/131 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO: VP E2/2026)
Support Services: Personnel Management
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Midcity Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia
93
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administration of general leave and Leave audits. Administration of Temporary
Incapacity Leave, Full functional assessment applications, ill health retirement and
Injury on Duty. Administration of Service Termination.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/132 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR (POST NUMBER: PPS02/2026) (1x
Post)
Human Resource Management
Component: Presidential Protection Service
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Western Cape: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Be a citizen of the
Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day
of the interview. At least four (4) years’ experience in the field of the post. An
applicable three (3) year Diploma / Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized
by SAQA) as well as relevant training courses in the field of the post will serve as
an added advantage. A valid driver’s license for at least a light motor vehicle will
serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge
of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public Service. Good verbal and written
communication skills. General Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting independently,
professionally, accountable and with credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation
Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning, Organizing and Administration skills.
Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure
and extended hours.
DUTIES : Core Functions: Monitor and administrate all life Cycle Management functions.
Monitor and administrate all HRU functions. Monitor and administrate all HRPA
functions. Monitor and administrate all Employee Relations. Manage and exercise
control over human, physical and financial resources allocated to the post.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Kamana / Captain Teyise / AC Sofika/AC Sylvester on Tel No:
021 467 6485/6499
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape (Cape Town): Applications must be posted / hand delivered to the
following address:121 Garmour House Plein Street Cape Town 8001 and e-mailed
to: KamanaEN@saps.gov.za / TeyiseS@saps.gov.za / cpt-ppu@saps.gov.za
POST 22/133 : HUMAN RESOURCES CLERK SUPERVISOR REFNO: IA26/06/2026 (1 POST)
Component Internal Audit
Human Resource Management: Internal Audit
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
94
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added. Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General Computer literacy
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong interpersonal
skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning,
Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills.
Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer and manage employee leave, transfers, promotions, service
terminations, discharges, retirements, and pension-related matters. Process and
coordinate applications relating to medical, disability, stress, depression, alcohol,
and death boards in accordance with organisational policies and procedures.
Maintain, update, and manage personnel records and databases, including the
capturing, verification, and submission of employee information on relevant HR
systems. Compile, maintain, and submit HR statistics, personnel reports,
employment equity reports, performance management reports, and other required
administrative reports. Administer and monitor employee performance
management processes, including Performance Enhancement Process (PEP)
compliance, progress reporting, and performance-related documentation. Process
and administer employee incentives, rewards, pay progression, and salary-related
enquiries. Register, coordinate, process, and finalise employee grievance and
disciplinary matters in accordance with applicable policies and procedures. Ensure
effective personnel administration, record management, regulatory compliance,
and the implementation of Human Resource Policies and Practice.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Mukhesi / Captain A Dhlamini / Warrant Officer Selele on 063
697 2598/ 063 697 3155 / 082 569 8523.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Physical Address: Reception:
SAPS National Head Office: 231 Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building.Email:
RatshiedanaS@saps.gov.za and DhlaminiA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/134 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DPCI/HO/16/2026
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation: Head Office
Component: Governance and Corporate Services
Section: Service Termination & Absenteeism Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; *Be
in possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Facilitate service absence and terminations within the DPCI; Ensure compliance
with applicable National Instructions on service termination and absenteeism
management; Monitor applications for temporary incapacity leave, IOD’s and other
related administration functions; Overseeing conformation to- and applying
standards for information security, as prescribed by the Minimum Information
Security Standards (MISS) and Protection of Information Act; Supervise and
exercise control over human, physical and financial resources allocated to the
environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Brigadier Mogoma Monyela and Lieutenant Colonel BK
Mhlahlo: Tel number: (012) 846 4067/4110
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
Head Office Level: Hand delivery: Main Security gate at 1 Cresswell Road, Promat
Building, SILVERTON, Email address: dpcivacancies@saps.gov.za
POST 22/135 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR DPCI/HO/17/2026
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation
Component: Governance and Corporate Services
Section: Human Resource Development
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
95
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; *Be
in possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Assist in administering the implementation of capacity development initiatives i.t.o
annual performance plan and the annual operational plan of the DPCI; Assist in
administering and coordinating SAPS bursary programme, internship programme
and data training statistics and reports quarterly; Capturing of training related
results on TAS; Overseeing conformation to- and applying standards for
information security, as prescribed by the Minimum Information Security Standards
(MISS) and Protection of Information Act; Supervise and exercise control over
human, physical and financial resources allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Brigadier Mogoma Monyela and Lieutenant Colonel BK
Mhlahlo: Tel number: (012) 846 4067/4110
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
Head Office Level: Hand delivery: Main Security gate at 1 Cresswell Road, Promat
Building, SILVERTON, Email address: dpcivacancies@saps.gov.za
POST 22/136 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation: Provincial level
Component: Corporate Support Services
Section: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Ref No: DPCI/GP/29/2026: Germiston
Ref No: DPCI/LIM/30/2026: Musina
Ref No: DPCI/MP/31/2026: Nelspruit
Ref No: DPCI/NC/32/2026: Kimberley
Ref No: DPCI/NW/33/2026: Klerksdorp
Ref No: DPCI/WC/34/2026: Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; Be in
possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Facilitate service absence and terminations within the province; Ensure
compliance with regard to National Instructions on service termination and
absenteeism management; Monitor applications for temporary incapacity leave;
Coordinate all recruitment related matters, the appointment of employees,
transfers & related matters; Administer medical board and injuries on duty.
Coordinate all the medals awards related matters; Facilitate Training and related
matters; Facilitate discipline management and grievance related matters;
Overseeing conformation to- and applying standards for information security, as
prescribed by the Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) and Protection
of Information Act; Supervise and exercise control over human, physical and
financial resources allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRIES : DPCI: Gauteng: Enquiries can be directed to: Lieutenant Colonel Macinga and
Warrant Officer Kone Telephone number: (082) 778 3578 and (082) 449 2282
DPCI: Limpopo: Enquiries can be directed to: Colonel Seabi and Captain Machete
Telephone number: (071) 481 3316 / (082) 580 4681
DPCI: Mpumalanga: Enquiries can be directed to: Lieutenant Colonel Shongwe
and Captain Maseko Telephone number: (013) 759 1366 / 1365 / 1377
DPCI: Northern Cape: Enquiries can be directed to: Lieutenant Colonel Ntho and
Captain Damons Telephone number: (082) 779 8553 and (071) 481 3000
DPCI North West: Enquiries can be directed to: Lieutenant Colonel Mbulawa and
Captain Mokoena Telephone number: (018) 464 5316 / 5332
DPCI: Western Cape: Enquiries can be directed to: Captain Xhego and Warrant
Officer Matlou Telephone number: (071) 481 3252 and (071) 481
96
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
DPCI: Gauteng: Hand delivered or couriered to: 165 Meyer Street, Benmare
Building, GERMISTON Email address: MacingaL@saps.gov.za
DPCI: Limpopo: Hand delivered or couriered to:106 Hans van Rensburg Street,
Suite 02, 106 Empire Place, POLOKWANE MacheteP@saps.gov.za
DPCI: Mpumalanga: Hand delivered or couriered to: 17 Henshall Street, Stats
House, NELSPRUIT Email address: ShongweS@saps.gov.za
DPCI: Northern Cape: Hand delivered or couriered to: 36 Stockdale Street, De-
Beers Building (Cheapside) KIMBERLEY Email address: DamonsM@saps.gov.za
DPCI North West: Hand delivered or couriered to:51 Leask Street, 3rd floor,
Westend Building, KLERKSDORP Email address: MbulawaL@saps.gov.za
DPCI: Western Cape: Hand delivered or couriered to: 3 AJ West Street, Old SARS
Building, BELLVILLE Email address: Sibelekwanas@saps.gov.za
POST 22/137 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO: VP E6/2026)
Flash: Firearm Compliance and Enforcement: MIC
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Veritas Building, Pretoria Central
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Compile, verify and consolidate weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual
performance reports for the Section in terms of the Annual Operational Plan and
Annual Performance Plan. Compile and ensure the timely submission of
performance report to the Component: MIC. Monitor AGSA reports, Internal Audit
findings and Parliamentary questions. Liaise will all Provincial Offices regarding
performance reporting. Compile information and create presentations for the
section.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/138 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO: VP E7/2026)
Flash: Second-Hand Goods: Liquor and Second-Hand Goods Service
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : MIC Veritas Building, Pretoria Central
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
97
DUTIES : Compile, verify and consolidate weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual
performance reports for the Section in terms of the Annual Operational Plan and
Annual Performance Plan. Compile and ensure the timely submission of
performance report to the Component: MIC. Monitor AGSA reports, Internal Audit
findings and Parliamentary questions. Liaise will all Provincial Offices regarding
performance reporting. Compile information and create presentations for the
section
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/139 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO: VP E8/2026)
Rapid Rail Police: Mabopane Corridor
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Mabopane
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render administrative duties pertaining to Human Resource related functions.
Render administrative duties pertaining to Human Resource Utilisation related
functions. Comply with service standards.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/140 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK SUPERVISOR (POST NUMBER: PPS01/2026)
Component: Presidential Protection Service
Office of the Component Head
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : HQ: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Be a citizen of the
Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day
of the interview At least four (4) years’ experience in the field of the post. An
applicable three (3) year Diploma / Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized
by SAQA) as well as relevant training courses in the field of the post will serve as
an added advantage. A valid driver’s license for at least a light motor vehicle will
serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge
of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public Service. Good verbal and written
communication skills. *General Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting independently,
professionally, accountable and with credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation
Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning, Organizing and Administration skills,
Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure
and extended hours.
DUTIES : Core Functions: Render Administrative Support Functions. Administer
correspondence and files of the Component Head: PPS. Uphold the confidentiality
of all classified documents as per the MISS. Supervise the coordination of all
98
internal and external meetings for the Component Head. Exercise control over
human, physical and financial resources allocated to the post.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Kganyago Tel No: 012 400 5310/ Warrant Officer Sithebe on
012 400 5186/ Warrant Officer Mnyalatyho 012 400 5105/ AC Sekwape 012 400
5137/ AC Modiha/ HRC Sibande 012 400 5147.
APPLICATIONS : HQ: Pretoria: Applications can be posted / hand delivered to the following address:
Private Bag x 272 Pretoria 0002 or 3 Troye and Park Street, Protection Service,
Maupa Naga Building Sunnyside 0002 or e-mailed to: Kganyagonn@saps.gov.za
/ SithebeS@saps.gov.za / MnyalatyhoLL@saps.gov.za /
SekwapeND@saps.gov.za / SibandeK@saps.gov.za / ModihaI@saps.gov.za
POST 22/141 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NR: FMS 01/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Management Information and Strategic Planning:)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Supervise the strategic planning and performance reporting process for the
Division. Facilitate the service delivery improvement plan. Facilitate performance
assessments for SMS. Facilitate service complaints within the Division. Supervise
information support of the Division. Supervision of human, financial and physical
resources of the Sub-Section: MISP.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/142 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: ESIR 01/06/2026
Interpol NCB Liaison Officers Desk
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Supervise, ensure, monitor and render effective and efficient HR, administrative
and financial support and services to SAPS Liaison Officers (LO) posted abroad
and members at Interpol NCB Pretoria, both internally and externally. Ensure,
administer and monitor the compilation and effective implementation of all HR,
Administrative and Financial tasks and duties concerning the LO’s. Administer,
ensure and certify fixed telephone/cell phone lines accounts and processing of
claims. Supervise and monitor human, physical and financial resources allocated.
Perform standby / Ad hoc duties when necessary.
99
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to MashiloaneK@saps.gov.za
POST 22/143 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: ESIR 02/06/2026
Interpol NCB, SARPCCO/AFRIPOL/SADC Desk
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Supervise, ensure, monitor and render effective and efficient administrative
support and services to African Regional Countries and Interpol NCB Pretoria, both
internally and externally. Assist, administer and ensure administrative support to
all SARPCCO/AFRIPOL/SADC Countries, including visits to and from these
countries. Render administrative support with the organising, participating and
during conferences and meetings. Supervise and monitor human, physical and
financial resources allocated. Perform standby / Ad hoc duties when necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to MashiloaneK@saps.gov.za
POST 22/144 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR POST NUMBER: TMS 5/2026
Section: Data Centre Management and Hosting Services
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) in IT, Computer Science
or Informatics. as well as relevant training courses in the field of the post will serve
as an added advantage. A valid driver’s license for at least a light motor vehicle
will serve as an added advantage. 3-4 years’ Previous experience in Data Centre
environments, Server Virtualization, Network Management, Backup and Disaster
Recovery testing experience is highly beneficial. Program Management
experience. Certifications in ITIL, Microsoft Products, Oracle Technology, IBM
Mainframe Exposure, IP networking, system administration, Disaster Recovery
including backup & Restores, Replication & Archiving procedures, or cloud
computing (e.g., AWS, Azure) are highly advantageous. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public Service.
Good verbal and written communication skills. General Computer literacy (MS
Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong interpersonal
skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning,
100
Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills.
Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Server Administration. Oversee high availability, disaster recovery (DR), and
business continuity (BC) planning for mission-critical systems. Govern Capacity
Planning, performance management, and resource optimisation across hosting
platforms. Oversee the evolution towards modern hosting environments (e.g.,
cloud, containerisation, software-defined infrastructure)
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets;Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/145 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR POST NUMBER: TMS 6/2026
Section: Converged Communications
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to ensure the effective and efficient delivery of
Converged Communication Services. Assist with the consolidation and
coordination of user requirements. Compile, maintain, and monitor the Demand
Plan including associated equipment, to support Planning and resource allocation
within the Converged Communication Services environment. Administer and
monitor the integrity, accuracy, and completeness of assets as per in accordance
with the organisational standards and systems data within Converged
Communication Services Manage utilization of all resources allocated to the
immediate post environment. Perform requisition and distribution of stock from
provisioning stores. Receive equipment/stock and process allocation
administration. Issue and exercise consumable equipment/stock control.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets;Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/146 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR POST NUMBER: TMS 7/2026
Section: Supply Chain Management – Fleet Management
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post.
qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4) years’
experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma / Degree
(NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s license for
101
at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage. Tertiary
qualification and developmental courses i.e. SCM learning programme Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General Computer literacy
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong interpersonal
skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning,
Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills.
Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administration of vehicle management in compliance to prescripts. Administer the
procurement of vehicles from demand management till disposal management.
Administration of registration, licencing, maintenance and deregistration of vehicle
fleet management. Administration of SAPS 132(B) and SAPS 132(G), ensuring
filling of documents is properly maintained. Conduct weekly inspection of vehicles,
administer that VRC meetings are held monthly and returns are submitted
timeously.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets;Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/147 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR POST NUMBER: TMS 8/2026
Section: Supply Chain Management – Demand Management
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage. Be
proficient in at least two official languages, of which one must be English. Tertiary
qualification and developmental courses i.e. SCM learning programme (NQF 5)
may serve as an advantage. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of
relevant prescripts applicable to the Public Service. Good verbal and written
communication skills. General Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation
Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning, Organising and Administration skills,
Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure
and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer the needs analysis and assessment of the Division and other costs
Centers administer the demand planning and forecasting by compiling the demand
plans , conduct market and industry research and identify risks. Linking the needs
to the budget by budgeting and cost estimations Assisting with drafting of
specifications in line with SCM policies Compile and updating of procurement plan
sourcing of quotations. Administer stakeholder coordination by educating clients
and manage projects expectations
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets;Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/148 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR POST NUMBER: TMS 9/2026
Section: Resources and Administration Systems Management
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
102
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide user system support and information requests for Cooperate Management
system. Explore, analyse and recommend solutions according to the latest
available technology trends. Perform and assist with first line user support for
respective Divisions and Components in terms of IS/ICT. Conduct user
training/workshop on enhanced functionality on Cooperate Management systems.
Compile weekly, monthly and quarterly reports for the Sub-section. Assist in
general administration in the subsection for all resources.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets; Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/149 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DET 01/2026 (1 POST)
Division Detective Services
Human Resource Management and Utilization
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added. Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General Computer literacy
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong interpersonal
skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning,
Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills.
Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To facilitate and coordinate all Human Resource Utilization functions within the
Division Facilitate and coordinate Human Resource Planning, Performance
Management Systems within the Division, Diversity and Transformation
Management prescripts, Labour Relations related functions within the Division and
coordinate all administrative functions within the section.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel WB Chauke / Captain S Ntuli / PPO Kgwedi at (012) 393 1633/
4478 / 1277.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag x
302 Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 237
Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building. Email: Detectiverecruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/150 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DET 02/2026 (1 POST)
Division Detective Services
Management Information and Strategic Planning.
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
103
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General Computer literacy
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong interpersonal
skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning,
Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills.
Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Coordinate feedback on the Performance Assessment for the National
Commissioner, Divisional Commissioner, Provincial Commissioners and Deputy
Provincial Commissioners: Crime Detection Administer recommendations and
requests by the Portfolio Committee on Police (PCoP) and Budget Review and
Recommendation Report (BRRR) Administer all Questions in Parliament and
Media enquiries Administer Auditor General of South Africa and Internal Audit
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel WB Chauke / Captain S Ntuli / PPO Kgwedi at (012) 393 1633/
4478 / 1277.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag x
302 Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 237
Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building.Email: Detectiverecruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/151 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DET 03/2026 (1 POST)
Division Detective Services
Management Information and Support: Component: FCS
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General computer literacy
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong interpersonal
skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning,
Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills.
Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Facilitate strategic planning documents for the Component. Facilitate Annual
Report for the Component. Facilitate of Auditor General of South Africa (AGSA)
Audit and Internal Audit functions. Facilitate the Performance Assessments for the
Component Head and Section Heads. Facilitate the support to Parliamentary
matters. Rendering generic administrative related functions of the Component.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel WB Chauke / Captain S Ntuli / PPO Kgwedi at (012) 393 1633/
4478 / 1277.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag x
302 Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 237
Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building. Email: Detectiverecruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/152 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DET 04/2026 (1 POST)
Division Detective Services
Management Information and Support: Component: SVC
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
104
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General Computer literacy
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong interpersonal
skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning,
Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills.
Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Co-ordination and execution of the SVC Investigation and co-ordination: Crime
Information Analysis Compile and consolidate returns on the performance of the
Provinces within SVC component Monitor and ensure data integrity of all
mainframe systems at the Detective units on station level nationally Co-ordinate
re-registration of other officers on Crime Administration System and Global Access
Control System for the SVC Component, Interventions, Compile and consolidate
responses to question in parliament
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel WB Chauke / Captain S Ntuli / PPO Kgwedi at Tel No: (012)
393 1633/ 4478 / 1277.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag x
302 Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 237
Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building. Email: Detectiverecruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/153 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK SUPERVISOR (POST NUMBER: SM01/06/2026)
Component: Strategic Management
Monitoring Reporting Systems
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or equivalent
qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4) years’
experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma / Degree
(NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s license for
at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General Computer literacy
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong interpersonal
skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning,
Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills.
Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Core Functions: Develop, review and maintain Learning Material related to
Organisational Performance Management Systems. Facilitate the process for
request for services or system enhancement. Develop Business Request for
Services upon request from stakeholders. Perform testing on request for services
or system enhancements. Coordinate maintenance on the Organisational
Performance Management Systems. Develop and maintain a database containing
User Profile. Facilitate all administration related tasks in respect of Organisation
Performance System Work Session. Prepare meeting agendas, attendance
registers and minute-taking documentation. Coordinate logistical arrangements for
meetings, preparation sessions and other related engagements. Monitor incoming
and outgoing correspondence and emails on managed systems. Implement a
reminder system to track email requests for enquiries, services or enhancements.
Provide coordination support for personnel-related administrative matters. Perform
general administrative duties to support the effective functioning of the Subsection.
ENQUIRIES : Col GJ Tebe / Capt TL Legora / CAC BR Tiya / AC CH Waldeck at telephone: (012)
397 7250 / 7021 / 7025 / 7023.
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivered applications: Tulbagh Park, Drakenstein building, 101 Douglas
Street: Colbyn, Pretoria 0083. (Application must be deposited into the box available
at the reception area). Emailed applications: LegoraT@saps.gov.za /
TiyaBR@saps.gov.za / and waldeckc@saps.gov.za
POST 22/154 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK SUPERVISOR (POST NUMBER: SM02/06/2026)
Component: Strategic Management
Organization Performance Monitoring
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
105
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Core Functions: Maintain an efficient filing system by ensuring systematic
classification, storage, retrieval and safeguarding of documents in accordance with
the approved records management policies. Ensure that performance-related
submissions and supporting evidence are accurately filed and easily accessible.
Implement a reminder system to track reporting deadlines and submissions.
Maintain an effective overall record management system for performance
information-related correspondence. Manage incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Coordinate the distribution of reporting templates, guidelines,
reporting schedules and related documentation. Maintain records of reporting
compliance. Compile administrative-related statistics relating to reporting
compliance and submission trends. Coordinate logistical arrangements for
meetings, preparation sessions and other related engagements. Prepare meeting
agendas, attendance registers and minute-taking documentation. Draft routine
correspondence. Perform general administrative duties to support the effective
functioning of the Organisational Performance Monitoring Subsection. Coordinate
the distribution of Annual Report copies to internal and external stakeholders.
Develop and maintain a performance information-related database. Provide
coordination support for personnel-related administrative matters.
ENQUIRIES : Col GJ Tebe / Capt TL Legora / CAC BR Tiya / AC CH Waldeck at telephone: (012)
397 7250 / 7021 / 7025 / 7023.
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivered applications: Tulbagh Park, Drakenstein building, 101 Douglas
Street: Colbyn, Pretoria 0083. (Application must be deposited into the box available
at the reception area). Emailed applications: LegoraT@saps.gov.za /
TiyaBR@saps.gov.za / and waldeckc@saps.gov.za
POST 22/155 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DET 05/2026 (1 POST)
Division Detective Services
Management Information and Support: Component: CIS
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Co-ordination and execution of the CIS Investigation and co-ordination: Crime
Information Analysis Compile and consolidate returns on the performance of the
Provinces within CIS component Monitor and ensure data integrity of all mainframe
systems at the Detective units on station level nationally Co-ordinate re-registration
of other officers on Crime Administration System and Global Access Control
System for the CIS Component Interventions: Compile and consolidate responses
to question in parliament.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel WB Chauke / Captain S Ntuli / PPO Kgwedi at (012) 393 1633/
4478 / 1277.
106
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag x
302 Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 237
Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building. Email: Detectiverecruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/156 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR (x11 POSTS)
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
Component: Executive Support Services:
Section: Office of the Component Head Post Number & location:
DPCI/HO/02/2026: Head Office
Component: Governance and Corporate Services:
Section: Office of the Component Head Post Number & location:
DPCI/HO/03/2026: Head Office
Component: Executive Support Services:
Section: Executive Secretariat and Information Management: Post Number &
location: DPCI/HO/04/2026: Head Office
Component: Forensic Accounting Investigation:
Section: Investigative Accounting Post Number & location: DPCI/HO/05/2026:
Head Office
Component: Divisional Commissioner: National Priority Offences Operations:
Section: Tactical Operations: Post Number & location: DPCI/HO/06/2026: Head
Office
Component: Serious Corruption Investigation:
Section: Serious Corruption Offences Post Number & location: DPCI/HO/07/2026:
Head Office
Component: Serious Commercial Crime Investigation:
Section: Statutory and Common Law Offences Post Number & location:
DPCI/HO/08/2026: Head Office
Component: Serious Commercial Crime Investigation:
Section: Government Fraud Post Number & location: DPCI/HO/09/2026: Head
Office
Component: Serious Organised Crime Investigation:
Section: Crime Against the State Post Number & location: DPCI/HO/10/2026:
Head Office
Component: Serious Organised Crime Investigation:
Section: Economic Protected Resources Post Number & location:
DPCI/HO/11/2026: Head Office
Component: Priority Crime Specialised Investigation:
Section: Asset Forfeiture Investigation: Post number & location: DPCI/HO/12/2026:
Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; Be in
possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Provide administrative functions and services in the relevant office; Ensure the
maintenance of good organisational systems on management and document
management movement is aligned with the registry and archives systems; Receive
and consolidate applicable monthly returns and verify information against source
documents; Maintain and updating of registries in the relevant office; Ensure that
documents are recorded and distributed to the relevant offices and that record of
receipt and distribution is recorded in the relevant registers and database; Maintain
and update of the Brought Forward system; Maintain a database of all
administration matters; Verifying files against applicable SAPS systems; Draft and
type letters; Assist with compiling of presentations; Overseeing conformation to-
and applying standards for information security, as prescribed by the Minimum
Information Security Standards (MISS) and Protection of Information Act;
Supervise and exercise control over human, physical and financial resources
allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Brigadier Mogoma Monyela and Lieutenant Colonel BK
Mhlahlo: Tel number: (012) 846 4067/4110
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
Head Office Level: Hand delivery: Main Security gate at 1 Cresswell Road, Promat
Building, SILVERTON, Email address: dpcivacancies@saps.gov.za
107
POST 22/157 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DPCI/HO/13/2026
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation
Component: Priority Crime Management Centre
Section: Threat Analysis and Assessment: Multi-Dimensional Analysis
Post Number & location:
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; *Be
in possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Receive and process all profiling requests from internal and external stakeholders;
Maintain databases / spreadsheets for monthly, quarterly and annual reporting;
Identify potential / emerging threats / trends and linkages; Maintain control
measures within the office. Liaise with stakeholders; Overseeing conformation to-
and applying standards for information security, as prescribed by the Minimum
Information Security Standards (MISS) and Protection of Information Act;
Supervise and exercise control over human, physical and financial resources
allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Brigadier Mogoma Monyela and Lieutenant Colonel BK
Mhlahlo: Tel number: (012) 846 4067/4110
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
Head Office Level: Hand delivery: Main Security gate at 1 Cresswell Road, Promat
Building, SILVERTON, Email address: dpcivacancies@saps.gov.za
POST 22/158 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DPCI/HO/14/2026
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation:
Component: Priority Crime Management Centre
Section: Threat Analysis and Assessment: Multi-Dimensional Analysis
Post Number & location
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; *Be
in possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate, capture and process all received Section 205 applications; Receive
requests for evidential communication analysis from the Components/ Provincial
Heads/Units and other government departments; Apply knowledge to ensure the
effective management, administration of all received applications of project driven
investigations; Ensure the monitoring of approved project driven investigations on
the Organised Crime Threat Analysis System (OCTMS) in terms of the Minimum
Information Security Standards and Protection of Information Act; Provide
Secretariat duties to the project governance structure (National Project Committee)
during the evaluation of approved project driven investigations; Overseeing
conformation to- and applying standards for information security, as prescribed by
the Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) and Protection of Information
Act; Supervise and exercise control over human, physical and financial resources
allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Brigadier Mogoma Monyela and Lieutenant Colonel BK
Mhlahlo: Tel number: (012) 846 4067/4110
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
108
Head Office Level: Hand delivery: Main Security gate at 1 Cresswell Road, Promat
Building, SILVERTON, Email address: dpcivacancies@saps.gov.za
POST 22/159 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DPCI/FS/18/2026
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation: Provincial level
Component: Corporate Support Services: Free State
Section: Management Information and Strategic Planning
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; Be in
possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Assist with the implementation and maintaining of national policies with regards to
management information and strategic planning; Assist in maintaining
management information database concerning resources, skill, human
development and other work related information; Assist in facilitating the strategic
management for the DPCI; The facilitation of the planning process within office of
the Provincial Head; The compilation of monitoring/evaluation reports when
requested; Implementation of national strategies; Preparation of presentations for
internal and external utilization; Evaluate and consolidate of general management
information; Coordinate of specific issues such as AGSA, Internal Audit processes
etc; Preparation of responses to official enquiries such as questions in parliament
that are being dealt with by a particular line functionary or issues that are
transversal in nature; Consolidation of management information for specific
purposes such as the briefing of Parliamentary Portfolio Committee; Overseeing
conformation to- and applying standards for information security, as prescribed by
the Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) and Protection of Information
Act; Supervise and exercise control over human, physical and financial resources
allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Lieutenant Colonel Vethezo and Captain Mkumla Telephone
number: 071 481 2510
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
DPCI: FREE STATE: Hand delivered or couriered to: Charlotte Maxeke Street/
Maitland Street, 46 ABSA Building, BLOEMFONTEIN Email address:
VethezoX@saps.gov.za and MkumlaU@saps.gov.za
POST 22/160 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO: CR15/06/2026) (1 POST)
Component: Crime Registrar
Crime Registrar: Statistics and Research Section
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be
DUTIES : Render effective quality assurance checks on the crime data of the stations within
the province. Process and compile Crime Statistics reports for the province.
Maintain an efficient filing system by ensuring systematic classification, storage,
retrieval and safeguarding of documents in accordance with the approved records
109
management policies. Ensure that performance-related submissions and
supporting evidence are accurately filed and easily accessible. Implement a
reminder system to track reporting deadlines and submissions. Maintain an
effective overall record management system for performance information-related
correspondence. Manage incoming and outgoing correspondence. Coordinate the
distribution of reporting templates, guidelines, reporting schedules and related
documentation. Maintain records of reporting compliance. Compile administrative-
related statistics relating to reporting compliance and submission trends.
Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings, preparation sessions and other
related engagements. Prepare meeting agendas, attendance registers and minute-
taking documentation. Draft routine correspondence. Perform general
administrative duties to support the effective functioning of the province. Develop
and maintain a performance information-related database. Provide coordination
support for personnel-related administrative matters.
ENQUIRIES : Col DB Mathebe / Lt Col B Sookraj / Captain TP Baloyi / W/O N Mahwai Tel No
(012) 360 1502 / 1524 / 1544
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag
X94, Pretoria,0001 OR Physical Address: No 463 Prieska Street, Erasmuskloof,
Pretoria,0001 OR E-Mail address: SookrajB@saps.gov.za/BaloyiPT@saps.gov.za
and MahwaiN@saps.gov.za
POST 22/161 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO:CR16/06/2026) (1 POST)
Component: Crime Registrar
Crime Registrar: Office of the Component Head
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be
DUTIES : Draft letters and/or documents related to Crime Registrar products. E.g. Pre-
Release Calendar. Quality check / proofread all incoming and outgoing
correspondences prior to submission to the Component Head. Maintain an efficient
filing system by ensuring the systematic classification, storage, retrieval and
safeguarding of documents in accordance with the approved records management
policies. Ensure that performance-related submissions and supporting evidence
are accurately filed and easily accessible. Implement a reminder system to track
reporting deadlines and submissions. Maintain an effective overall record
management system for performance information-related correspondence.
Manage incoming and outgoing correspondence. Coordinate the distribution of
reporting templates, guidelines, reporting schedules and related documentation.
Maintain records of reporting compliance. Compile administrative-related statistics
relating to reporting compliance and submission trends. Coordinate logistical
arrangements for traveling, meetings, preparation sessions and other related
engagements for the Component Head. Prepare meeting agendas, attendance
registers and minute-taking documentation. Draft routine correspondence. Perform
general administrative duties to support the effective functioning for the office of
the Component Head. Develop and maintain a performance information-related
database. Provide coordination support for personnel-related administrative
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Col DB Mathebe / Lt Col B Sookraj / Captain TP Baloyi / W/O N Mahwai Tel No
(012) 360 1502 / 1524 / 1544
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag
X94, Pretoria,0001 OR Physical Address: No 463 Prieska Street, Erasmuskloof,
Pretoria,0001 OR E-Mail address: SookrajB@saps.gov.za/BaloyiPT@saps.gov.za
and MahwaiN@saps.gov.za
POST 22/162 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO: CR17/06/2026) (1 POST)
Component: Crime Registrar
Crime Registrar: Crime Statistics and Research
110
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be
DUTIES : Collect, process and analyse crime statistics. Create and manage crime
information databases for analysis purposes. Conduct quality checks on the
statistical datasets and compile presentations and infographics. Assist the
research team with sampling and templates. Assist the component in maintaining
an efficient filing system /database by ensuring the systematic classification,
storage, retrieval and safeguarding of documents in accordance with the approved
records management policies. Implement a reminder system to track reporting
deadlines and submissions. Maintain an effective overall record management
system for performance information-related correspondence. Assist in the
distribution of reporting templates, guidelines, reporting schedules and related
documentation. Perform general administrative duties to support the effective
functioning of the section.
ENQUIRIES : Col DB Mathebe / Lt Col B Sookraj / Captain TP Baloyi / W/O N Mahwai Tel No
(012) 360 1502 / 1524 / 1544
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses:
Postal Address: Private Bag X94, Pretoria,0001 OR Physical Address: No 463
Prieska Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria,0001 OR E-Mail address:
SookrajB@saps.gov.za/BaloyiPT@saps.gov.za and MahwaiN@saps.gov.za
POST 22/163 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: LS05/2026 (1X POST)
Division: Legal Services: Legal Support: Policing and Detection
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office/Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills And Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended
DUTIES : Ensure that administrative support functions are rendered in the Component;
Ensure that accurate record keeping and database is maintained for efficient
administration in the component; Maintain and coordinate efficient office
administrations within the component; Maintain and update the inventory of the
component; Perform support duties and coordinate the components office
activities.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lt Colonel ME Mokholoane / Captain KM Sereetsi at Tel:
0664864393 / 0827733890 / 0827789176.
APPLICATIONS : Application forms may be posted or hand delivered to: 231 Pretorius Street,
Wachthuis Building, South African Police Services: National Head Office, Pretoria
0001 for attention: Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lieutenant Colonel ME Mokholoane
/ Captain KM Sereetsi. Via Email: NonkenyanaNL@saps.gov.za,
MokholoaneM@saps.gov.za, SereetsiK@saps.gov.za.
111
POST 22/164 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: LS06/2026 (3X POSTS)
Division: Legal Services: Litigation: Civil Litigation
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office/Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer and register all new claims received and render administrative support;
Retrieve and obtain computerized and system information as requested. Ensure
compliance with the Civil Claims Litigation Assessment Tool.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lt Colonel ME Mokholoane / Captain KM Sereetsi at Tel:
0664864393 / 0827733890 / 0827789176.
APPLICATIONS : Application forms may be posted or hand delivered to: 231 Pretorius Street,
Wachthuis Building, South African Police Services: National Head Office, Pretoria
0001 for attention: Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lieutenant Colonel ME Mokholoane
/ Captain KM Sereetsi. Via Email: NonkenyanaNL@saps.gov.za,
MokholoaneM@saps.gov.za, SereetsiK@saps.gov.za.
POST 22/165 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR: REF NO: RIM 02/06/2026 (X1 POST)
Risk & Integrity Management: Office of the Chief Risk Officer
SALARY : R338 106.per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Ensure effective implementation of an administration system at the office of the
Component Head: Risk and Integrity Management; Execute administrative tasks
which support and assist the Component Head: Risk and Integrity Management;
ensure data integrity for asset register with regard to moveable government
property, transport, services and special projects. Assist in monitoring losses
occurred during special projects. Ensure determination in respect of Diverse and
Stationary items. Execute functions related to planning of life cycle of items in
respect of Diverse and Stationery in Supply Chain Management (SCM) Process.
Ensure office inventory and equipment for the Section. Handle fuel consumption
returns for the Section’s fleet. Handle Asset Register for SAPS. Manage inspection
of member’s equipment (SAPS 108). Register and record vehicle incidents,
damages, losses and thefts. Report new incidents to Corporate Support Loss
Management. Administer correspondence of incidents of information required of
vehicles, accidents, damages and losses or thefts.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
112
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to PretoriusK@saps.gov.za
POST 22/166 : REGISTRY CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DPCI/MP/28/2026
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation
Component: Serious organised Crime Investigation: Middelburg
Section: Serious organised Crime Investigation
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Middelburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; *Be
in possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Administrate an effective filing system and record management services; Handling
of incoming and outgoing post within the Unit; Administrate the processing and
process documents for archiving and/disposal; Deal with Promotion of Access to
Information; Overseeing conformation to- and applying standards for information
security, as prescribed by the Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) and
Protection of Information Act; Supervise and exercise control over human, physical
and financial resources allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Lieutenant Colonel Shongwe and Captain Maseko Telephone
number: (013) 759 1366 / 1365 / 1377
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
DPCI: Mpumalanga: Hand delivered or couriered to: 17 Henshall Street, Stats
House, NELSPRUIT Email address: ShongweS@saps.gov.za
POST 22/167 : REGISTRY CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO: AUX/03/2026) (1 POST)
SAPS Auxiliary Services: Records Management and Sundry Services
Component Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R338 106.per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirements: Applicants must display competency in the core functions
of the post. Be proficient in at least English and one other official language. Be a
citizen of the Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be
furnished on the day of the interview. Be in possession of a Grade 12 / Senior
Certificate / NCV Level 4, or equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized
by SAQA). With at least four years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable
three (3) year Diploma / Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA)
as well as relevant training courses in the field of the post will serve as an added
advantage. A valid driver’s license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an
added advantage. Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant
prescripts applicable to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication
skills. General computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point,
MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Strong interpersonal skills. Report writing.
Presentation skills, problem solving, sound planning, organizing and administration
skills, strong administration skills, strong analytical skills and facilitation skills. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To effectively coordinate and control Archives and Registry functions. Supervise
and control over correspondence/files/records. Supervise and control over human,
physical and financial resources. Supervise the opening and registering, receiving
and dispatching of files. Supervise incoming and outgoing correspondence.
Supervise the drawing of Brought Forward files. Supervise the filing of files and
finalized post on files. Supervise telephone and other enquiries. Supervise the
track/trace/search of files that are urgently needed. Supervise the weekly auditing
of files, the replacing of worn/torn covers of existing files. Protect integrity and
invade unauthorized access of files/records. Plan task and duties and delegate
responsibilities. Control the completion and processing of leave applications
(SAPS 26A). Ensure high level of discipline is maintained and adhered to SAPS
Code of Conduct, Standing Order and Regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Captain MN Maswanganyi Tel No (012) 393 1023 / 4967 / 1453
113
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag
X94, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical Address: 231 Pretorius Street, Wachthuis
Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR E-Mail address: MadavhaA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/168 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR (REF NO: AUX/02/2026) (1 POST)
SAPS Auxiliary Services
Component Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office (POPIA)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirements: Applicants must display competency in the core functions
of the post. Be proficient in at least English and one other official language. Be a
citizen of the Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be
furnished on the day of the interview. Be in possession of a Grade 12 / Senior
Certificate / NCV Level 4, or equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized
by SAQA). With at least four years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable
three (3) year Diploma / Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA)
as well as relevant training courses in the field of the post will serve as an added
advantage. A valid driver’s license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an
added advantage. Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant
prescripts applicable to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication
skills. General computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point,
MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Strong interpersonal skills. Report writing.
Presentation skills, problem solving, sound planning, Organizing and
administration skills, strong administration skills, strong analytical skills and
Facilitation skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To give effect to the constitutional rights to privacy by protecting personal data from
misuse, theft and unauthorised processing (POPIA). Coordinate the
implementation of Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4 of 2013).
Render an administrative support function to the sub-section. Handling the
investigations and complaints received from the Information Regulator and Public
in regard to POPIA. Visit identified Provincial, Divisional, Component, Head Office
and station DIO’s and manage interventions one-on-one training and/or
information/training session to solve identified problems. Assist in coordinating
awareness campaigns. Register all POPIA DIO’s on the Information Regulator
Portal. Assist in the developing policies and circulars with relations to POPIA.
Assist in conducting Personal Information Assessment. Coordinate and monitor
performance plan for the members and conduct performance assessment on a
quarterly basis and per semester. Coordinate Mainframe and Crime Administration
System enquiry. Coordinate the administering of leave and Z8 Register of
employees of the sub-section and the signing on and off of non-commissioned
officials in the Z8. Ensure personnel conform to the general discipline and
adherence to the Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Captain MN Maswanganyi Tel No (012) 393 1023 / 4967 / 1453
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag
X94, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical Address: 231 Pretorius Street, Wachthuis
Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR E-Mail address: MadavhaA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/169 : REGISTRY CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: IA27/06/2026 (1 POST)
Component Internal Audit
SALARY : R338 106. per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office: Support Services: Internal Audit
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added. Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General Computer literacy
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong interpersonal
skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning,
Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills.
Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Maintain an efficient filing system by ensuring the systematic classification,
storage, retrieval and safeguarding of documents in accordance with the approved
records management policies. Ensure that performance-related submissions and
114
supporting evidence are accurately filed and easily accessible. Implement a
reminder system to track reporting deadlines and submissions. Maintain an
effective overall record management system for performance information-related
correspondence. Manage incoming and outgoing correspondence. Coordinate the
distribution of reporting templates, guidelines, reporting schedules and related
documentation. Maintain records of reporting compliance. Compile administrative-
related statistics relating to reporting compliance and submission trends.
Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings, preparation sessions and other
related engagements. Prepare meeting agendas, attendance registers and minute-
taking documentation. Draft routine correspondence. Perform general
administrative duties to support the effective functioning of the Organisational
Performance Monitoring Subsection. Coordinate the distribution of Annual Report
copies to internal and external stakeholders. Develop and maintain a performance
information-related database. Provide coordination support for personnel-related
administrative matters.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Mukhesi / Captain A Dhlamini / Warrant Officer Selele on 063
697 2598/ 063 697 3155 / 082 569 8523.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Physical Address: Reception:
SAPS National Head Office: 231 Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building. Email:
RatshiedanaS@saps.gov.za and DhlaminiA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/170 : REGISTRY CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DPCI/HO/15/2026
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation
Component: Governance and Corporate Services
Section: Financial & Administration Services: Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; Be in
possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : Ensure an effective filing system and record management services; Handling of
incoming and outgoing post within DPCI; Ensure the processing of documents for
archiving and/disposal; Deal with Promotion of Access to Information; Overseeing
conformation to- and applying standards for information security, as prescribed by
the Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) and Protection of Information
Act; Supervise and exercise control over human, physical and financial resources
allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Brigadier Mogoma Monyela and Lieutenant Colonel BK
Mhlahlo: Tel number: (012) 846 4067/4110
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
Head Office Level: Hand delivery: Main Security gate at 1 Cresswell Road, Promat
Building, SILVERTON, Email address: dpcivacancies@saps.gov.za
POST 22/171 : DATA TYPIST SUPERVISOR REF NO: DPCI/WC/35/2026
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation: Provincial level
Component: Serious Commercial Crime Investigation: Bellville
Section: Serious Commercial Crime Investigation
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; Be in
possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
115
DUTIES : Receive and consolidate monthly crime returns; Verify information against source
documents and relevant CAS data in terms of Technical Indicator Description;
Compile and calculate Serious Commercial Crime Performance indicator targets;
Query discrepancies and obtain restatement reports from units and rectify
submitted statistical data; Overseeing conformation to- and applying standards for
information security, as prescribed by the Minimum Information Security Standards
(MISS) and Protection of Information Act; Supervise and exercise control over
human, physical and financial resources allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Captain Xhego and Warrant Officer Matlou Telephone number:
(071) 481 3252 and (071) 481
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
DPCI: Western Cape: Hand delivered or couriered to: 3 AJ West Street, Old SARS
Building, BELLVILLE Email address: Sibelekwanas@saps.gov.za
POST 22/172 : ACCOUNTING CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: LS07/2026 (1X POST)
Division: Legal Services: Support Services: Financial Management Services
SALARY R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE Head Office/Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Supervise Financial Service activities within the Division; Administer and report all
financial losses; Supervise and control all financial accounting and expenditure
administration related matters; Ensure administrative of auxiliary services
(messenger, access to information, telephone accounts etc); Supervise and control
the human, physical and financial resources of the environment.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lt Colonel ME Mokholoane / Captain KM Sereetsi at Tel:
0664864393 / 0827733890 / 0827789176.
APPLICATIONS : Application forms may be posted or hand delivered to: 231 Pretorius Street,
Wachthuis Building, South African Police Services: National Head Office, Pretoria
0001 for attention: Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lieutenant Colonel ME Mokholoane
/ Captain KM Sereetsi. Via Email: NonkenyanaNL@saps.gov.za,
MokholoaneM@saps.gov.za, SereetsiK@saps.gov.za.
POST 22/173 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: DPCI/HO/01/2026
Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation
Component: Office of the National Head: DPCI
Section: Office of the National Head: DPCI
Post Number & location
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must display competency in the post-specific functions of the post; Be in
possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National Certificate (Vocational)
recorded on the National Leaner Record Database on NQF Level 4. Must have
four (4) years’ appropriate/relevant experience in the field of the post. Be proficient
in at least two (2) official languages, of which one (1) must be English; Must be a
South African citizen of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of
the interview; Must have no previous criminal/departmental convictions or criminal
or departmental cases pending; Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process
which will include security screening and fingerprint verification; Computer literacy,
interpersonal communication (verbal and written) and organisational skills;
Relevant tertiary qualifications and developmental courses may service as an
advantage.
DUTIES : To perform secretarial support and coordinate office activities; Perform
professional secretarial assignment to the Executive; Plan and organise meetings
or workshops as directed; Ensure that documents are recorded and distributed to
the relevant offices and that record of receipt and distribution is recorded in the
116
relevant registers and database; Maintain and update of the Brought Forward
system; Maintain a database of all administration matters; Verifying files against
applicable SAPS systems; Draft and type letters; Assist with compiling of
presentations; Overseeing conformation to- and applying standards for information
security, as prescribed by the Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) and
Protection of Information Act; Supervise and exercise control over human, physical
and financial resources allocated to the environment.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Brigadier Mogoma Monyela and Lieutenant Colonel BK
Mhlahlo: Tel number: (012) 846 4067/4110
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be posted / hand delivered or emailed to the following
addresses (Please utilize only one (1) mode of delivery which is convenient to you):
Head Office Level: Hand delivery: Main Security gate at 1 Cresswell Road, Promat
Building, SILVERTON, Email address: dpcivacancies@saps.gov.za
POST 22/174 : SECURITY GUARD SUPERVISOR POST NUMBER: TMS 22/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Section: Auxiliary Services
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Applicants must display competency in the post-specific core functions
of the post. Be in possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National
Certificate (Vocational) recorded on the National Learner Record Database on
NQF level 4. NQF level 5 qualification in Security (risk) Management, Policing,
criminology or related field of study or higher will serve as an advantage.
Registration with the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority (PSIRA) with a
minimum of at least Grade B security certificate. Minimum of 3 years’ experience
in security. Not declared unfit to possess a firearm. Be willing to undergo firearm
competency training. Be willing to maintain firearm competency. Be fluent in at
least two of the official languages, of which one must be English. Be a South
African Citizen. Must have no previous criminal / departmental convictions or
criminal / departmental cases pending. Degree / Diploma in the field of security will
be an added advantage. Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process which
will include security screening and fingerprint verification. Relevant courses in the
field of the post as well as valid driver’s license for at least a light motor vehicle will
serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge
of access control procedures. Knowledge of measures for the control and
movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed security procedures
(e.g., MIS, NISA, Protection of Information Act, etc.) and the authority of security
officers under these documents. Knowledge of the relevant emergency
procedures. Client service skills. Be able to operate security related technology
and devices (handheld metal detectors, handheld radio communication, etc).
Telephone etiquettes. Be able to take initiative steps to address issues of
discipline. Be computer literate. Have an understanding and be able to apply rules,
regulations and legislation relevant to the security environment. Be willing to work
a 12-hour shift and extended hours as and when required. Sound knowledge and
application of the Minimum Information Security Standards, Minimum Physical
Security Standards, Control Public Premises and Vehicles Act, 53 of 1985. Be
familiar with emergency evacuation procedures.
DUTIES : Ensure an effective and efficient security function within different Head Office
buildings. Exercise control over security personnel and safeguarding of the
premises. Ensure proper control of access at all ingress/egress points within the
facility in compliance with relevant legislative framework. Ensure total compliance
to all relevant registers in use within the security environment. Exercise control
over patrol duties at Head Office buildings/premises. Administer and exercise
control over the control room activities. Identify and exercise control over report
security related breaches. Administer effective control over the security technology
aids. Enforce discipline with the post specific environment. Ensure effective and
efficient human, financial, physical and information resources.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel:
012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets;Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/175 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (PAIA) (REF NO: AUX/05/2026) (1 POST)
SAPS Auxiliary Services: Administration Services
Component Auxiliary Services
117
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirements: Applicants must display competency in the core functions
of the post. Be proficient in at least English and one other official language. Be a
citizen of the Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be
furnished on the day of the interview. Be in possession of a Grade 12 / Senior
Certificate / NCV Level 4 or equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by
SAQA). Relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: General computer literacy (MS Word, MS
Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Strong planning, organizing,
administrative and problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Deal with request for access to records and assist with interventions in Internal
Appeals lodged to the Minister in terms of Promotion of Access to Information Act,
2000 (Act 2 of 2000), (PAIA). Administer general administration by preparing
training materials, organizing meetings with refreshments and drafting
correspondences. Record accurate minutes and coordinate travel arrangements
when requested.
ENQUIRIES : Captain MN Maswanganyi Tel No (012) 393 1023 / 4967 / 1453
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag
X94, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical Address: 231 Pretorius Street, Wachthuis
Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR E-Mail address: MadavhaA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/176 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: AUX/06/2026) (1 POST)
SAPS Auxiliary Services: Records Management and Sundy Services
Component Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirements: Applicants must display competency in the core functions
of the post. Be proficient in at least English and one other official language. Be a
citizen of the Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be
furnished on the day of the interview. Be in possession of a Grade 12 / Senior
Certificate / NCV Level 4 or equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by
SAQA). Relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: General computer literacy (MS Word, MS
Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Strong planning, organizing,
administrative and problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To administer the provisioning of sundry services, administer SCM, HRM and
financial support for personnel. Type written documents according to instructions.
Supervise and control the basic functions regarding the rendering of Cleaning
Services for the Division: Financial Management Services and Component:
Auxiliary Services. Update the South African Service Telephone Directory.
Administer Z8 register, SAP26 and SAPS 26A, Occurrence Book. Collect invoices
of telephone accounts and submit to miscellaneous Services. Administer all
personnel files, circular for the Sub-Section. Type documents from manuscripts.
Supervise and control over cleaners reporting to the Component. Conduct offices,
bathrooms and passages inspections.
ENQUIRIES : Captain MN Maswanganyi Tel No (012) 393 1023 / 4967 / 1453
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag
X94, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical Address: 231 Pretorius Street, Wachthuis
Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR E-Mail address: MadavhaA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/177 : REGISTRY CLERK (POST NUMBER: PPS04/2026) (1X POST)
Finance and Administration Services
Component: Presidential Protection Service
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Be a citizen of the
Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day
of the interview. Relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as an added
advantage. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: General computer literacy skills
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate
118
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Sound planning,
organizing, administrative and problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and
extended hours.
DUTIES : Core Functions: Provide quality clerical support at archives and registration office.
Conduct effective and efficient archive and registration correspondence support.
Ensure proper administration and management of personnel files / records. Uphold
the confidentiality of all classified documents as per the MISS.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Kganyago Tel No: 012 400 5310/ Warrant Officer Sithebe on
012 400 5186/ Warrant Officer Mnyalatyho 012 400 5105/ AC Sekwape 012 400
5137/ AC Modiha/ HRC Sibande 012 400 5147
APPLICATIONS : HQ: Pretoria: Applications can be posted / hand delivered to the following address:
Private Bag x 272 Pretoria 0002 or 3 Troye and Park Street, Protection Service,
Maupa Naga Building Sunnyside 0002 or e-mailed to: Kganyagonn@saps.gov.za
/ SithebeS@saps.gov.za / MnyalatyhoLL@saps.gov.za /
SekwapeND@saps.gov.za / SibandeK@saps.gov.za / ModihaI@saps.gov.za
POST 22/178 : REGISTRY CLERK (REF NO: AUX/07/2026) (2 POSTS)
SAPS Auxiliary Services: Records Management and Sundry Services
Component Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirements: Applicants must display competency in the core functions
of the post. Be proficient in at least English and one other official language. Be a
citizen of the Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be
furnished on the day of the interview. Be in possession of a Grade 12 / Senior
Certificate / NCV Level 4 or equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by
SAQA). Relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: General computer literacy (MS Word, MS
Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Strong planning, organizing,
administrative and problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To open, dispatch and/or file correspondence numerically on personal files and
other records according to the established procedures to maintain the filing system.
Conduct effective and efficient Archives and Registry correspondence support.
Receive, withdraw and dispatch files. Handle/deal with incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Drawing and dispatching of Brought Forwards. Numerical filing
of files and finalised post. Deliver a professional service to the stakeholders. Attend
and deal with other related enquiries. Tracking/tracing/seeking of files. Auditing of
files. Protect integrity and invade unauthorised access of files/records.
ENQUIRIES : Captain MN Maswanganyi Tel No (012) 393 1023 / 4967 / 1453
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag
X94, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical Address: 231 Pretorius Street, Wachthuis
Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR E-Mail address: MadavhaA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/179 : SECURITY GUARD SUPERVISOR (REF NO: AUX/08/2026) (2 POSTS)
SAPS Auxiliary Services: Security Services
Component Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must display competency in the core functions
of the post. Be proficient in at least English and one other official language. Be a
citizen of the Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be
furnished on the day of the interview. Be in possession of a Grade 12 / Senior
Certificate / NCV level 4 certificate recorded on the National Learner Record
Database on (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). NQF level 5 qualification in
Security (Risk) Management, Policing, Criminology or related field of study or
higher will serve as an advantage. Minimum of three (3) years’ experience in the
field of the post. Valid Registration with the Private Security Industry Regulatory
Authority (PSIRA). Be in possession of at least a Grade B Security Certificate or
higher. Not declared unfit to possess a fire-arm. Be willing to undergo firearm
competency training and to maintain firearm competency. A valid driver’s license
for at least a light motor vehicle will also serve as an added advantage. Be willing
to work shifts and extended hours. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of the access control procedures. Knowledge of measures for the
control and movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed security
procedures (e.g. MIS, NISA, Protection of Information Act, etc.) and the authority
of security officers under these documents. Knowledge of the relevant emergency
procedures.
119
DUTIES : Ensure an effective and efficient security function at the different Head Office
buildings. Exercise control over security personnel and safeguarding of premises.
Ensure proper control of access at all ingress/egress points within the facility in
compliance with the Control Public Premises and Vehicles Act, 53 of 1985 and
relevant legislative framework. Ensure total compliance to all relevant registers in
use within the security environment. Exercise control over patrol duties at Head
Office buildings/premises. administer and exercise control over the control room
activities. Identify and exercise control over report security related breaches.
Administer effective control over the security technology aids. Enforce discipline
within the post specific environment. Ensure effective and efficient human,
financial, physical and information resources.
ENQUIRIES : Captain MN Maswanganyi Tel No (012) 393 1023 / 4967 / 1453
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag
X94, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical Address: 231 Pretorius Street, Wachthuis
Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR E-Mail address: MadavhaA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/180 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: ESIR 03/06/2026 (X1 POST)
Interpol NCB, Generic Support Desk
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Ensure, administer and render effective and efficient financial and administrative
support and services to Interpol NCB Pretoria, both internally and externally.
Administer, compile and ensure financial and administrative support and
recordkeeping of the budget and procurement processes concerning logistical and
financial matters at Interpol NCB Pretoria. Administer, ensure and maintain
effective and efficient stock taking process and updating of records and registers.
Administer, compile and assist with claims for journeys abroad, verification and
facilitation thereof. Attend meetings and perform standby / Ad hoc duties when
necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to MashiloaneK@saps.gov.za
POST 22/181 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: ESIR 04/06/2026 (X1 POST)
Interpol NCB. Operational Crime Desk: MLA/Extradition
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
120
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Ensure, administer and render effective and efficient administrative support and
services to Interpol NCB Pretoria, both internally and externally. Compile, ensure,
administer and maintain administrative support including reports, letters, info notes
and other documents and systems. Make copies and ensure the protection of
integrity and unauthorised access to files of all cases. Assist and render support at
meetings with national or international role players when necessary. Perform
standby / Ad hoc duties when necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to MashiloaneK@saps.gov.za
POST 22/182 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (REF NO: AUX/09/2026) (1 POST)
SAPS Auxiliary Services: Support Services (SCM)
Component Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENT : Minimum Requirements: Applicants must display competency in the core functions
of the post. Be proficient in at least English and one other official language. Be a
citizen of the Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be
furnished on the day of the interview. Be in possession of a Grade 12 / Senior
Certificate / NCV Level 4 or equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by
SAQA). Relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: General computer literacy (MS Word, MS
Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Strong planning, organizing,
administrative and problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To effectively and efficiently render logistical support to the Component. Administer
PAS in terms of completion and filing of documents. Keep, control and administer
payments of suppliers. Perform procurement related tasks. Perform requisition and
acquisition of stock/service orders from provisioning stores. Receive
equipment/stock/service and process invoice administration. Maintain supplier and
procurement database. Date, record and submit original invoices to payment
section. Compile demand plan.
ENQUIRIES : Captain MN Maswanganyi Tel No (012) 393 1023 / 4967 / 1453
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag
X94, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical Address: 231 Pretorius Street, Wachthuis
Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR E-Mail address: MadavhaA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/183 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (REF NO: VP E10/2026)
Support Services: Supply Chain Management: Fleet Management
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Midcity Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To render an effective Supply Chain Management in terms of Fleet Management.
Ensure optimal availability of the fleet. Administer the disposal regarding Board of
Surveys. Render a supportive service in maintaining the vehicle fleet.
Management of fuel card administration. Ensure system integrity at all times of all
the vehicles on all systems in the logistical environment. Attend vehicle risk
committee meetings.
ENQUIRIES Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
121
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/184 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (POST NUMBER: PPS 05/2026) (1X POST)
Component: Presidential Protection Service
Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : KwaZulu-Natal: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Be a citizen of the
Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day
of the interview. Relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as an added
advantage. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: General computer literacy skills
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Sound planning,
organizing, administrative and problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and
extended hours.
DUTIES : Core Functions: Administration of all Fleet Management duties for the province.
Administration of all Procurement Management duties for the province.
Administration of all Facility Management duties for the province. Administration of
all Moveable Government Property duties for the province. Uphold the
confidentiality of all classified documents as per the MISS.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Mkhize / Lieutenant Colonel Malinga/ AC Msani / AC Zondo /
Secretary Sithole on 031 203 7328
APPLICATIONS : Kwazulu-Natal (Durban): Applications can be posted / hand delivered to the
following address: 446 Vusi Mzimela Road Cato Manor 4058 and e-mailed to:
MkhizeSiyabonga@saps.gov.za / MalingaZ@saps.gov.za /
MsaniLL@saps.gov.za / ZondoN1@saps.gov.za / SitholeNL2@saps.gov.za
POST 22/185 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (POST NUMBER: PPS 06/2026) (1X POST)
Component: Presidential Protection Service
Supply Chain Management: Tactical Logistics
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Western Cape: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Be a citizen of the
Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day
of the interview. Relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as an added
advantage. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: General computer literacy skills
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Sound planning,
organizing, administrative and problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and
extended hours.
DUTIES : Core Functions: Administration of bookings and payments of international
accommodation and transport services. Administration of the provision of suppliers
and operational equipment including the maintenance thereof. Ensure operational
convoy vehicles operate safely, and all registers are completed according to
standing orders. Administration of all Tactical Logistic functions for the province.
Uphold the confidentiality of all classified documents as per the MISS.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Kamana / Captain Teyise / AC Sofika/AC Sylvester on Tel No:
021 467 6485/6499
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape (Cape Town): Applications must be posted / hand delivered to the
following address:121 Garmour House Plein Street Cape Town 8001 and e-mailed
to: KamanaEN@saps.gov.za / TeyiseS@saps.gov.za / cpt-ppu@saps.gov.za
POST 22/186 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (REF NO: VP E28/2026)
Veterinary Services: Support Services
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum
CENTRE : Roodeplaat: Pretoria
122
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer procurement related matters. Render a supportive service in
maintaining the vehicle fleet. Render the administration of loss management.
Render administration of SANDF accounts. Maintain Government Property
account.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/187 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (REF NO: VP E11/2026)
Support Services: Supply Chain Management: Moveable Government
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Property: Midcity Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer the proper control management and maintenance of Moveable
Government Property. Administer the efficient and effective asset inspection and
certification. Administer the disposal of assets. Administration of official orders.
Control of store stock.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/188 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK REF NO: ESIR 05/06/2026 (X1 POST)
Section Head Corporate Support, Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer procurement and logistical support within the subsection Supply Chain
Management. Administer the payment process. Issuing of order forms. Capturing
of order forms
123
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to MashiloaneK@saps.gov.za
POST 22/189 : FINANCIAL CLERK REF NR: FMS 11/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Internal Control
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Participate in the development and review of internal control framework/policy.
Participate in the establishment and review of Internal Control systems, policies
and procedures. Consolidation, analysis and monitoring of implementation of
agreed action plans on findings raised by other assurance providers. Analysis of
assurance provider’s reports and compile reports for oversight bodies (Combined
Assurance Working Committee, Combined Assurance Forum, Risk Management
Committee, Audit Committee). Analyses of assurance provider’s reports to identify
weakness/gaps and compile internal control reports. Participate in the
development of materials for financial management awareness.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/190 : FINANCIAL CLERK REF NR: FMS 14/2026 (2 POSTS)
Division: Financial Management Services
Expenditure Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer all claims by receiving, registering and checking all claims. Calculate
and process all claims. Capturing and record keeping of claims. Assist with the
registering and archiving of all claims. Conform to and apply the standards for
information security, as prescribed by the Minimum Information Security Standards
and other legislation relating to the protection of information.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/191 : FINANCIAL CLERK REF NR: FMS 15/2026 (2 POSTS)
Division: Financial Management Services
Financial Accounting
124
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Serve as a cashier, investigate and allocate rejections to the responsible sections,
process requests for refunds, upload daily bank reconciliation on the financial
system. Assist the National Nodal point to obtain the required information for the
Auditor General according to the timelines, administer the request for information
and communication of audit findings registers, minutes compilation for the audit
steering committee, process Auditor General South Africa invoices.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/192 : FINANCIAL CLERK REF NR: FMS 18/2026 (3 POSTS)
Financial Auxiliary Management
Division: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Assist with the final benefits payable by the department to beneficiaries of
deceased employees and recover debt from pension benefits. Assist with the
clearing of ledger accounts. Administering, resignation and dismissals, freeze,
reversal and recall of salaries of ex-employees in accordance with the PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, Loss Management and internal Directives.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/193 : FINANCIAL CLERK REF NR: FMS 19/2026 (2 POSTS)
Division: Financial Management Services
Medical Payments
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
125
DUTIES : Capture SAPS 70's and IOD invoices on the Polfin System. Record incorrect SAPS
70's and invoices in a register. Administer the registration of medical service
providers and/or registration of banking details. Make follow-up enquiries on
incorrect transactions. Deal with all enquiries received from service providers.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/194 : FINANCIAL CLERK (REF NO: VP E12/2026)(2 POSTS)
Support Services: Financial and Administration Services
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Midcity Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer and completion of domestic itineraries. Create POLFIN financial
authorities. Administer accommodation and flights (domestic and foreign)
bookings. Administer cell phone accounts. Administer and handle financial
applications.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/195 : FINANCIAL CLERK (REF NO: VP E30/2026)
Rapid Rail Police: Support Services
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum
CENTRE : Gauteng North: Silverton
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Maintain the revenue fund. Administer advances and claims. Maintain telephone
accounts. Administration of Human Resource related matters. Comply with service
standards.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/196 : FINANCIAL CLERK REF NO: DET 14/2026 (1 POST)
Division Detective Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria: Financial Management and Administration Services
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
126
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours
DUTIES : Render an effective and efficient financial and administration support to the
Division: Detective Services. Administer, receive, register and process all various
claims (S & T, SMS/MMS and Overtime). Render the functions of a cashier and
manage the flow and safeguarding of records. Administer the process of financial
accounting and expenditure for the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel WB Chauke / Captain S Ntuli / PPO Kgwedi at (012) 393 1633/
4478 / 1277.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag x
302 Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 237
Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building.Email: Detectiverecruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/197 : FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: CR12/06/2026) (1 POST)
Component: Crime Registrar
Crime Registrar: Support Services Section
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills, and
Competencies: General computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS
Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Strong planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support pertaining to Finance and
Administration within the Component Crime Registrar. Conduct need analysis in
various internal units and compile concept budget for the Component in
accordance with identified needs. Deal with enquiries and advise Crime Registrar
Provincial Head and Section Heads under the same pay point on their allocated
budget and financial expenditure. Verify granting of financial authority for
expenditure incurred. Check and ensure claim forms are completed accurately
before submission to accounting office or financial authority on Polfin. Manage
overtime remuneration and allowances. Check/monitor telephone accounts and
payment thereof.
ENQUIRIES : Col DB Mathebe / Lt Col B Sookraj / Captain TP Baloyi / W/O N Mahwai Tel No
(012) 360 1502 / 1524 / 1544
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses:
Postal Address: Private Bag X94, Pretoria,0001 OR Physical Address: No 463
Prieska Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria,0001 OR E-Mail address:
SookrajB@saps.gov.za/BaloyiPT@saps.gov.za and MahwaiN@saps.gov.za
POST 22/198 : FINANCIAL CLERK REF NR: FMS 20/2026 (5 POSTS)
Division: Financial Management Services
Salary Management And Maintenance
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
127
DUTIES : Administering and capturing of Overtime application claims, public holidays,
nightshift and processing of allowances. Processing and adjustment of salary,
awards and overall clerical duties.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/199 : FINANCIAL CLERK REF NO: ESIR 06/06/2026 (X1 POST)
Section Head Corporate Support, Finance
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished. Be in possession of
Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4
as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4) years’ experience in the field of the post.
An applicable three (3) year Diploma / Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized
by SAQA) as well as relevant training courses in the field of the post will serve as
an added advantage. A valid driver’s license for at least a light Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General Computer literacy
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong interpersonal
skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning,
Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills.
Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer all financial claims, payments, and advances. Administer payroll.
Administer budget and enquiries relating to salaries, deductions and allowances.
Administer incoming and outgoing correspondences. Administer IRP5 related
queries. Exercise control over utilization of all resources allocated to the section.
Control and monitor all telephone accounts, payments, registration on telephone
system and issuing of pin codes. Ensure compliance with the Public Financial
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Acts & Policies.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to MashiloaneK@saps.gov.za
POST 22/200 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK (POST NUMBER: PPS 07/2026) (1X POST)
HRM: Life Cycle Management
Component: Presidential Protection Service
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : HQ: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Be a citizen of the
Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day
of the interview. Relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as an added
advantage. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: General computer literacy skills
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Sound planning,
organizing, administrative and problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and
extended hours.
DUTIES : Core Functions: Administrate all Life Cycle Management functions. Administrate
all types of absenteeism. Administer and monitor all injuries (off and on duty).
Administer all types of Service Terminations. Uphold the confidentiality of all
classified documents as per the MISS.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Kganyago 012 400 5310/ Warrant Officer Sithebe on 012 400
5186/ Warrant Officer Mnyalatyho 012 400 5105/ AC Sekwape 012 400 5137/ AC
Modiha /HRC Sibande 012 400 5147
128
APPLICATIONS : HQ: Pretoria: Applications can be posted / hand delivered to the following address:
Private Bag x 272 Pretoria 0002 or 3 Troye and Park Street, Protection Service,
Maupa Naga Building Sunnyside 0002 or e-mailed to: Kganyagonn@saps.gov.za
/ SithebeS@saps.gov.za / MnyalatyhoLL@saps.gov.za /
SekwapeND@saps.gov.za / SibandeK@saps.gov.za / ModihaI@saps.gov.za
POST 22/201 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK REF NO: DET 15/2026 (1 POST)
Division Detective Services
Human Resource Management: Sub-Section-Human
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria: Resource Development
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours
DUTIES : Administer the TPP of the Division. Administer and update arranged courses
related to Detective Service. Respond to AD-Hoc Training Intervention and
Wellness Awareness. Coordinate bursaries in terms of the divisional instruction.
Coordinate and administer Internship process within the Division. Supervise all
administration process within the Division. Rend a professional administrative
service to the office of the Support Head.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel WB Chauke / Captain S Ntuli / PPO Kgwedi at (012) 393 1633/
4478 / 1277.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag x
302 Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 237
Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building. Email: Detectiverecruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/202 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK REF NO: LS13/2026 (1X POST)
Division: Legal Services: Support Services: Human Resource Management and
Development
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office/Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills And
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render all administrative duties regarding aspects of Human Resource
Management and Development matters within the Division; Administer leave and
audit leave files for personnel within the Division; Administer Injury on Duty;
Inspection of Z8 and SAPS 26 register books; Administer and maintain
Performance Management Process and Job Description for SMS, MMS and all
levels of employees within the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lt Colonel ME Mokholoane / Captain KM Sereetsi at Tel:
0664864393 / 0827733890 / 0827789176.
APPLICATIONS : Application forms may be posted or hand delivered to: 231 Pretorius Street,
Wachthuis Building, South African Police Services: National Head Office, Pretoria
0001 for attention: Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lieutenant Colonel ME Mokholoane
/ Captain KM Sereetsi. Via Email: NonkenyanaNL@saps.gov.za,
MokholoaneM@saps.gov.za, SereetsiK@saps.gov.za.
POST 22/203 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK (POST NUMBER: SM03/06/2026) (1X POST)
Component: Strategic Management:
Management Information and Support
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
129
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Core Functions: Administer and manage employee leave, transfers, promotions,
service terminations, discharges, retirements, and pension-related matters.
Process and coordinate applications relating to medical, disability, stress,
depression, alcohol, and death boards in accordance with organizational policies
and procedures. Maintain, update, and manage personnel records and databases,
including the capturing, verification, and submission of employee information on
relevant HR systems. Compile, maintain, and submit HR statistics, personnel
reports, employment equity reports, performance management reports, and other
required administrative reports. Administer and monitor employee performance
management processes, including Performance Enhancement Process (PEP)
compliance, progress reporting, and performance-related documentation. Process
and administer employee incentives, rewards, pay progression, and salary-related
enquiries. Register, coordinate, process, and finalize employee grievance and
disciplinary matters in accordance with applicable policies and procedures. Ensure
effective personnel administration, record management, regulatory compliance,
and the implementation of human resource policies and practices.
ENQUIRIES : Col GJ Tebe / Capt TL Legora / CAC BR Tiya / AC CH Waldeck at telephone: (012)
397 7250 / 7021 / 7025 / 7023.
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivered applications: Tulbagh Park, Drakenstein building, 101 Douglas
Street: Colbyn, Pretoria 0083. (Application must be deposited into the box available
at the reception area). Emailed applications: LegoraT@saps.gov.za /
TiyaBR@saps.gov.za / and waldeckc@saps.gov.za
POST 22/204 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK CS 04/06/2026 (X4 POSTS)
Section Corporate Support: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant
prescripts applicable to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication
skills. General Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point,
MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills.
Strong interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving,
Sound Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Perform all leave administration matters, all recruitment matters, post promotions,
EHW related matters, transfers, discipline, service terminations, acting allowances,
updating SAPS 96, rank translation, all training related matters. Compile monthly
and quarterly returns.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to TshabalalaBeauty@saps.gov.za
POST 22/205 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK (REF NO: VP E9/2026)
Support Services: Personnel Management
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
130
CENTRE : Midcity Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer the applications for transfers and service arrangements; Administer
long-term acting allowances; Administer occupational translations; Administration
of Data Integrity and update personnel placement and records; Administration of
external and internal appointments, post promotions and grade progression.
Administration of Recognition of Improved Qualifications.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/206 : MOUNTED ASSISTANT (REF NO: VP E29/2026)
Veterinary Services
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Potchefstroom
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Ensure the basic primary health care of mares and foals. Conduct pre-training and
socializing of foals. Breeding of horses.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/207 : HUMAN RESOURCES CLERK REF NR: FMS 12/2026 (2 POSTS)
Division: Financial Management Services
Support Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer functions related to Personnel Management, Human Resource
Utilization and Human Resource Development.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
131
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/208 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NR: FMS 16/2026 (2 POSTS)
Division: Financial Management Services
Loss Management
SALARY : R237 453. per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Facilitate training and administer helpdesk for the Loss Control System users.
Administer and evaluate correctness of data on the Loss Control System. Conduct
evaluation visits nationally to monitor data captured on the Loss Control System.
Administer and render support to all Legal Services personnel regarding civil
claims payments. Capture new requests to register supplier codes on the POLFIN
system. Capture new requests to register ACB details on the POLFIN system.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/209 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK POST NUMBER: TMS 15/2026
Section: Crime Systems Management: Flash Systems
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To render general Administrative Support within the Sub-section: FLASH system
(Division: TMS) Administration of Supply Chain Management: Inspection and
updating of room inventories, monthly vehicle inspection report (SAP 132(b)) etc.
Administration of Finance: Claims applications, telephone accounts, payroll,
processed invoices, etc and HRM matters. Record keeping (filing of all project
records) and serving as secretary of the sub-section meetings Submission and
follow-up of files for sign-off until finalisation. Provide administrative support to all
projects of the Sub-section FLASH, in terms of Systems Development, System
Implementation, System Maintenance & Support. Keep a brought forward tracker
of actions of the FLASH environment (all routine tasks/reports) Assist with support
of users of the Firearm Systems and other relevant tasks as need arise
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets;Hatfield, PRETORIA
132
POST 22/210 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK POST NUMBER: TMS 16/2026
Section: Crime Systems Management: DPCI Systems
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours
DUTIES : To provide assistance with systems support. Render onsite and online receptionist
services, Proper maintenance of equipment, and coordinate the travel and meeting
bookings and telephonic calls. Maintain the relevant files of the sub-section.
Receive and re-reroute incoming mail and packages. Follow up all the files for the
Sub-Section. Provide support during meetings and workshops involving the
relevant office. Maintain the cleanliness and order of the reception area.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets; Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/211 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK POST NUMBER: TMS 17/2026
Section: Corporate Management Systems
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide user system support and information requests for Cooperate Management
System. Assist and provide the first line support to Cooperate Management Clients/
users. Perform the subsection general administration for the office Assist with the
coordination of meetings and training sessions for Cooperate Management
Systems
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets;Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/212 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK POST NUMBER: TMS 18/2026
Section: Management Information and Strategic Planning
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished Be in possession of
133
Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or equivalent qualification NQF level 4
as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as an
added advantage. Ability to handle confidential information with integrity and
attention to detail, and work under pressure and meet deadlines. Knowledge, skills
and competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS
Office, MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer general administrative duties, brought forward system, incoming and
outgoing correspondence within the MISP office. Support management information
services by collecting, consolidating, and ensuring data integrity. Assist in
organising strategic and review sessions, including coordination and logistics. Draft
and compile minutes of meetings and sessions.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets; Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/213 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK POST NUMBER: TMS 19/2026
Section: Technology Centre of Excellence
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. *Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Assists the coordinating of technical skills development requirements for Division:
Technology Management Services Assist the facilitation of technology awareness
i.e. Division: TMS Career Expo and branding Assist in maintaining SAPS: TMS
web Page Assist in the administering of operational resources related to the
Section: TCoE Assist the maintenance of leave records, registers and files within
Section: TCoE.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets; Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/214 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK POST NUMBER: TMS 20/2026
Section: IS/ICT Policy Management
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIRMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished Be in possession of
Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or equivalent qualification (NQF level
4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as
an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and competencies: General computer
literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS PowerPoint and Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Sound
planning, organizing, administrative and problem-solving skills. Strong
134
interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be willing to work under
pressure and extended hours
DUTIES : Maintain and update policy register (log all approved IS/ICT policies, NI, SPOs,
circulars. Track version numbers, review dates, and owners) File management –
Facilitate files for approval and archiving. Keep master copies and signed
approvals for audit Log and track acknowledgements on the sub-section register
Update daily activities on SharePoint and Teams dashboards Order stationery
from the SCM store.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets; Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/215 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK POST NUMBER: TMS 21/2026
Section: IS/ICT Call Centre Management
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Three (3) year
National Diploma (NQF6) Information Technology/ Information Systems/Computer
Systems and relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as an added
advantage. A valid code 8 driver's license will be an added advantage. One (1)
years’ functional experience in the ICT field/ environment/ technical support
environment with understanding of network connectivity technologies. Knowledge
of End-user support procedures, Operating systems, Active Directory, ICT Service
Management Process, Batho Pele Principles, MISS Policy (DPSA) Skills:
Communication, Computer literacy, Time Management, Analytical thinking, Good
interpersonal relation, Listening, Innovative, Client focused/centric, Sense of
responsibility, Organisational goal driven, attention to detail. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Perform general clerical duties including data capturing, document management,
correspondence handling, and maintaining records within the National Operations
Centre. Provide first-line administrative support by logging incidents, tracking
requests, and ensuring timely communication between units and stakeholders.
Assist with user account administration, including password resets and access
support for SAPS internal systems in line with security protocols. Ensure
compliance with confidentiality, data protection policies, and standard operating
procedures while delivering efficient administrative support.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to: Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets; Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/216 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: VP E13/2026)
Social Crime Prevention: Victim Empowerment and Persons with Special
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Needs: Midcity Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
135
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Keep a record of monthly and quarterly reports submitted by the provinces.
Maintain an accurate filing system. Compile itineraries and advance forms.
Arrange travel bookings and accommodation. Manage the calendar, take minutes
of meetings within the sub-section. Maintain quality control of correspondence
between the Section Head and Section Commander. Compile progress reports in
terms of the SAPS Policies. Logistical arrangements of meetings. Administration
of telephonic accounts for the sub-section. Analyse and consolidate victim friendly
information. Maintain a database of stations with and without victim friendly rooms.
Administration of Human Resource Management related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/217 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: VP E19/2026) (2 POSTS)
Flash: Data integrity and Quality Control
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Suncadia Building, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Receive, register and process firearm applications on EFRS. Verify and quality
check application details and prepare documentation for consideration. Capture
and maintain accurate records on the system. Compile routine performance
statistics. Maintain an effective and efficient filling system.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/218 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: VP E20/2026) (2 POSTS)
Flash: Firearm Compliance and Enforcement
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Suncadia Building, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Perform administrative duties and render support to the Section Commander:
Monitoring and Evaluation. Coordinate official journeys, visits and itineraries within
the section. Capture and maintain accurate records on the system. Verify firearm
details and prepare documentation for reports. Compile routine performance
statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
136
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/219 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO:VP E21/2026) (2 POSTS)
Flash: Central Firearm Register: Individual Licencing.
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Veritas Building, Pretoria Central
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Receive, register, and process individual firearm applications on EFRS. Verify
application details and prepare documentation for consideration. Capture and
maintain accurate records on the system. Compile routine performance statistics.
Maintain an efficient and accessible filing system.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/220 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: VP E22/2026) (2 POSTS)
Flash: Central Firearm Register: Competencies
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Veritas Building, Pretoria Central
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Receive, register, and process individual firearm applications on EFRS. Verify
application details and prepare documentation for consideration. Capture and
maintain accurate records on the system. Compile routine performance statistics.
Maintain an efficient and accessible filing system.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/221 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: VP E23/2026) (2 POSTS)
Flash: Central Firearms Register: Business Licencing
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Veritas Building, Pretoria Central
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
137
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Receive, register, and process individual firearm applications on EFRS. Verify
application details and prepare documentation for consideration. Capture and
maintain accurate records on the system. Compile routine performance statistics.
Maintain an efficient and accessible filing system.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/222 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: VP E24/2026) (2 POSTS)
FLASH: Central Firearms Register: Arms Control Permits and Authorisations
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Veritas Building, Pretoria Central
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Receive, register, and process firearm temporary authorisation applications on
EFRS. Verify application details and prepare documentation for consideration.
Capture and maintain accurate records on the system. Compile routine
performance statistics. Maintain an efficient and accessible filing system.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/223 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: VP E25/2026)
FLASH: Liquor and Second-Hand Goods Service: Liquor Regulatory Services
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum
CENTRE : Suncadia Building, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : The performing of administrative support functions related to the section: liquor and
second-hand goods services. The rendering of office administration functions to
the section: liquor and second-hand goods services: liquor regulatory services. The
performing of document and correspondence management within the sub-section
liquor regulatory services. Assisting with the administration of performance
information, compiling and submitting of reports and maintenance of identified
liquor related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/224 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: VP E26/2026)
138
FLASH: Liquor and Second-Hand Goods Service: Second Hand Good
Compliance and Enforcement Services
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Suncadia Building, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : The performing of administrative support functions related to the section: liquor and
second-hand goods services. The rendering of office administration functions to
the section: liquor and second-hand goods services: compliance and enforcement.
The performing of document and correspondence management withing the sub-
section second-hand goods compliance and enforcement services. The assisting
with the administration of performance information, compiling and submitting of
reports and maintenance of identified second-hand goods related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/225 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: VP E27/2026)
FLASH: Support Services
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum
CENTRE : Suncadia Building, Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render administration duties, which include general administration as well as
specific administration duties.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/226 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: VP E31/2026)
Crime Prevention Services: Police Safety
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453.per annum
CENTRE : Midcity Building, 540 Pretorius Street Arcadia
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
139
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Process documents for the sub-section Police Safety. Assist with arrangements for
meetings and work sessions. Manage the filing and brought forward system. Co-
ordinate all administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/227 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: LS10/2026 (1X POST)
Division: Legal Services: Divisional Commissioner’s Office
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office/Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills And
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Perform administrative duties for the Office of the Divisional Commissioner: Legal
Services; Type, draft and edit documents received; Administer travel and
accommodation arrangements, itineraries, standing advances and financial claims;
Oversee and maintain correspondence and filing systems within the office
environment; Coordinate and manage logistical matters within the office; Provide
financial administrative support.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lt Colonel ME Mokholoane / Captain KM Sereetsi at Tel:
0664864393 / 0827733890 / 0827789176.
APPLICATIONS : Application forms may be posted or hand delivered to: 231 Pretorius Street,
Wachthuis Building, South African Police Services: National Head Office, Pretoria
0001 for attention: Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lieutenant Colonel ME Mokholoane
/ Captain KM Sereetsi. Via Email: NonkenyanaNL@saps.gov.za,
MokholoaneM@saps.gov.za, SereetsiK@saps.gov.za.
POST 22/228 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: LS11/2026 (1X POST)
Division: Legal Services: Litigation: Arbitrations (Nodal Point)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office/Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. *Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills And
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Attend to enquiries relating to disputes and maintain electronic databse of referrals;
Administer Private Arbitrations of Student Constables; Administer and ensure the
payment of cost order rulings emanating from Arbitrations.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lt Colonel ME Mokholoane / Captain KM Sereetsi at Tel:
0664864393 / 0827733890 / 0827789176.
APPLICATIONS : Application forms may be posted or hand delivered to: 231 Pretorius Street,
Wachthuis Building, South African Police Services: National Head Office, Pretoria
0001 for attention: Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lieutenant Colonel ME Mokholoane
/ Captain KM Sereetsi. Via Email: NonkenyanaNL@saps.gov.za,
MokholoaneM@saps.gov.za, SereetsiK@saps.gov.za.
POST 22/229 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: LS12/2026 (1X POST)
Division: Legal Services: Civil Litigation (Nodal Point):
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
140
CENTRE : Head Office/Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills And
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer and register new claims; Administer all new requests to register civilian
numbers on Polfin system; Record keeping of all files received and dispatched, all
court documents received; Acknowledge and dispatch files on the Registry and
Archive system Attend to enquiries from provinces and external role players.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lt Colonel ME Mokholoane / Captain KM Sereetsi at Tel:
0664864393 / 0827733890 / 0827789176.
APPLICATIONS : Application forms may be posted or hand delivered to: 231 Pretorius Street,
Wachthuis Building, South African Police Services: National Head Office, Pretoria
0001 for attention: Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lieutenant Colonel ME Mokholoane
/ Captain KM Sereetsi. Via Email: NonkenyanaNL@saps.gov.za,
MokholoaneM@saps.gov.za, SereetsiK@saps.gov.za.
POST 22/230 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: RIM 03/06/2029 (X1 POST)
Risk & Integrity Management: Office of the Chief Risk Officer
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. *An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Coordinate the CRO’s calendar, scheduling appointments, executive meetings,
and prioritizing urgent engagements. Prepare meeting agendas, gather necessary
documentation, and take accurate minutes during executive meetings. Book
boardrooms, manage catering, and organize necessary audiovisual equipment.
Type, format, and proofread confidential memos, presentations, and reports for the
CRO. Receive, screen, and route incoming/outgoing emails, calls, and physical
mail. Maintain secure physical and digital filing systems for sensitive records.
Obtain quotations, prepare procurement forms, and order office supplies and IT
equipment for the department. Check and process subsistence and travel (S&T)
claims, handle petty cash, and track office budgets. Book flights, accommodation,
and ground transportation for the CRO and departmental staff. Compile detailed
travel itineraries and prepare necessary travel documents.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to PretoriusK@saps.gov.za
POST 22/231 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REF NO: RIM 04/06/2029 (X1 POST)
Risk & Integrity Management: Management Information & Support:
SALARY : R23 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
141
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Assist in administrating the facilitation of Quarterly Review Sessions. Assist in
gathering, evaluation and provide senior management with the analysed
information. Assist with the maintenance of information per province and section.
Assist in gathering and consolidation of performance information per component.
Assist in monitoring the performance in terms of predetermined targets in the
Annual Performance Plan per component. Receive quarterly presentation for
Management Meetings. Assist with the preparation of presentation for quarterly
and annual reports. Assist with the compilation of the monitoring and evaluation
reports on the Component performance. Ensure provincial performance
information audit for quality control. Assist in managing the resources assigned to
Management Information and Strategic Planning.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to PretoriusK@saps.gov.za
POST 22/232 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (POST NUMBER: SM04/06/2026) (1X POST)
Component: Strategic Management:
Management Information and Support
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Core Functions: Administer and process procurement requisitions, including the
recording, capturing, monitoring, and tracking of procurement applications in
accordance with Supply Chain Management procedures. Coordinate the
acquisition, receipt, inspection, distribution, and control of equipment and stock,
ensuring compliance with organisational policies and inventory management
requirements. Maintain adequate stock levels through needs assessments, stock
monitoring, inventory control, and the accurate allocation of equipment and
consumables to end users. Process and monitor invoices, supplier payments, and
procurement-related enquiries, ensuring timely and accurate financial
administration. Maintain and update procurement systems, supplier databases,
procurement records, contract information, inventory registers, and asset
management records. Compile, maintain, and submit procurement, inventory,
supplier, and asset-related reports and documentation. Ensure effective record
management, accountability of assets and stock, and compliance with
procurement and supply chain management policies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Col GJ Tebe / Capt TL Legora / CAC BR Tiya / AC CH Waldeck at telephone: (012)
397 7250 / 7021 / 7025 / 7023.
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivered applications: Tulbagh Park, Drakenstein building, 101 Douglas
Street: Colbyn, Pretoria 0083. (Application must be deposited into the box available
at the reception area). Emailed applications: LegoraT@saps.gov.za /
TiyaBR@saps.gov.za / and waldeckc@saps.gov.za
142
POST 22/233 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK
Component Internal Audit
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Western Cape: Internal Audit: Ref No: IA28/06/2026 (1 Post)
Free State: Internal Audit: Ref No: IA29/06/2026 (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Type reports, letters, memorandums and monitor flow of documents to the office
of the Provincial head; Keep records of collected documents for the office of
Provincial Head; Scrutinize and capturing of all incoming and outgoing posts:
Complete and submit monthly vehicle allowance returns; Assist with secretarial
and admin support functions Assist with arranging travelling and subsistence
allowance for the province. Effective administration of a bring forward system.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Mukhesi / Captain A Dhlamini / Warrant Officer Selele on 063
697 2598/ 063 697 3155 / 082 569 8523.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Physical Address: Reception:
SAPS National Head Office: 231 Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building. Email:
RatshiedanaS@saps.gov.za and DhlaminiA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/234 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (REF NO: CR13/06/2026) (1 POST)
Component: Crime Registrar
Crime Registrar: Quality Assurance Section and Help Desk
SALARY : R237 453.per annum
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills, and
Competencies: General computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS
Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Strong planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support for the Section. Keep a well-organized
administrative system. Maintain an efficient filing system by ensuring systematic
classification, storage, retrieval and safeguarding of documents in accordance with
the approved records management policies. Ensure that performance-related
submissions and supporting evidence are accurately filed and easily accessible.
Implement a reminder system to track reporting deadlines and submissions.
Maintain an effective overall record management system for performance
information-related correspondence. Manage incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Coordinate the distribution of reporting templates, guidelines,
reporting schedules and related documentation. Maintain records of reporting
compliance. Compile administrative-related statistics relating to reporting
compliance and submission trends. Coordinate logistical arrangements for
meetings, preparation sessions and other related engagements. Prepare meeting
agendas, attendance registers and minute-taking documentation. Draft routine
correspondence.
ENQUIRIES : Col DB Mathebe / Lt Col B Sookraj / Captain TP Baloyi / W/O N Mahwai Tel No
(012) 360 1502 / 1524 / 1544
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses:
Postal Address: Private Bag X94, Pretoria,0001 OR Physical Address: No 463
Prieska Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria,0001 OR E-Mail address:
SookrajB@saps.gov.za/BaloyiPT@saps.gov.za and MahwaiN@saps.gov.za
143
POST 22/235 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK
Component: Crime Registrar
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Management Information and Support
Crime Registrar Mpumalanga (CR06/06/2026) (1 Post)
Crime Registrar Eastern Cape (CR07/06/2026) (2 Posts)
Crime Registrar Gauteng (CR08/06/2026) (1 Post)
Crime Registrar Western Cape (CR09/06/2026) (1 Post)
Crime Registrar Free State (CR10/06/2026) (1 Post)
Crime Registrar North West (CR11/06/2026) (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills, and
Competencies: General computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS
Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Strong planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support to the province pertaining to Finance,
Supply Chain Management and Human Resource Management functions for the
province. Keep a well-organized administrative system. Maintain an efficient filing
system by ensuring systematic classification, storage, retrieval and safeguarding
of documents in accordance with the approved records management policies.
Ensure that performance-related submissions and supporting evidence are
accurately filed and easily accessible. Implement a reminder system to track
reporting deadlines and submissions. Maintain an effective overall record
management system for performance information-related correspondence.
Manage incoming and outgoing correspondence. Coordinate the distribution of
reporting templates, guidelines, reporting schedules and related documentation.
Maintain records of reporting compliance. Compile administrative-related statistics
relating to reporting compliance and submission trends. Coordinate logistical
arrangements for meetings, preparation sessions and other related engagements.
Prepare meeting agendas, attendance registers and minute-taking documentation.
Draft routine correspondence.
ENQUIRIES : Col DB Mathebe / Lt Col B Sookraj / Captain TP Baloyi / W/O N Mahwai Tel No
(012) 360 1502 / 1524 / 1544
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses:
Postal Address: Private Bag X94, Pretoria,0001 OR Physical Address: No 463
Prieska Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria,0001 OR E-Mail address:
SookrajB@saps.gov.za/BaloyiPT@saps.gov.za and MahwaiN@saps.gov.za
POST 22/236 : SECRETARY (POST NUMBER: PPS03/2026) (1X POST)
Office of the Component Head
Component: Presidential Protection Service
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : HQ: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Be a citizen of the
Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day
of the interview. Relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as an added
advantage. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: General computer literacy skills
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Sound planning,
organizing, administrative and problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and
extended hours.
DUTIES : Core Functions: To perform secretarial duties for the Head: PPS. Coordinate
meetings with internal and external role players. Monitor the flow of
correspondence within the office of the Head: PPS. Uphold the confidentiality of all
classified documents as per the MISS. Coordinate all travelling arrangements of
the Head: PPS. Manage and exercise control over human, physical and financial
resources allocated to the post.
144
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Kganyago Tel No: 012 400 5310/ Warrant Officer Sithebe on
012 400 5186/ Warrant Officer Mnyalatyho 012 400 5105/ AC Sekwape 012 400
5137/ AC Modiha/ HRC Sibande 012 400 5147
APPLICATIONS : HQ: Pretoria: Applications can be posted / hand delivered to the following address:
Private Bag x 272 Pretoria 0002 or 3 Troye and Park Street, Protection Service,
Maupa Naga Building Sunnyside 0002 or e-mailed to: Kganyagonn@saps.gov.za
/ SithebeS@saps.gov.za / MnyalatyhoLL@saps.gov.za /
SekwapeND@saps.gov.za / SibandeK@saps.gov.za / ModihaI@saps.gov.za
POST 22/237 : SECRETARY (5 POSTS)
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Section Head: Firearm Compliance and Enforcement: Sancardia Building, Arcadia
(Ref No: VP E14/2026)
Section Head: Central Firearms Register: Veritas Building, Pretoria Central (Ref
No: VP E15/2026)
Section Head: Liquor and Second-Hand Goods Services: Sancardia Building,
Arcadia (Ref No: VP E16/2026)
Section Head: Veterinary Services: Roodeplaat, Pretoria (Ref No: VP E17/2026)
Section Head: Front Line Services: Midcity Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia
(Ref No: VP E18/2026)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Perform secretariat duties and provide administrative support. Maintain the diary
of the Senior Manager, schedule meetings, assist with minute taking and visitors.
Arrange travel logistics including flights and accommodation. Maintain an effective
record and administration service. Maintain confidentiality in the workplace.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/238 : SECRETARY REF NR: FMS 10/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Internal Control
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial support functions to the Section Head. Type and consolidate
reports, letters, memorandums and monitor flow of documents (manually and
electronically) to and from the office of the Section Head. Arranging of and keeping
and producing minutes of meetings when so required. Assist in managing the diary
(manually and electronically) to receive and host visitors of the Section Head.
Keeping a bring-forward system (manually and electronically) of all pending
matters. Arrange travelling and accommodation with subsistence advances and
allowance for the Section Head. Manage the office inventory.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
145
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/239 : SECRETARY REF NR: FMS 13/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Expenditure Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To provide secretarial support functions to the Section Head. Type and consolidate
reports, letters, memorandums and monitor flow of documents (manually and
electronically) to and from the office of the Section Head. Arranging of and keeping
and producing minutes of meetings when so required Assist to manage the diary
(manually and electronically) to receive and host visitors of the Section Head.
Keeping a bring-forward system (manually and electronically) of all pending
matters Arrange travelling and accommodation with subsistence advances and
allowance for the Section Head. Manage the office inventory.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/240 : SECRETARY REF NR FMS 17/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Component Head: Compensation Services
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial support functions to the Component Head. Type and
consolidate reports, letters, memorandums and monitor flow of documents
(manually and electronically) to and from the office of the Component Head.
Arranging of and keeping and producing minutes of meetings when so required.
Assist to manage the diary (manually and electronically) to receive and host visitors
of the Component Head. Keeping a bring-forward system (manually and
electronically) of all pending matters Arrange travelling and accommodation with
subsistence advances and allowance for the Component Head. Manage the office
inventory.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/241 : SECRETARY (X 5 POSTS)
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
146
Office of the Section Head: Investigation Systems Management (Post Number:
TMS 10/2026)
Office of the Section Head: Converged Communication Services (Post Number
TMS 11/2026)
Office of the Section Head: IS/ICT Portfolio Governance (Post Number TMS
12/2026)
Office of the Section Head: Applications Portfolio Management (Post Number TMS
13/2026)
Office of the Section Head: Technology Governance Management (Post Number
TMS 14/2026)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public Service.
Good verbal and written communication skills. General Computer literacy (MS
Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong interpersonal
skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning,
Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills.
Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render administrative support functions within the environment. Receive files and
documents and forward to the relevant Head, Section Head, and Section
Commander. Dispatch files and documents and record outgoing correspondence.
Manage the diary of the Head of the office for internal and external engagements.
Draft and type documents for the environment. Arrange, schedule and organise
meetings or appointments and remind the personnel within the environment of
such meetings. Co-ordinate travel arrangements, including accommodation and
subsistence allowances as well as claims. Assist the environment with general
administrative duties including logistics, supply chain management, financial
services and human resources.
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to: Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets;Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/242 : SECRETARY (REF NO: AUX/04/2026) (1 POST)
SAPS Auxiliary Services: Records Management and sundry Services
Component Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirements: Applicants must display competency in the core functions
of the post. Be proficient in at least English and one other official language. Be a
citizen of the Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be
furnished on the day of the interview. Be in possession of a Grade 12 / Senior
Certificate / NCV Level 4 or equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by
SAQA). Relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies: General computer literacy (MS Word, MS
Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Strong planning, organizing,
administrative and problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To provide secretarial and administrative support to the office of the Section Head.
To perform professional secretarial assignments to the commander/manager.
Maintain effective records and administration services. Plan and organize
meetings/workshops. Draft and type official documents and correspondence.
Maintain office manager/commander diary and schedule future
appointments/meetings. Deliver an effective communication phone service.
Schedule and arrange travel and subsistence allowances. Receive and welcome
visitors. Administer general office correspondence/documents. Maintain
database/filing system/register and trace documents. Protect integrity and invade
unauthorized access of files/records. Compile and consolidate reports/returns.
Address challenges/complaints and communicate to management. Operate and
maintain standard office equipment. Determine office needs and order office
suppliers and equipment. Liaise with commander/manager to schedule the
147
meetings/workshops. Invite role player and circulate meeting/workshop
documentation. Apply and order meetings/workshops refreshments. Coordinate
attendees/visitors transport/parking from and to respective places/venues. Record
and communicate approved meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Captain MN Maswanganyi Tel No (012) 393 1023 / 4967 / 1453
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag
X94, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical Address: 231 Pretorius Street, Wachthuis
Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR E-Mail address: MadavhaA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/243 : SECRETARY REF NO: ESIR 07/06/2026 (X1 POST)
Section Head Executive Secretariat
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To provide secretarial support functions to the Section Head. Arrange, prepare
meetings, agendas, typing and taking Minutes. Answer and screen all incoming
calls to the office of the Section Head. Liaise with other Sections and components
on matters relating to the Section Head’s office. Maintain good Recordkeeping,
filling and bring forward system. Handle confidential documents. Process and
submit claims, make travelling and accommodation arrangements. Manage the
diary as well as receive and host visitors of the office. Operate standard equipment
(fax, photocopy machine, telephone, Computer etc.). Serving refreshment to
visitors and during Meetings. Manage office inventory.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to MashiloaneK@saps.gov.za
POST 22/244 : SECRETARY
Division Detective Services
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
Serious & Violent Crime: Office of The Head: Ref No: DET 06/2026 (1 Post)
Crime Investigation Service: Office of The Head: Ref No: DET 07/2026 (1 Post)
Harmful Occult Related Practices, Missing Persons and Crime Stop: Office of The
Head: Ref No: DET 08/2026 (1 Post)
Crime Investigation Coordination – Group C: Office of The Head: Ref No: DET
09/2026 (1 Post)
Anti-Gang Investigations: Office of The Section Head: Ref No: DET 10/2026 (1
Post)
Trans National Investigations: Office of The Section Head: Ref No: DET 11/2026
(1 Post)
Operational Desk and Projects Investigations: Office of The Section Head: Ref No:
DET 12/2026 (1 Post)
Pretoria: Centurion (La Rochelle Building): Priority Investigations Service: Office of
the Section Head: Ref No: DET 13/2026 (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
148
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render administrative support functions, Administer logistical matters. Maintain
leave records, registers and files. Answer and Screen all incoming call to the office
of the Section. Ensure record of all incoming and outgoing documents and
correspondence Type reports, letters, minutes, agendas, handle confidential
documents, keeping record of the minutes and monitor flow of documents to the
office of the Section Head. Liaise with other components and sections on matters
relating to the office of the Principal. Receive and hosts visitors in the office.
Serving refreshments to visitors during meetings. Arrange and book venues for the
meetings in accordance with the number of people expected to attend. Maintain
good record keeping, filing and bring forward system. Operate standard equipment
(photocopy machine, telephone and computers)
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel WB Chauke / Captain S Ntuli / PPO Kgwedi at (012) 393 1633/
4478 / 1277.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag x
302 Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 237
Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building.Email: Detectiverecruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/245 : SECRETARY (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Risk & Integrity Management
Section Head: Integrity Management: RIM 05/06/2026
Section Head: Risk Management: RIM 06/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To provide secretarial support functions to the Section Head. Arrange, prepare
meetings, agendas, typing and taking minutes. Answer and screen all incoming
calls to the office of the section Head. Liaise with other Sections and components
on matters relating to the Section Head’s office. Maintain good Recordkeeping,
filling and bring forward system. Handle confidential documents. Process and
submit claims, make travelling and accommodation arrangement. Manage the
diary as well as receive and host visitors of the office. Operate standard equipment
(fax, photocopy machine, telephone, computer). Serving refreshment to visitors
and during meetings. Manage office inventory.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to PretoriusK@saps.gov.za
POST 22/246 : SECRETARY REF NO: CS 05/06/2026 (X1 POST)
Section Head: Corporate Support
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
149
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To provide secretarial support functions to the Section Head. Arrange, prepare
meetings, agendas, typing and taking Minutes. Answer and screen all incoming
calls to the office of the Section Head. Liaise with other Sections and components
on matters relating to the Section Head’s office. Maintain good Recordkeeping,
filling and bring forward system. Handle confidential documents. Process and
submit claims, make travelling and accommodation arrangements. Manage the
diary as well as receive and host visitors of the office. Operate standard equipment
(fax, photocopy machine, telephone, Computer etc.). Serving refreshment to
visitors and during Meetings. Manage office inventory.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to TshabalalaBeauty@saps.gov.za
POST 22/247 : SECRETARY (2X POSTS)
Component: Strategic Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria
Strategy Development and SDI Coordination (Post Number: SM05/06/2026)
Project Management (Post Number: SM06/06/2026)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Core Functions: Provide comprehensive secretarial, administrative, and office
support services to management. Draft, prepare, process, and maintain official
correspondence, reports, records, and other administrative documentation.
Manage diaries, appointments, meetings, workshops, travel arrangements, and
office schedules. Coordinate meetings and workshops, including stakeholder
liaison, logistics, documentation, minute-taking, and communication of outcomes.
Administer office communication systems, visitor reception services, and
stakeholder enquiries. Maintain and manage filing systems, databases, registers,
and records, ensuring the confidentiality, security, and integrity of information.
Compile, consolidate, and submit administrative reports, returns, and related
documentation. Operate and maintain office equipment and coordinate the
procurement and management of office supplies and resources. Address
administrative enquiries and complaints and provide effective general office
administration support in accordance with organisational policies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Col GJ Tebe / Capt TL Legora / CAC BR Tiya / AC CH Waldeck at telephone: (012)
397 7250 / 7021 / 7025 / 7023.
APPLICATIONS : Hand delivered applications: Tulbagh Park, Drakenstein building, 101 Douglas
Street: Colbyn, Pretoria 0083. (Application must be deposited into the box available
at the reception area). Emailed applications: LegoraT@saps.gov.za /
TiyaBR@saps.gov.za / and waldeckc@saps.gov.za
POST 22/248 : SECRETARY REF NO: LS08/2026 (1X POST)
Division: Legal Services: Component Head: Litigation
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office/Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage .Knowledge, Skills And
150
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Keeping the diary accurately, coordinate meetings and remind the Component
Head on meeting schedules; Arrange and book venues for the meetings in
accordance with the number of people expected to attend; Arrange refreshments
for the attendees of the meeting; Handle routine correspondence; Type
documents, reports, letters, memorandums etc. Effective administration of a bring-
forward system; Make travel and accommodation arrangements; Organize related
documentation for overseas trips and submit claims of accommodation and
expenditure after trips.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lt Colonel ME Mokholoane / Captain KM Sereetsi at Tel:
0664864393 / 0827733890 / 0827789176.
APPLICATIONS : Application forms may be posted or hand delivered to: 231 Pretorius Street,
Wachthuis Building, South African Police Services: National Head Office, Pretoria
0001 for attention: Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lieutenant Colonel ME Mokholoane
/ Captain KM Sereetsi. Via Email: NonkenyanaNL@saps.gov.za,
MokholoaneM@saps.gov.za, SereetsiK@saps.gov.za.
POST 22/249 : SECRETARY REF NO: LS09/2026 (1X POST)
Division: Legal Services: Section Head: Civil Litigation
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office/Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills And
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Keeping the diary accurately, coordinate meetings and remind the Section Head
on meeting schedules; Arrange and book venues for the meetings in accordance
with the number of people expected to attend; Arrange refreshments for the
attendees of the meeting; Handle routine correspondence; Type documents,
reports, letters, memorandums etc. Effective administration of a bring-forward
system; Make travel and accommodation arrangements; Organize related
documentation for overseas trips and submit claims of accommodation and
expenditure after trips.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lt Colonel ME Mokholoane / Captain KM Sereetsi at Tel:
0664864393 / 0827733890 / 0827789176.
APPLICATIONS : Application forms may be posted or hand delivered to: 231 Pretorius Street,
Wachthuis Building, South African Police Services: National Head Office, Pretoria
0001 for attention: Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lieutenant Colonel ME Mokholoane
/ Captain KM Sereetsi. Via Email: NonkenyanaNL@saps.gov.za,
MokholoaneM@saps.gov.za, SereetsiK@saps.gov.za.
POST 22/250 : SECRETARY
Component Internal Audit
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office: Risk Based & Compliance Audit Ref No: IA30/06/2026 (1
Post)
Mpumalanga: Internal Audit: Ref No: IA31/06/2026 (1 Post)
Limpopo: Internal Audit: Ref No: IA32/06/2026 (1 Post)
Western Cape: Internal Audit: Ref No: IA33/06/2026 (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
151
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive secretarial, administrative, and office support services to
management. Draft, prepare, process, and maintain official correspondence,
reports, records, and other administrative documentation. Manage diaries,
appointments, meetings, workshops, travel arrangements, and office schedules.
Coordinate meetings and workshops, including stakeholder liaison, logistics,
documentation, minute-taking, and communication of outcomes. Administer office
communication systems, visitor reception services, and stakeholder enquiries.
Maintain and manage filing systems, databases, registers, and records, ensuring
the confidentiality, security, and integrity of information. Compile, consolidate, and
submit administrative reports, returns, and related documentation. Operate and
maintain office equipment and coordinate the procurement and management of
office supplies and resources. Address administrative enquiries and complaints
and provide effective general office administration support in accordance with
organisational policies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Mukhesi / Captain A Dhlamini / Warrant Officer Selele on 063
697 2598/ 063 697 3155 / 082 569 8523.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Physical Address: Reception:
SAPS National Head Office: 231 Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building.Email:
RatshiedanaS@saps.gov.za and DhlaminiA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/251 : CRIME STOP OPERATORS DET 16/2026 (12 POSTS)
Division Detective Services
Training College (Mob Support – Crime Stop)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Pretoria West -SAPS
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and
problem-solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Process and dispatch Crime Information received via 0860010111(Crime Stop)
0800 911 011(Extortion), MY SAPS mobile App and on Social Media platforms*
Request regular feedback on pending cases dispatched for investigation and
update status Management of all state resources Compile daily and monthly
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel WB Chauke / Captain S Ntuli / PPO Kgwedi at (012) 393 1633/
4478 / 1277.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag x
302 Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 237
Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building.Email: Detectiverecruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/252 : DRIVER (5X POSTS)
Component: Presidential Protection Service
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 3)
: HQ: Pretoria - Supply Chain Management (Post Number: PPS 08/2026) (3 Posts)
Western Cape: Cape Town - Supply Chain Management (Post Number: PPS
09/2026) (1 Post)
KwaZulu-Natal: Durban - Supply Chain Management (Post Number: PPS 10/2026)
(1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 10/ Standard 8/ NCV Level 2 or certificate/
report (NQF 2 Level as recognized by SAQA) of which documentary proof can be
produced when required. Be a citizen of the Republic of South Africa of which
documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the interview. At least two (2)
years’ relevant experience in the field of the post. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: Good verbal and written communication skills. Be fluent in at least
two official languages one of which must be English. *Be in possession of at least
a light motor vehicle license and Public Driving Permit (PDP). Be willing to work
extended hours when necessary. High levels of integrity, reliability and punctuality.
DUTIES : Core Functions: Transport equipment, vehicles and personnel at the province.
Ensure maintenance of allocated state vehicles. Completion of log sheets and
152
monthly returns. Book vehicles at the garage for service and repairs. Uphold the
confidentiality of all classified documents as per the MISS.
ENQUIRIES : HQ: Pretoria: Lieutenant Colonel Kganyago Tel No: 012 400 5310/ Warrant Officer
Sithebe on 012 400 5186/ Warrant Officer Mnyalatyho 012 400 5105/ AC Sekwape
012 400 5137/ AC Modiha /HRC Sibande 012 400 5147
Kwazulu-Natal (Durban): Lieutenant Colonel Mkhize / Lieutenant Colonel
Malinga/ AC Msani / AC Zondo / Secretary Sithole on Tel No: 031 203 7328
Western Cape (Cape Town): Lieutenant Colonel Kamana / Captain Teyise / AC
Sofika/AC Sylvester on Tel No: 021 467 6485/6499
APPLICATIONS : HQ: Pretoria: Applications can be posted / hand delivered to the following address:
Private Bag x 272 Pretoria 0002 or 3 Troye and Park Street, Protection Service,
Maupa Naga Building Sunnyside 0002 or e-mailed to: Kganyagonn@saps.gov.za
/ SithebeS@saps.gov.za / MnyalatyhoLL@saps.gov.za /
SekwapeND@saps.gov.za / SibandeK@saps.gov.za / ModihaI@saps.gov.za
Kwazulu-Natal (Durban): Applications can be posted / hand delivered to the
following address: 446 Vusi Mzimela Road Cato Manor 4058 and e-mailed to:
MkhizeSiyabonga@saps.gov.za / MalingaZ@saps.gov.za /
MsaniLL@saps.gov.za / ZondoN1@saps.gov.za / SitholeNL2@saps.gov.za
Western Cape (Cape Town): Applications must be posted / hand delivered to the
following address:121 Garmour House Plein Street Cape Town 8001 and e-mailed
to: KamanaEN@saps.gov.za / TeyiseS@saps.gov.za / cpt-ppu@saps.gov.za
POST 22/253 : SECURITY OFFICERS (X 5 POSTS)
Division Visible Policing
Support Services: Financial and Administration Services
SALARY : R170 226.per annum (Level 3)
CENTRE : Midcity Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia (Ref No: VP E32/2026) (2 Posts)
Flash: Central Firearm Register Veritas Building, Pretoria Central (Ref No: VP
E33/2026) (3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of a Grade 10/ Standard 8/ NCV level 2 certificate/
report (NQF level 2 as recognized by SAQA), for which documentary proof can be
produced when required. Valid Registration with the Private Security Industry
Regulatory Authority (PSIRA). Be in possession of at least a Grade C security
certificate or higher. Not declared unfit to possess a fire-arm. Be willing to undergo
firearm competency training and to maintain firearm competency. Relevant
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will also serve as an added advantage. Be
willing to work shifts and extended hours. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of access control procedures. Knowledge of measures for the control
and movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed security
procedures (e.g., MIS, NISA, Protection of Information Act, etc.) and the authority
of security officers under these documents. Knowledge of the relevant emergency
procedures.
DUTIES : Execute Access Control in terms of the Control of Access to Public Premises and
Vehicles Act (Act No. 53 of 1985); Positive identification of employees, visitors and
contactors at the security access point; Registering of employees, visitors and
contractors, electronic searching of employees, visitors and contractors; Authorize
entry in to the premises to employees, visitors and contractors after complying with
all the legislative requirements, confirm visits with the hosts and ensure escort in
line with the prescripts; Issue admission control cards to visitors and receive them
back; Keep the necessary visitor’s register; Check suppliers, articles and objects,
where necessary, before they are allowed to be brought into the premises to
ensure that the safety of the premises will not be threatened; Patrol buildings and
fenced-off areas; Guard vehicles and equipment in the field – ONLY from a security
point of view; Check all security equipment and facilities and take action, when
necessary; Bring any deficiencies or problems with regard to security matters to
the attention of senior security personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/254 : SECURITY GUARD POST NUMBER: TMS 23/2026 (X5 POSTS)
Section: Auxiliary Services
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 3)
CENTRE : Head Office
153
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Be in possession of a Grade 10/ Standard 8/ NCV level 2 certificate/
report (NQF level 2 as recognized by SAQA), for which documentary proof can be
produced when required. Valid Registration with the Private Security Industry
Regulatory Authority (PSIRA). Be in possession of at least a Grade C security
certificate or higher. Not declared unfit to possess a firearm. Be willing to undergo
firearm competency training and to maintain firearm competency. Relevant
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle, will also serve as an added advantage. Be
willing to work shifts and extended hours. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of access control procedures. Knowledge of measures for the control
and movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed security
procedures (e.g., MIS, NISA, Protection of Information Act, etc.) and the authority
of security officers under these documents. Knowledge of the relevant emergency
procedures.
DUTIES : Execute Access Control in terms of the Control of Access to Public Premises and
Vehicles Act (Act No. 53 of 1985). Positive identification of employees, visitors and
contactors at the security access point. Registering of employees, visitors and
contractors, electronic searching of employees, visitors and contractors. Authorize
entry into the premises to employees, visitors and contractors after complying with
all the legislative requirements. Confirm visits with the hosts and ensure escort in
line with the prescripts; Keep the necessary visitor’s register. Check suppliers,
articles and objects, where necessary, before they are allowed to be brought into
the premises to ensure that the safety of the premises will not be threatened; Patrol
buildings and fenced-off areas. Guard vehicles and equipment in the premises.
Check all security equipment and facilities and act, when necessary. Bring any
deficiencies or problems about security matters to the attention of senior security
personnel. Perform administrative duties
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets;Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/255 : MESSENGER REF NO: IA34/06/2026 (1 POST)
Component Internal Audit
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office: Internal Audit
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of a Grade 10 / Standard 8 certificate / NCV Level 2
certificate / report (NQF Level 2 recognized by SAQA), for which documentary
proof can be produced when required. No experience required. Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies: Good verbal and written communication skills. Basic
administrative skills for managing delivery logbooks, signing for documents and
organizing files. Ability to read maps, follow directions and understand traffic rules
for managing deliveries. High levels of integrity, reliability and punctuality. Be
willing to work extended hours, when necessary.
DUTIES : To provide an effective and efficient messenger delivery services. To Collect and
deliver post, parcels, files and other forms of documentation between offices.
Perform general administration/messenger tasks. Render transport services to the
Component Internal Audit.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Mukhesi / Captain A Dhlamini / Warrant Officer Selele on 063
697 2598/ 063 697 3155 / 082 569 8523.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Physical Address: Reception:
SAPS National Head Office: 231 Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building. Email:
RatshiedanaS@saps.gov.za and DhlaminiA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/256 : MESSENGER REF NO: CS 06/06/2026 (X1 POST)
Section Head Corporate Support: Finance & Administration
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of a Grade 10/ Standard 8/ NCV level 2 certificate/
154
report (NQF level 2 as recognized by SAQA), for which documentary proof can be
produced when required. No experience required.Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: Good verbal and written communication skills. Basic administrative
skills for managing delivery logbooks, signing for documents and organizing files.
Ability to read maps, follow directions and understand traffic rules for managing
deliveries. High levels of integrity, reliability and punctuality. Be willing to work
extended hours, when necessary.
DUTIES : Collect, sort, and deliver documents, files, and parcels to addressees, other
departments, and the Post Office. Perform pre-trip inspections, manage fuel
cards/vouchers, maintain logbooks, and drive departmental vehicles safely. Assist
with copying, shredding, filing, and managing registry services. Follow the Public
Service Act, Batho Pele principles, and departmental policies. Good
communication, time management, and basic computer literacy.
ENQUIRIES : Capt NM Pretorius / W/O TB Tshabalala at telephone: 068 338 7047 / 082 906
7372
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: 152 Johannes Ramakhoase
Street, Telkom Towers North, Pretoria. Application must be deposited into the box
available at the reception area. Applications forwarded by post to be addressed to
The Section Head: Corporate Support, (Attention: Captain Pretorius / W/O
Tshabalala), Corporate Support, South African Police Service, Private Bag X 94,
Pretoria, 0001 or e-mailed to TshabalalaBeauty@saps.gov.za
POST 22/257 : MESSENGER REF NO: LS15/2026 (1X POST)
Division: Legal Services: Support Services: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : Head Office/Pretoria:
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. *Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of a Grade 10/ Standard 8/ NCV level 2
certificate/report (NQF level 2 as recognized by SAQA), for which documentary
proof can be produced when required. No experience required. Must have a valid
driver’s license. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Good verbal and written
communication skills. Basic administrative skills for managing delivery logbooks,
signing for documents and organizing files. Ability to read maps, follow directions
and understand traffic rules for managing deliveries. High levels of integrity,
reliability and punctuality. Be willing to work extended hours, when necessary.
DUTIES : Provide an effective messenger delivery service; Collect and deliver post, files and
other documentation for various destinations.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lt Colonel ME Mokholoane / Captain KM Sereetsi at Tel:
0664864393 / 0827733890 / 0827789176.
APPLICATIONS : Application forms may be posted or hand delivered to: 231 Pretorius Street,
Wachthuis Building, South African Police Services: National Head Office, Pretoria
0001 for attention: Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lieutenant Colonel ME Mokholoane
/ Captain KM Sereetsi. Via Email: NonkenyanaNL@saps.gov.za,
MokholoaneM@saps.gov.za, SereetsiK@saps.gov.za.
POST 22/258 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NR: FMS 21/2026 (1 POST)
Division: Financial Management Services
Office Of The CFO
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of a Grade 10/ Standard 8/ NCV level 2 certificate/
report (NQF level 2 as recognized by SAQA), for which documentary proof can be
produced when required. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Basic cooking,
modifying meals for standard diets, preparing snacks and conveying cookery/
cutlery. Knowledge of food safety, applying occupational health and safety
protocol, sanitizing surfaces, handling hazardous waste and proper storing of
ingredients. Ability to operate elementary machines and equipment. Willing to work
extended hours, when necessary.
DUTIES : Prepare and serve refreshments. Organise and keep the kitchen hygienically
clean. Manage the stock levels.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel LF Seletela, Lieutenant Colonel H De Lange and Lieutenant Colonel Q
Nkoma at (012) 393 1224/ 4425/ 4122
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Postal Address: Private Bag x 94
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 231 Pretorius
Street, Watchthuis Building, Pretoria. Email: FMS-Recruitment@saps.gov.za
POST 22/259 : CLEANER
155
Component Internal Audit
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : Free State; Internal Audit: Ref No: IA35/06/2026 (1 Post)
North West: Internal Audit: Ref No: IA36/06/2026 (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of abet Level 4 / Grade 9 / Standard 7 certificate / report
(NQF Level 1 recognized by SAQA), for which documentary proof can be produced
when required. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Understanding of how to
handle cleaning detergents. Occupational Health and Safety protocol. Basic
literacy, numeracy and communication skills. Be able to read and write. Ability to
interact with other officials in a professional manner. The ability to operate
elementary machines and equipment. Willing to work extended hours when
necessary.
DUTIES : Maintaining of high-level hygiene in and around SAPS premises where routine
tasks are to be performed, which may include inner or outer parameters,
performing routine tasks such as dusting furniture and floors, removing refuse
bags, mopping of all tiled floors, cleaning bathrooms, kitchenware and utensils,
safekeeping and handling of variety of cleaning materials, loading and unloading
of goods.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Mukhesi / Captain A Dhlamini / Warrant Officer Selele on 063
697 2598/ 063 697 3155 / 082 569 8523.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following address: Physical Address: Reception:
SAPS National Head Office: 231 Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building. Email:
RatshiedanaS@saps.gov.za and DhlaminiA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/260 : CLEANER
Management Information and Support
Component: Crime Registrar
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : Crime Registrar Head Office: Pretoria (CR01/06/2026) (1 Post)
Crime Registrar Western Cape (CR02/06/2026) (1 Post)
Crime Registrar Northern Cape (CR03/06/2026) (1 Post)
Crime Registrar North West (CR04/06/2026) (1 Post)
Crime Registrar Kwa-Zulu Natal (CR05/06/2026) (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be
proficient in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the
Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished. Be in
possession of ABET Level 4/ Grade 9/ Standard 7 certificate/ report (NQF level 1
as recognized by SAQA), for which documentary proof can be produced when
required. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Understanding of how to handle
cleaning detergents. Occupational Health and Safety protocol. Basic literacy,
numeracy and communication skills. Be able to read and write. Ability to interact
with other officials in a professional manner. The ability to operate elementary
machines and equipment. Willing to work extended hours when necessary.
DUTIES : Maintaining high-level hygiene in the workplace where routine tasks are performed,
which may include inner parameters. Perform routine tasks such as dusting,
polishing furniture and floors, removing refuse bags, mopping all tiled flooring and
vacuum carpets. Cleaning bathrooms and kitchens. Safekeeping and handling of
cleaning materials. Loading and unloading of goods. Washing and cleaning
kitchenware and utensils.
ENQUIRIES : Col DB Mathebe / Lt Col B Sookraj / Captain TP Baloyi / W/O N Mahwai Tel No
(012) 360 1502 / 1524 / 1544
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses:
Postal Address: Private Bag X94, Pretoria,0001 OR Physical Address: No 463
Prieska Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria,0001 or E-Mail address:
SookrajB@saps.gov.za/BaloyiPT@saps.gov.za and MahwaiN@saps.gov.za
POST 22/261 : CLEANER REF NO: LS14/2026 (1X POST)
Division: Legal Services: Support Services: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R144 024.per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : Head Office/Pretoria:
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. *Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of ABET Level 4/ Grade 9/ Standard 7/ NQF Level 1
for which documentary proof can be produced when required. Knowledge, Skills
156
And Competencies: Understanding of how to handle cleaning detergents;
Occupational Health and Safety protocol; Basic literacy, numeracy and
communication skills; Be able to read and write; Ability to interact with other officials
in a professional manner; The ability to operate elementary machines and
equipment; Willing to work extended hours when necessary.
DUTIES : Maintaining of high-level hygiene in and around the SAPS premises where routine
tasks are to be performed, which may include inner or outer parameters;
Performing routine tasks such as dusting furniture and floors, removing refuse
bags; Mopping of all tiled floors; Cleaning bathrooms, kitchenware and utensils;
Safekeeping and handling of a variety of cleaning materials; Loading and unloading
of goods.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lt Colonel ME Mokholoane / Captain KM Sereetsi at Tel:
0664864393 / 0827733890 / 0827789176.
APPLICATIONS : Application forms may be posted or hand delivered to: 231 Pretorius Street,
Wachthuis Building, South African Police Services: National Head Office, Pretoria
0001 for attention: Colonel NL Nonkenyana / Lieutenant Colonel ME Mokholoane
/ Captain KM Sereetsi. Via Email: NonkenyanaNL@saps.gov.za,
MokholoaneM@saps.gov.za, SereetsiK@saps.gov.za.
POST 22/262 : CLEANER POST NUMBER: TMS 24/2026 ( X4 POSTS)
Section: Auxiliary Services
Division: Technology Management Services
SALARY : R144 024.per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview Be in possession of ABET Level 4/ Grade 9/ Standard 7 certificate/ report
(NQF level 1 as recognized by SAQA), for which documentary proof can be
produced when required. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Understanding of
how to handle leaning detergents; Occupational Health and Safety protocol; Basic
literacy, numeracy and communication skills; Be able to read and write; Ability to
interact with other officials in a professional manner; The ability to operate
elementary machines and equipment; Willing to work extended hours when
necessary.
DUTIES : Maintaining a high level of hygiene in and around the workplace with the cleaning
of the SAPS premises assigned to, which may include either or both inner and
outer parameters. Performing tasks of a routine nature, such as dusting. Polish
furniture and floors. Vacuum carpets and mopping tile floors. Remove refuses /
bins. Clean bathrooms and kitchens. Safekeeping and handling of a variety of
cleaning aids in the premises. Loading and unloading of goods
ENQUIRIES : Lt Col G Xoko/ Captain WD Maimela / PO J Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/
8884/ 7964
APPLICATIONS : Application forms must be hand delivered or emailed to the following addresses:
Enquiries can be directed to: Lt Col G Xoko //Captain WD Maimela / PO J
Nkadimeng at Tel: 012 432 7709/ 8884/ 7964 and email applications to :Email
Address: tms.vacancies@saps.gov.za and hand delivery to Office No. PPS
138/143; 1234 Tulbagh Park Building; Cnr. Stanza Bopape (Church) and Jan
Shoba (Duncan) Streets;Hatfield, PRETORIA
POST 22/263 : CLEANER (REF NO: AUX/10/2026) (3 POSTS)
SAPS Auxiliary Services: Records Management and Sundry Services
Component Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R144 024.per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirements: Applicants must display competency in the core functions
of the post. Be proficient in at least English and one other official language. Be a
citizen of the Republic of South Africa of which documentary proof must be
furnished on the day of the interview. Be in possession of ABET Level 4 / Grade 9
/ Standard 7 certificate / report (NQF level 1 as recognized by SAQA), for which
documentary proof can be produced when required. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: Understanding of how to handle cleaning detergents. Occupational
Health and Safety protocol. Basic literacy, numeracy and communication skills. Be
able to read and write. Ability to interact with other officials in a professional
manner. The ability to operate elementary machines and equipment. Willing to
work extended hours when necessary.
DUTIES : To physically carry out various basic functions regarding the rendering of cleaning
services in order to maintain high level of hygiene in and around the work place.
Perform cleaning services of routine nature by utilizing variety of aids. Perform
housekeeping duties. Dust working environment. Polish furniture of the sections.
Vacuum carpets of the sections. Clean passages, floors and stairs. Remove
157
refuse. Clean toilets. Clean offices and conference rooms. Perform ad hoc cleaning
tasks in and around premises.
ENQUIRIES : Captain MN Maswanganyi Tel No (012) 393 1023 / 4967 / 1453
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag
X94, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical Address: 231 Pretorius Street, Wachthuis
Building, Pretoria, 0001 OR E-Mail address: MadavhaA@saps.gov.za
POST 22/264 : CLEANER (X 8 POSTS)
Division Visible Policing
SALARY : R144 024.per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : Support Services: Financial and Administration Services: Midcity Building, 540
Pretorius Street (Ref No: VP E34/2026) (2 Posts)
Rapid Rail Police: Gauteng North and Limpopo: Silverton (Ref No: VP E35/2026)
Rapid Rail Police: Western Cape: Retreat Corridor: Western Cape (Ref No: VP
E36/2026)
Rapid Rail Police: Western Cape: Bellville Corridor: Western Cape (Ref No: VP
E37/2026)
Veterinary Services: Roodeplaat (Ref No:VP E38/2026) (2 Posts)
K9 and Mounted Services: Atteridgeville: Pretoria West (Ref No: VP E39/2026)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of ABET Level 4/ Grade 9/ Standard 7/ NQF Level 1
for which documentary proof can be produced when required. Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies. Understanding of how to handle cleaning detergents.
Occupational Health and Safety protocol. Basic literacy, numeracy and
communication skills. Be able to read and write; Ability to interact with other officials
in a professional manner. The ability to operate elementary machines and
equipment; Willing to work extended hours when necessary.
DUTIES : Maintain a high level of hygiene in and around the workplace with the cleaning of
the SAPS premises assigned to, which may include either or both inner and outer
parameters; Performing tasks of a routine nature, such as dusting the environment;
Polish furniture and floors; Vacuum carpets and mopping of floors; remove refuse.
Perform maintenance tasks in and around the assigned premises; Clean
bathrooms and kitchens; Safekeeping and handling of a variety of aids in the
cleaning of the premise; Loading and unloading of goods. Washing and cleaning
of state vehicles, kitchenware and utensils.
ENQUIRIES : Colonel MC Makgeta and Lieutenant Colonel SP Nukeri Cell phone number: 082
334 0796 and 071 402 7977
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Physical Address: Midcity
Building, 540 Pretorius Street, Arcadia 0007.Postal Address: PO Box 12, Pretoria,
0001 Email Address: MakgetaM@saps.gov.za and NukeriSP@saps.gov.za
POST 22/265 : CLEANER (4X POSTS)
Component: Presidential Protection Service
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : HQ: Pretoria - Supply Chain Management (Post Number: PPS 11/2026) (3 Posts)
: Western Cape: Cape Town - Supply Chain Management (Post Number: PPS
12/2026) (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of ABET Level 4/ Grade 9/ Standard 7 certificate/ report
(NQF level 1 as recognized by SAQA), of which documentary proof can be
produced when required. Be a citizen of the Republic of South Africa of which
documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the interview. Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies: Understanding of how to handle cleaning detergents.
Occupational Health and Safety protocol. Basic literacy, numeracy and
communication skills. Be able to read and write. Ability to interact with other officials
in a professional manner. The ability to operate elementary machines and
equipment. Willing to work extended hours when necessary.
DUTIES : Core Functions: Maintain high level of hygiene in and around the workplace with
the cleaning of the SAPS premises, which may include either or both inner and
outer perimeters. Performing tasks of a routine nature such as polish furniture and
floors. Vacuum carpets and mopping of the floors. Remove refuse, clean
bathrooms and kitchens. Uphold the confidentiality of all classified documents as
per the MISS.
ENQUIRIES : HQ: Pretoria: Lieutenant Colonel Kganyago Tel No: 012 400 5310/ Warrant Officer
Sithebe on 012 400 5186/ Warrant Officer Mnyalatyho 012 400 5105/ AC Sekwape
012 400 5137/ AC Modiha /HRC Sibande 012 400 5147
158
Western Cape (Cape Town): Lieutenant Colonel Kamana / Captain Teyise / AC
Sofika/AC Sylvester on Tel No: 021 467 6485/6499
APPLICATIONS : HQ: Pretoria: Applications can be posted / hand delivered to the following address:
Private Bag x 272 Pretoria 0002 or 3 Troye and Park Street, Protection Service,
Maupa Naga Building Sunnyside 0002 or e-mailed to: Kganyagonn@saps.gov.za
/ SithebeS@saps.gov.za / MnyalatyhoLL@saps.gov.za /
SekwapeND@saps.gov.za / SibandeK@saps.gov.za / ModihaI@saps.gov.za
Western Cape (Cape Town): Applications must be posted / hand delivered to the
following address:121 Garmour House Plein Street Cape Town 8001 and e-mailed
to: KamanaEN@saps.gov.za / TeyiseS@saps.gov.za / cpt-ppu@saps.gov.za
POST 22/266 : CLEANER REF NO: DET 17/2026 (3 POSTS)
Division Detective Services
Financial Management and Administration Services (Auxiliary Services)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of ABET Level 4/ Grade 9/ Standard 7/ NQF Level 1
for which documentary proof can be produced when required. Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies: Understanding of how to handle cleaning detergents.
Occupational Health and Safety protocol. Basic literacy, numeracy and
communication skills. Be able to read and write. Ability to interact with other officials
in a professional manner. The ability to operate elementary machines and
equipment. Willing to work extended hours when necessary.
DUTIES : Maintaining of high-level hygiene in and around SAPS premises where routine
tasks are to be performed, which may include inner or outer parameters,
performing routine tasks such as dusting furniture and floors, removing refuse
bags, mopping of all tiled floors, cleaning bathrooms, kitchenware and utensils,
safekeeping and handling of variety of cleaning materials, loading and unloading
of goods.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel WB Chauke / Captain S Ntuli / PPO Kgwedi at (012) 393 1633/
4478 / 1277.
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Postal Address: Private Bag x
302 Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: Reception: SAPS Head Office: 237
Pretorius Street, Watchuis Building. Email: Detectiverecruitment@saps.gov.za
159
ANNEXURE L
THE DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Small Business Development is an equal opportunity & affirmative action employer. It is
the DSBD’s intention to promote representativity (race, gender, youth & disability). The candidature of
persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026 at 16h00. Applications received after the closing date will not be
considered.
NOTE : Applications can be submitted by email to the relevant email and by quoting the
relevant reference number provided on the subject line. Acceptable formats for
submission of documents are limited to MS Word, PDF. Applications must quote
the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully completed and signed Z83
form and a recent comprehensive CV. Submission of copies of qualifications,
Identity document, and any other relevant documents will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All non-SA citizens will be required to submit proof of permanent
residence in South Africa when shortlisted. Personnel suitability checks will be
done during the selection process. Applicants could be required to provide consent
for access to their social media accounts. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 1 month of the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. In the pursuit of diversity and redress, appointments will be made in
line with the DSBD EE Plan. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine
a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful
candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement within three months of
appointment, as well as complete a financial interest declaration form within one
month of appointment and annually thereafter. The Department reserves the right
not to fill or withdraw any advertised post. Note: a new application for employment
(Z83) form is applicable from 01 January 2021. The new form can be downloaded
online at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp.
OTHER POST
POST 22/267 : SECRETARIAT- EXECUTIVE STRUCTURES “REF NO: SES”
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) in Public Administration, Office
Administration /Management, Business Administration, or a related field, as
recognised by SAQA. 4 years of administrative experience in the public / private
sector environment, preferably working with Top Management. A postgraduate
qualification in a related field will be an added advantage. Computer literacy (MS
Office Packages and Microsoft Teams). Have proven competencies: Basic
understanding of governance and public-sector committee processes, Strong
administrative and organisational skills, Excellent verbal and written
communication skills, including minute-taking, Attention to detail and ability to
manage and file information accurately, Advanced data capturing and reporting
skills (e.g. Excel or similar tools), Ability to handle work confidentially and
professionally, Time management and ability to meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Provide Secretariat and Governance Support Services inclusive of but not limited
to providing secretariat support to departmental executive structures such as Min
EXCO, EXCO and Extended EXCO, ensuring governance processes of the
executive structures align with departmental policies, prescripts and approved
procedures etc. Provide meeting coordination and administration services. Provide
minutes, resolutions and action tracking services by taking accurate minutes during
meetings and drafting minutes for review and approval. Maintain orderly, accurate
and secure electronic and physical records of agendas, minutes, resolutions, and
supporting documentation in line with information management and records
management policies. Capture and maintain relevant data, including dates of
decisions, assigned actions and completion dates, assist in producing routine
reports and dashboards, such as average turnaround time for implementation of
decisions and frequency of meetings held versus planned. Communicate action
items and deadlines to responsible officials. Draft general correspondence such as
response letters, emails, status reports and submissions and serve as a
coordination point between the Executive Support unit, committee members, and
Departmental officials.
EENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office on Tel
No: (012) 394-5286/3097
NOTE : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates must submit applications to
recruitment7@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
160
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying, i.e., “REF NO:
SES”
161
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the
filling of these posts and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
Director-General, Department of Social Development, Private Bag X901, Pretoria,
0001. Physical Address: HSRC Building, 134 Pretorius Street In the event of hand
delivery of applications, applicants must sign an application register book as proof
of submission. Applicants may also email their applications to the following email
addresses: Branch Coordinator – e-recruit.BC12@dsd.gov.za;
FOR ATTENTION : Mr S Boshielo
CLOSING DATE : 17 July 2026
NOTE : Curriculum vitae with a detailed description of duties and the names of two referees
must accompany your signed application for employment (Z83). If applying for
more than one position, applicants must submit separate applications for each
position. Shortlisted candidates for a post will be required to submit certified copies
of qualifications and identity documents on the date of the interview. Applicants are
advised that from 1 January 2021, a new application for employment (Z83) form is
effective and must be completed in full, failure to use the new Z83 will result in
disqualification. The new form can be downloaded online at www.dpsa.gov.za-
vacancies. Applicants applying for SMS posts are required to successfully
complete the Certificate for entry into the SMS (submitted prior to appointment)
and full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Applicants
are expected to pay for the course and may enroll for it at a cost of R400.00. The
duration of the course is 120 hours. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine
the candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using
the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The successful
candidate will sign an annual performance agreement, complete a financial
discloser form and will also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Candidates nominated for posts on salary levels 2 - 12 may be subjected to a
competency assessment during the selection process. If the candidate is applying
for an OSD post, certificates of service must be submitted on the date of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated
by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit the
requested documents will result in your application not being considered.
Personnel suitability checks will be conducted on shortlisted candidates, and the
appointment is subject to positive outcomes of the checks. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. The selection of candidates will be done with
due regard to the relevant aspects of the selection process as set out in the Public
Service Amendment Regulations, 2023, Regulation 67. Applications received after
the closing date will not be taken into consideration. If you have not been contacted
within three months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. Candidates requiring additional information
regarding the advertised post may direct their enquiries to the person as indicated
above. Internal applicants must submit and register their employment applications
at the register book in the DSD reception area for the attention of Mr R Khobatha.
DSD reserves the right to cancel the filling/ not to fill a vacancy that was advertised
during any stage of the recruitment process.
OTHER POST
POST 22/268 : BRANCH COORDINATOR (REF: O1/D/2026)
Branch: Comprehensive Social Security
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply
SALARY : R932 292. per annum This inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognized by SAQA in Office Administration/
Public Administration/ Business Management or Financial Management. A
minimum of 3-5 years’ experience at a junior management level. Knowledge and
understanding of the relevant Public Service Act and Public Service Regulations.
Knowledge and understanding of relevant PFMA and Treasury Regulations.
162
Knowledge and understanding of administrative process. Knowledge and
understanding of records management. Knowledge and understanding of PAIA
and POPIA. Basic knowledge of Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA).
Knowledge and understanding of Batho Pele principles. Competencies needed:
Communication (verbal and written) skills. Policy analysis and development skills.
Planning and organising skills. People management skills. Project coordination
skills. Problem solving skills. Computer literacy. Facilitation and presentation skills.
Stakeholder and client liaison skills. Monitoring skills. Report writing skills.
Financial management skills. Attributes: Good interpersonal relations. Ability to
work under pressure. Innovative and creative. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Adaptability. Diplomacy. Independent thinker. Emotional
intelligence. Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity. Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: Manage the provision of strategic and executive
administrative support services to the branch. Coordinate the development and
analyses of branch APPs, Operational, Strategic and Risk management plans.
Manage and monitor the utilisation of the branch budget in line with the set
regulations and prescripts. Coordinate key branch projects, stakeholder and
intersectoral coordination. Manage and report on the human resources, and
performance in line with the set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Sibeko, Tel: Tel: (012) 312 7384/7789
163
ANNEXURE N
THE PRESIDENCY
The Presidency is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity (race, gender and disability). The candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will
promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : The Presidency, Private Bag x1000, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at Government
Avenue, Union Buildings, Pretoria or by email: applications@presidency.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms N Mshengu
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026 at 16h30 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and include only TWO (2)
documents (Z83 & CV). A fully completed and signed new Z83 Form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the Department of Public Service and
Administration (DPSA) website link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and
a detailed updated Curriculum Vitae. ONLY shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of Identity Document, Grade 12 Certificate and the
highest required qualifications as well as a driver’ s licence where necessary, to
Human Resources on or before the day of the interview. Failure to do so will result
in your application being disqualified. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied
by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications
evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation report (only when
shortlisted). Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date
as no late applications will be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to the
large number of applications we envisage to receive, correspondence will be
limited to successful candidates only, applications will however be acknowledged
by auto response. Should you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date
of the advertisement, please consider your application to be unsuccessful. Should,
during any stage of the recruitment process, a moratorium be placed on the filling
of posts or the Department be affected by any process such as, but not limited to,
restructuring or reorganisation of posts, the Department reserves the right to cancel
the recruitment process and re-advertise the post at any time in the future.
Important: The Department reserves the right not to fill a position. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to be available for interviews at a date and time as
determined by the Department. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks, which may include social media profiles of the
shortlisted candidates and pre-employment screening to determine the suitability
of a person for employment. Applicants must declare any pending criminal,
disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against them. Should this be
uncovered during / after the interview took place, the application will not be
considered and in the unlikely event that the person has been appointed such
appointment will be terminated. The successful candidate will be required to enter
into the SMS employment contract and a performance agreement. The
requirements for appointment at Senior Management Service (SMS) level will be
the successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government which can be
accessed using the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-entry-programme/ and a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency based
assessments).The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3)
SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive
capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. Failure
to submit the requested two (2) documents (the Z83 & CV) on application, will result
in your not being considered. In addition, the successful candidates will be required
to disclose their financial interests.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 22/269 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: CORPORATE MANAGEMENT (REF:
DDG:CM/PRES/2026)
Re-advertisement, applicants who applied previously are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 885 710 per annum (level 15) (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate postgraduate or equivalent qualification
on NQF level 8 as recognised by SAQA. 8 years’ experience at Senior managerial
level. Proven experience in managing a wide range of strategic business
operations. It is expected of the successful candidate to have advanced
communication skills, both oral and writing. Client orientation and customer focus,
164
honesty and integrity, service delivery innovation, willingness to work extended
hours, when necessary, problem solving and analysis, knowledge management,
financial management, strategic capability leadership, program and project
management, people management and empowerment, change management and
business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource
allocation, human resource modelling and leadership technique. In depth
understanding of the Public Service Regulatory Framework, good understanding
of Policy formulation process within government, monitoring and evaluation
methods, tools and techniques.
DUTIES : The key responsibilities are to provide efficient and effective leadership,
management and administrative (operational) support services to the Principals
and Branches of The Presidency. Assist The Presidency in the fulfilment of its
mandate and responsibilities by managing all responsibilities as delegated by the
Accounting Officer, Director-General and the Executive Authority. Determine the
strategic direction for all the relevant Chief Directorates and Directorates within the
Corporate Management Branch. Provide strategic advice and leadership through
alignment of the Branch goals to that of The Presidency’s strategic objectives to
the following Chief Directorates: Human Resources Management and
Development. Protocol, Ceremonial Services and Events Management; Corporate
Services; Internal Communication and Research Services, including the
Independent Commission; Financial Management and Legal and Executive
Services. Facilitate the building of strategic partnerships with stakeholders.
Implement a corporate management governance framework aligned with relevant
legislations and regulations to mitigate identified risks. Contribute to an effective
leadership development culture and capacity building for The Presidency.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Nonhlanhla Mshengu (012) 300 5895
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state ONLY the Reference
number: DDG:CM/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
POST 22/270 : HEAD OF POLICY AND RESEARCH SERVICES (REF: PRS/PRES/2026)
Re-advertisement, applicants who applied previously are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 885 710 per annum (level 15) (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate Hons Degree/Postgraduate or equivalent
qualification on NQF level 8 as recognized by SAQA. 8-10 years’ experience at
Senior managerial level. Process competencies: Communication, both oral and
writing. Client orientation and customer focus. Honesty and integrity. Service
delivery innovation. Willing to work extended hours, when necessary. Problem
solving and analysis. Knowledge management. Core competencies: Financial
management. Strategic capability leadership. Program and project management.
People management and empowerment. Change Management. Stakeholder
Management. Knowledge: In depth understanding of the Public Service Regulatory
Framework. Good understanding of government policies, programmes, strategies,
projects and plans. Public Service Regulatory Framework. Government systems.
Good knowledge and ability to use appropriate research methodologies.
Monitoring and evaluation methods, tools and techniques. Knowledge of
assessment and reviews techniques.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following duties: Provide policy
support and advise to the Political Principals in The Presidency. Facilitate policy
coordination in government through the Cabinet system and FOSAD. Liaise with
Senior Officials responsible for research and policy development in government as
well as Think Tanks and Research Institutions to identify research gaps and
outcomes that impact on public policy and use such to make recommendations on
interventions required. Provide technical support to the structures chaired by the
President and Deputy President. Conduct socio-economic impact assessments in
respect of policy outcomes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Nonhlanhla Mshengu (012) 300 5895
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state ONLY the Reference number:
PRS/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
POST 22/271 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: LEGAL AND EXECUTIVE SERVICES (REF:
LES/PRES/2026)
Re-advertisement, applicants who applied previously are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (level 14) (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an LLB Degree. A minimum of 5 years’ Senior
Management Services experience and 10 years’ experience in the legal
environment. Admission as an Attorney or Advocate. Process competencies:
Advanced communication, both oral and writing. Client orientation and customer
focus. Honesty and integrity. Service delivery innovation. Willing to work extended
hours, when necessary. Problem solving and analysis. Knowledge management.
Core competencies: Financial management. Strategic capability leadership.
165
Program and project management. People management and empowerment,
Change Management. Knowledge management: Public Service Regulatory
Framework, Policy formulation process within government, Business and
management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, human
resources modelling and leadership technique. Sound and broad knowledge of
legislation and case law. In-depth understanding of how the law works with a keen
interest to stay abreast of current affairs in the profession. Technical Sills: Research
Skills, Strong presentation and advocacy skills, the ability to present a point of view
convincingly. Excellent academic ability and an aptitude for applying legal theory
to practise. Ability to absorb, understand and analyse large amounts of information.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing efficient and effective
legal and executive services within The Presidency and legal advice to Cabinet
and its Committees. Support The Presidency in being compliant with its
constitutional and legislative obligations. Ensure provision of legal, executive and
administrative support to the President, Deputy President and Secretary of the
Cabinet, in the performance of their executive and mandated functions. Provide
strategic advice to the Director-General and President on legislative changes and
providing research on legal implications. Ensure provision of legal inputs that
relates to matters processed by the Director-General and Secretary of the Cabinet,
as well as Forum of South African Director-General (FOSAD). Provide direction
and oversight on the legal approach to cross cutting legal issues pertaining to
government. Draft and review a wide variety of agreements pertaining to The
Presidency and government wide. Manage litigation and representing The
Presidency in labour, commercial and other disputes. Ensure provision of general
advice to The Presidency. Oversee and manage the work of the Legal and
Executive Services Unit. Identify, mitigate and manage commercial regulatory and
other risks. Manage Strategic planning, Budgeting and MTEF processes of the LES
Chief Directorate. Manage communications and Stakeholder Relations of the Unit.
Ensure the Unit is properly resourced to execute on its mandate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Katlego Futhane (012) 300 5995
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state ONLY the Reference number:
LES/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/272 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CHANCERY OF ORDERS (REF: DD:CO/PRES/2026)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate Bachelor’s degree or equivalent
qualification on NQF level 6. Minimum of 3 to 5 years’ relevant experience.
competencies: Be professional. highly motivated. initiative and critical thinker who
will be able to gather and analyse information skilfully. Have excellent interpersonal
skills. Have excellent organizational and planning skills and ability to work on
multiple projects simultaneously. Have sense of urgency and ability to identify,
analyse and resolve problems in a timely manner. Be able to work independently
and as part of a team and also work well under pressure. Excellent telephone
etiquette. Have project management skills. Have excellent oral and written
communication skills. Good office management skills. Be able to handle
confidential matters and have integrity and be trustworthy. Knowledge: Good
understanding of protocol and security measures. Good computer knowledge.
Good understanding of Public Service Regulatory Framework.
DUTIES : Administration of National Orders through Management of nominations for the
National Orders including the register. Editing and reworking the bios of the
nominees. Ensuring that the manual and electronic registers of the recipients are
updated. Compilation of memos for approval acceptance and wearing of foreign
awards. Administration of the unit through Monthly and quarterly compilation of
reports of the Directorate. Administering and monitoring of the budget. Compilation
of inputs for the Annual Report. Administering the State Official and Provincial
Official Funeral manual through facilitation of documentation for the declaration of
declared funerals. Oversee arrangements and documentation for official memorial
services and funerals. Coordinating meetings of the Funeral Planning Committee.
Providing secretariat support to the Presidential Advisory Council on National
Orders. Coordinating administration relating to the Advisory Council. When
necessary, assisting the Director in drafting and amending the Charter for the
Advisory Council.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Neo Mokganya (012) 308 1419
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state ONLY the Reference number:
DD:CO/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
166
ANNEXURE O
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: EASTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE & TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
The Department of Cooperative Governance & Traditional Affairs is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. Military Veterans, persons from previously disadvantaged (designated) groups including people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Employment Equity targets of the Department will be considered in
the selection process.
APPLICANTS : Applications must be submitted as follows: via the provincial e-recruitment system
accessible at: https://ecprov.gov.za and/or at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za.
The Provincial e-Recruitment System is available 24/7 and closes at 23: 59 on the
Closing Date. To report any e-Recruitment System challenges send an email with
your (i) ID Number, (ii) profile email address, (iii) details of your issue to:
recruitment@eccogta.gov.za. Do not send any applications to this email address;
should you do so, your applications/ CV will be regarded as lost and will not be
considered. Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-
Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Friday). Hand-delivered/ E-Mailed/ Faxed/ Posted
applications will not be accepted.
FOR THE ATTENTION : Ms N. Gemby at (072 657 6518)
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026. No late applications will be accepted
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed New Z83 form (effective from
01 January 2021 e-Recruitment System automatically generates Z83 immediately
you press apply and generate Z83. Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents upon application but must submit a
fully completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in the e-
recruitment system is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted
applications via the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned
Z83 instead will be requested to sign on/or before the interview day. View the list
of the positions you applied for on “My Job Applications” and do note that the
system Z83 does not reflect work experience and qualifications, however, every
detail of your information does reflect to the Recruitment team. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, and other
relevant documents (like a copy of Permanent Resident Permit for Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Holders to HR on or before the interview date.
Failure to submit all the required documents will disqualify the application.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been
contacted within six (6) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship
verification, financial/asset record check, qualification/ study verification and
previous employment verification). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3)
SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive
capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity.
Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation period of twelve 12/24
months. It is the objective to address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action
Measures in line with the Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable
representation across race and gender. The EE targets of the recruiting
Department will be adhered to although the applications are welcome from all racial
groups. The Recruiting Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw
the advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with Disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications). Misrepresentation in the application documents
will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. SMS pre-entry certificate (Nyukela) must
be submitted prior appointment. Full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. Enquiries:
Mr S. Meligana (071 689 6162) e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries:
recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
MANEMENT ECHELON
POST 22/273 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: LOCAL GOVERNANCE (REF NO: COGTA:
01/06/2026)
SALARY : R1 885 710 – R2 124 237. per annum (Level 15)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a postgraduate NQF Level 8 in Local Governance,
Public Administration, Public Management, Administration as recognized by
167
SAQA. Minimum of 8 years of experience at a Senior Managerial level. Pre-entry
Certificate for the SMS endorsed by NSG. Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook
and PowerPoint). A valid Code 8 driver’s license. Previous experience in the local
government environment will be an added advantage. Competencies:
Understanding of Public Sector legislation and other relevant Prescripts. Strategic
Capability & Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Budgeting and
Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management, Service
Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving and analysis, People Management and
Empowerment.
DUTIES : Provide & drive strategic direction for the branch and ensure the formulation and
implementation of strategic policies which will enable the branch administration to
successfully fulfil its role in supporting the Municipalities: Ensure promotion of good
governance and sound municipal administration. Ensure monitoring and facilitation
of effective municipal administration and capacity building. Ensure coordination of
the evaluation and assessment of local government capacity. Ensure monitoring
and facilitation of municipal finances, supply chain management and valuation
services. Ensure provision of information technology, system support and
integration services to Municipalities. Ensure coordination and provision of
capacity building initiatives. Enhance governance through public participation,
Integrated Development Planning, Rapid Response and Stakeholder
Management: Enhance governance through public participation and community
development Ensure development of policy framework to promote, facilitate and
coordinate rapid response and Stakeholder Management and co-ordination of
intergovernmental and district operations services within municipal areas. Ensure
development of policy framework to promote, facilitate, strengthen and monitor
municipal IDP’s. Oversee Municipal Operations Management, Employee Relations
and Wellness and Human Resource Planning and Development: Oversee and
monitor implementation of operations management and Organisational
Development in Municipalities. Oversee and monitor implementation of Employee
Relations and Wellness in Municipalities Oversee and monitor implementation of
Human Resource Planning and Development in Municipalities. Ensure
coordination of district operation services: Ensure promotion of intergovernmental
relations and coordination of district offices and integration. Manage the allocated
resources of the Branch.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gemby at (072 657 6518)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/274 : CHIEF TOWN AND REGIONAL PLANNER GRADE A: SPECIAL PLANNING
(REF COGTA 02/06/2026)
SALARY : R1 143 468. – R1 300 944 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus an undergraduate qualification in Town and
Regional Planning/Urban and Regional Planning/Spatial planning (NQF leve7) as
recognised by SAQA. 6 years’ post-qualification experience in Town and Regional
Planning. Compulsory registration with SACPLAN as a professional Town and
Regional Planner on appointment. Microsoft Word, Excel & PowerPoint
(MSOffice). Driver’s License. Three year’s middle management experience in
Spatial Planning & Land Use Management. Competencies: Knowledge of
programme and project management; Knowledge of relevant legislation and
policies; Knowledge of research and development. Knowledge of creating a high-
performance culture and technical consulting; Professional judgement and
accountability; Strategic management and direction skills; Problem-solving and
analysis, decision-making, team leadership and analytical skills; Creativity, self-
management, customer focus and responsiveness skills; Delegation and
development of other skills, Planning, organizing and execution skills; Ability to
manage conflict; Language proficiency skills; Knowledge management,
negotiation, and change management skills; Knowledge of urban and rural
economic development planning.
DUTIES : Monitor and support municipalities to ensure effective Spatial planning in line with
Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act 16 of 2013 (SPLUMA) and other
relevant land related legislations. Strategic spatial planning at provincial level
(inclusive of co-ordination of planning activities between the 3 spheres of
government and other stakeholders). Manage allocated resources to ensure that
they align and realize the Directorates objectives and Departmental goals. Manage
subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental
objectives. Allocate, monitor, control expenditure according to budget to ensure
efficient cash flow management in line with financial management prescripts,
PFMA. Support the Directorate to identify, analyse and resolve risks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Gemby at 072 657 6518)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
168
POST 22/275 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A: MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES REF
NO: COGTA: (03/06/2026)
SALARY : R1 317 108 – R1 504 797 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus undergraduate qualification in BSC or B-
techdegree (NQF Level 7) in the Engineering field. Six (6) years’ experience as a
Project Manager in the local government environment. Registered with a
professional body i.e. ECSA, etc. etc. Microsoft Word, Excel & PowerPoint
(MSOffice). EB-code drivers’ licence is compulsory. Advance Programme in Project
Management will be an added advantage Competencies: Ability to function both
independently and as part of the team. Ability to work under pressure and with
minimum supervision. Ability to produce work within the set timeframe, meeting the
deadlines. Ability to generate a power-point presentation, present before the
audience in an articulative and eloquent manner. Ability to supervise, mentor and
train technical subordinates both in the department and in municipalities.
DUTIES : Coordinating the PMST3 (Provincial Infrastructure Support technical task team)
district based municipal infrastructure support programmes. Monitoring and
evaluating the performance of municipalities in implementing the infrastructure
management programmes (Planning, Capex and Opex programme). Coordinate
and report quarterly Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Portfolio of Evidence (PoE),
Operational Plan (OP) Key Performance Indicators. Championing the MIS
directorate sector: Provincial Infrastructure Steering Committee (PISC). Assessing
the quarterly performance of the Subordinates, identifying capacity gaps, skills
deficiencies and recommending training needs in line with PMDS guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gemby at (072 657 6518)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
POST 22/276 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MONITORING & EVALUATION SERVICES (REF. NO
COGTA:04/06/2025)
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195.per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, plus undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6/7) in
Monitoring & Evaluation/Internal Audit/ Public Administration. Three (03) to Five
(05) years at an Assistant director /Junior Level relevant experience in a Monitoring
and Evaluation/Auditing/Strategic Planning environment. Code 08 (EB) valid
Driver’s Licence. In-depth knowledge of strategic management, monitoring and
evaluation, business planning processes, government planning frameworks, and
applicable legislation and standards (including the Public Finance Management
Act, Public Service Act and Regulations, NEPF of 2019, Treasury Guidelines,
Framework and Guideline for Strategic Plans and Annual Performance Plans and
relevant norms in the sector). Computer literacy. Thorough Knowledge of Microsoft
Office. Registered member of the South Monitoring and Evaluation Association
(SAMEA). competencies: Knowledge and experience of Monitoring and Evaluation
Policy and Frameworks. Ability to design, develop and implement Monitoring and
Evaluation systems, policies, processes and procedures. Experience in the
formulation and implementation of baseline studies; monitoring and performance
management and conducting evaluations. Understanding of Knowledge
Management principles and learning within organisations. Experience in sector
performance information, strategy management and entity oversight. Negotiation
skills and report writing required.
DUTIES : Coordinate the effective implementation of Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
frameworks, guidelines, and policies. Coordinate, develop, and maintain M&E
plans for departmental programmes and projects to ensure alignment with the
Department’s objectives and priorities. Lead and participate in the formulation and
execution of project and programme reviews, evaluations, and assessments to
measure progress and outcomes. Prepare and present periodic M&E reports to
programme managers. Develop and maintain performance monitoring tools,
learning frameworks, and reporting instruments in compliance with departmental
strategic and annual performance plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gemby at (072 657 6518)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
POST 22/277 : TOWN & REGIONAL PLANNER: SPATIAL PLANNING (OSD) (REF NO:
COGTA: (05/06/2025)
SALARY : R791 604 – R849 525. per annum
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo D.S.C
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in
Urban/Town and Regional Planning or relevant qualification. Compulsory
registration with South African Council of Planners (SACPLAN) as a professional
Town and Regional Planner on appointment. Three (3) years post qualification
169
Town and Regional Planning experience required Computer literacy: Microsoft
word, Excell and Power Point. Valid driver’s license is required. Competencies:
Verbal and written communication skills. Computer skills, Negotiation skills,
Conflict resolution. Ability to interpret and advise on SPLUMA issues or other
developmental issues. Willing to work under pressure. Willing to travel.
DUTIES : Monitor and support municipalities to ensure effective Spatial planning in line with
Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act 16 of 2013 (SPLUMA) and other
relevant land related legislations. Manage and motivate allocated resources to
ensure that they align and realise the Directorates objectives and Departmental
goals. Assist in capacitating municipalities to administer land use management in
line with SPLUMA. Assist in managing and controlling budget/ cash flow of the
respective District in line with financial management prescripts, PFMA. Support the
Directorate to identify, analyse and resolve risks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gemby at (072 657 6518)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
POST 22/278 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING (REF
COGTA 06/06/2026)
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, plus undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) in Public
Management/ Management/Public Administration/Monitor and Evaluation. Three
to Five (3-5) years’ experience at supervisory level 7/8 in strategic
management/planning. Knowledge of Public Service Act, (Batho Pele Principles),
PFMA, and Framework and Guideline for Strategic Pans and Annual Performance
Plans. Application of planning methodology. Basic project management. Strategic
formulation and implementation. Public sector governance framework.
Communication (verbal and written). Problem solving and analysis. Planning and
organising. Knowledge management. Diversity management. Budgeting and
financial management. Basic research skills. Willingness to drive long Hours.
Computer literacy. Thorough Knowledge of Microsoft Office. Valid Code 08 (EB)
driving license. Incumbent must have worked in strategic planning or monitoring
and evaluation. Competencies: Development and operational effectiveness, good
people skill & teamwork, results orientated, self-starter, presentation and
communication skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate and prepare inputs/presentations and feedback regarding the strategic,
annual performance plan and operational plan for COGTA. Assist with the research
or review or development of relevant departmental policies pertaining to COGTA
procedures to the relevant role players. Facilitate, coordinate, develop, present and
maintain strategic and annual planning processes. Coordinate the development,
maintain and submission of strategic, annual performance plan and operational
plans. Compile reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Gemby at 072 657 6518)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
POST 22/279 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION SERVICES (REF
COGTA 07/06/2026) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate, An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6/7) in
Monitoring & Evaluation/Internal Audit/Public Administration. Three (03) toFive (05)
years relevant experience in a Monitoring and Evaluation/Auditing/Strategic
Planning environment at a junior managerial level (Level 7 & 8 or equivalent).
Knowledge of strategic management, monitoring & evaluation, business planning
processes, government planning frameworks, & applicable legislation and
standards (including the Public Finance Management Act, NEPF of 2019; Public
Service Act & Regulations, Treasury Guidelines, Framework and Guideline for
Strategic Plans and Annual Performance Plans and relevant norms in the sector).
Computer literacy. Thorough Knowledge of Microsoft Office. Code 08 (EB) valid
Driver’s Licence. Registered member of the South Monitoring and Evaluation
Association SAMEA). The candidate must have worked within a strategic planning
or M&E environment. Competencies: Knowledge and experience of Monitoring and
Evaluation Policy and Frameworks. Ability to design, develop and implement
Monitoring and Evaluation systems, policies, processes and procedures.
Experience in the formulation and implementation of baseline studies; monitoring
and performance management and conducting evaluations. Experience in sector
performance information, strategy management and entity oversight. Negotiation
skills and report writing required. Good people skills and teamwork, results
orientated, self-starter, presentation and communication skills.
DUTIES : Assist in the effective implementation of Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
frameworks, guidelines, and policies. Assist in coordinating, developing, and
maintaining M&E plans for departmental programmes and projects to ensure
170
alignment with the Department’s objectives and priorities. Participate in the
formulation and execution of project and programme reviews, evaluations, and
assessments to measure progress and outcomes. Assist in the preparation and
presentation of periodic M&E reports to programme managers. Assist in
developing and maintain performance monitoring tools, learning frameworks, and
reporting instruments in compliance with departmental strategic and annual
performance plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Gemby at 072 657 6518)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
POST 22/280 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATION MANAGEMENT (REF COGTA
08/06/2026)
SALARY : R487 197.00 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, plus undergraduate qualification (NQ level 6) in
Communication/ Journalism/ Public Relations. Three to Five (3-5) years’
experience at supervisory level (7/8) as a Principal Communication Officer or
equivalent ranks within Corporate Communication environment. Experience in
Local Government Communication System, photography, media liaison,
newsgathering, writing and social media management. Proficient knowledge of
Microsoft packages, Ms Word, PowerPoint, Publisher, Excel and Outlook. Code
EB driver’s license. Must be prepared to work after hours on weekends and public
holidays. Video production and editing and graphic designing.
DUTIES : Promote the effective implementation of Local Government Communication
System in Municipalities and Traditional Leadership Institutions. Gather, write and
edit news articles for internal, external newsletter and any other departmental
publications. Update Social and Electronic Media platforms. Render translation
services as and when required. Advise management on new media and
communication trends. Render photographic and online services during
departmental and government events. Responsible for efficient management of
staff including training, maintenance of discipline, promotion of sound labour
relations and proper use of state property.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Gemby at 072 657 6518)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
POST 22/281 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUSINESS PROCESSES MANAGEMENT (REF
COGTA 09/06/2026)
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, plus undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) in
Industrial Engineering, Management Services, Work-study/Industrial
Psychology/Production Management/Operations Management & Public
Management. Three (3) to Five (5) years’ experience at supervisory level in an
Organisational Development, Business Process Management and Change
Management and Service Delivery Initiatives environment. A valid driver’s license
is required. In-depth knowledge of Business Process Management frameworks,
2015 Directive on changes to Organisational Structure and applicable legislation
and standards (including the Public Finance Management Act, Public Service Act
and Regulations, Treasury guidelines, Change Management Framework and
Organisational Design Toolkit and Skills: Able to use Visio (Mapping of Business
Processes) Analytical and problem-solving skills, Interpersonal Skills.
Communication skills (including advanced report writing and presentation skills)
and interpersonal skills and Research skills. Computer literacy (Able to use Visio
in mapping business processes). Valid Code 08 (EB) driving license. Incumbent
must have worked in Organisational Development field. competencies: Knowledge
of the Business Process Management processes, Job Evaluation Principles,
Organisational Design Tool Kit, Principles of organization Development, Project
management principles, Strategic management principles, Performance
management principles, Diversity management principles. Skills- Research Report
writing, Interpersonal relations, Analysing and Presentation. Values/Attributes-
Interpersonal relations, Integrity, Responsive, Courteous teamwork and
Responsible.
DUTIES : Provide business efficiency enhancement services. Facilitate and conduct
business process improvement initiatives. Conduct organisational functionality
assessments of department internal systems and processes. Conduct an
assessment department’s effectiveness and efficiency in supporting the attainment
of service delivery objectives. Facilitate the implementation of productivity
measurement framework.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Gemby at 072 657 6518)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
171
POST 22/282 : ADMIN CLERKS TRADITIONAL LEADERSHIP INSTUTIONAL SUPPORT
COORDINATION (12 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708. per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Maluti Region X1: Matandela Traditional Council (REF No: COGTA 10A/06/2026)
Dalindyebo Region X2: Xesibe Traditional Council (REF. NO: COGTA10/06/2026)
Hala Traditional Council (REF. NO: COGTA: 10C/06/2026)
Western Thembuland Region X2: Ncuncuzo Traditional Council (REF.NO COGTA
10D/06/2026)
Qamata Basin Traditional Council (REF. COGTA NO: 10E/06/2026)
Rharhabe Region X 2: Amajingqi Traditional Council (REF. NO
COGTA:10F/06/2026)
Amarheledwane Traditional Council (Ref. COGTA: 10G/06/2026)
Qaukeni Region X2: Amatshangase Traditional Council (REF.COGTA
NO10H/06/2026)
Amandengane Traditional Council (REF. COGTA: 10i/06/2026)
Nyandeni Region X1: Malungela Traditional Council (REF.NO: COGTA
10J/06/2026)
Sterkspruit Region X1: Hlubi Traditional Council (REF. NO: COGTA 10K/06/2026)
Emboland Region X1 Amampondomise Asentshonalanga Traditional Council
(REF. NO: COGTA:10L/06/2026)
REQUIREMENTS : National Higher Certificate/Diploma (NQF Level 5) with no experience or Senior
Certificate (NQF level 4). 1 (one) to two (2) years’ experience. Computer literacy
Microsoft Office (i.e. Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook etc. Valid Code 8 Driver’s
License. Preference will be given to applicants residing in the area of jurisdiction
of the Traditional Councils. Competencies: Communication skills. Understanding
of Traditional Leadership Institution. Client orientation and customer focus. Report
writing skills, facilitation, and co-ordination.
DUTIES : Coordinate meetings between Traditional Council and other stakeholders.
Coordinate Traditional Council meetings. Provide secretarial support in meetings
of Traditional Councils. Promote cooperative governance between Traditional
Council, Municipalities, and other stakeholders. Facilitate Involvement of
Traditional Councils in identification of community needs and involvement of
traditional community in development or amendment of integrated development
plan of the municipality under the jurisdiction of the Traditional Council. Facilitate
participation of Traditional Council in development of policies and by-laws at local
level. Facilitate and coordinate meetings of the Traditional Council with Traditional
Community. Promote compliance by Traditional Leaders and Traditional Council
members with all available pieces of legislation and policies. Manage finances
including cash management of Traditional Council the funds, financial statements,
monthly returns, vouchers for payment, compilation of estimates of revenue and
expenditure. Manage records/documents of Traditional Councils.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gemby at (072 657 6518)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
POST 22/283 : DRIVER: SARAH BAARTMAN & NELSON MANDELA BAY METRO (REF
COGTA 11/06/2026)
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877. per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman DCS
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/Standard 8. Two (2) years’ experience as a driver. Valid code 14 drivers’
license with PDP. Competencies: Knowledge of Road Traffic Management Act.
Proven clients focus and Orientation. Sound Interpersonal and communication
skills. Extensive travelling is required and willingness to work extended hours in
province’s municipal areas to deliver water.
DUTIES : Provide driving/messenger services for small vehicles and trucks. Maintain
accurate and up to date schedule trip sheets, i.e. log official trips, daily mileage,
fuel consumption. Perform daily trip and post trip vehicle inspection to ensure that
the vehicle is always in the best condition. Collect and distribute documents.
Ensure proper and secure control over movement of documents. Report incidents
and accidents timeously and compile vehicle condition reports and other records
required by Management. Report vehicle faults to call centre and ensure vehicle
maintenance is carried out.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Gemby at 072 657 6518)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
POST 22/284 : GENERAL WORKER: TRADITIONAL LEADERSHIP INSTUTIONAL SUPPORT:
AMAMPONDOMISE KINGSHIP (REF. NO COGTA 12/06/2026)
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656.per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Qumbu
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 (Grade 9) / NQF level 1-3. Computer literacy Microsoft office (i.e.
Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook etc. Code 8 valid driver’s license.
172
Competencies: Communication skills. Understanding of Traditional Leadership
Institution. Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Sweeping, mopping, taking out trash and cleaning communal areas like kitchens
and rest rooms. Setting up coffee/tea /drink stations and providing refreshments
during meetings and workshops. Assist requesting office supplies and cleaning
materials. Arrange boardroom layout, moving furniture and cleaning venues before
and after gatherings/meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gemby at (072 e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries:
recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
POST 22/285 : MACHINE OPERATOR: KNOWLEDGE AND RECORDS MANAGEMENT
SERVICES (REF COGTA 13/06/2026)
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : ABET Level 4 (NQF1-3). Good Interpersonal Skills. Excellent Communication
Skills (Verbal and written). Ability to operate a photocopy machine. Ability to work
under pressure. Sound interpersonal relations and good customer care. Ability to
maintain confidentiality. Competencies: Understanding of the work in registry.
Basic Numeracy and literacy. Ability to operate reprographic machinery.
Knowledge of two Official Languages skills (isiXhosa and English). Communication
skills. Writing skills. Organising skills Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Operate the photocopier machines (adhere to the stipulations and safe measures
as presented by the Occupational, Health and Safety Act). Make photocopies for
staff. Report any malfunctioning of photocopier machines to supervisor. Keep
records of photocopier machine activities. Scanning of documents. Binding and
laminating of documents. Deliver Photostats etc. to designated destinations.
Provide counter service. Receive the request form & documents. Record
documents received & delivered in a register. Contact client or deliver when
documents are ready. Attend to counter queries. Maintenance on the photocopier
machine. Perform minor maintenance the photocopier machine. Identify record
and arrange for the repair of defect to the machine. Arrange for the servicing of &
repair to the machine. Arrange for installation, moving of reprographic machinery.
Undertake the general maintenance & cleaning of the machine. Ensure that
photocopying material& equipment are stored securely. Arrange for the re-ordering
of copy papers, staples and toners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Gemby at 072 657 6518)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY
It is the intention of the Department to promote representative through the filling these positions. The
candidature from the designated groups especially women and people with disabilities will be given a
preference and no hand delivery or posted applications will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted as follows: via the provincial e-recruitment system
accessible at: https://ecprov.gov.za and/or at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za.
The Provincial e-Recruitment System is available 24/7 and closes at 23: 59 on the
Closing Date. To report any e-Recruitment System challenges send an email with
your (i) ID Number, (ii) profile email address, (iii) details of your issue to:
erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za. Do not send any applications to this email address;
should you do so, your applications/ CV will be regarded as lost and will not be
considered. Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-
Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Friday). Hand-delivered/ E-Mailed/ Faxed/ Posted
applications will not be accepted.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms B. Mndindwa or Ms L. Mazwi
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026. No late applications will be accepted
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed New Z83 form (effective from
01 January 2021), e-Recruitment System automatically generates Z83
immediately you press apply and generate Z83. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents upon application but
must submit a fully completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in
the e-recruitment system is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted
applications via the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned
Z83 instead will be requested to sign on/or before the interview day. View the list
of the positions you applied for on “My Job Applications” and do note that the
system Z83 does not reflect work experience and qualifications, however, every
detail of your information does reflect to the Recruitment team. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, and other
relevant documents (like a copy of Permanent Resident Permit for Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Holders to HR on or before the interview date.
Failure to submit all the required documents will disqualify the application.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been
contacted within six (6) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be
173
subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship
verification, financial/asset record check, qualification/ study verification and
previous employment verification). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3)
SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive
capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity.
Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation period of twelve 12/24
months. It is the objective to address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action
Measures in line with the Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable
representation across race and gender. The EE targets of the recruiting
Department will be adhered to although the applications are welcome from all racial
groups. The Recruiting Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw
the advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with Disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications). Misrepresentation in the application documents
will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. SMS pre-entry certificate (Nyukela) must
be submitted prior appointment. Full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/286 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: HOD’S OFFICE REF: DOCS: 01/06/2026
SALARY : R388 106 - per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate and appropriate national Diploma (NQF Level 6) as
recognised by SAQA in Public Admin or Management/ Office Management/
Secretarial Diploma qualification. A minimum of 1-2 years of relevant experience in
rendering administrative support to senior management. A valid south African
driver’s licence. Competence: Excellent proficiency in Microsoft Office suite and
computer literacy at advanced level. Good office management skills and
knowledge of administrative procedures. Sound organizational skills. Good people
skills. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to analyse
documents. Communication: verbal and written, Interpersonal and Conflict
resolution.
DUTIES : Act as the first point of contact for HOD and maintain the effective working of the
office. Provide administrative secretarial/receptionist support service to HOD.
Manage diaries by scheduling, prioritizing and managing appointments, travel
arrangements and preparations for meetings. Provide the secretariat services in
the HOD’s Office. Screening phone calls, inquiries and requests, and handling
them when appropriate. Manage correspondence, track incoming and outgoing
correspondence and ensure replies are produced within the required timeframe.
Scrutinise routine submissions / reports and make notes and/or recommendations
for the HOD; respond to enquiries received from internal and external stakeholders;
draft documents as required. Establish and maintain a document management and
tracking system. Ensure the safekeeping of all documentation in the office of HOD.
Record minutes/decisions and communicate to relevant role-players, following up
on progress made. Monitor the HOD’s Office Budget, keeping record of
expenditure commitments, monitoring expenditure, and alerting the manager of
possible over- and underspending; checking and correlating BAS reports to ensure
that expenditure is allocated correctly. Provide support to other members of the
Branch as necessary. Maintain systems and procedures to support the efficient
running of the office. Maintain the highest level of confidentiality and adherence to
policies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at (079 284 6709)
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
POST 22/287 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: CORPORATE SERVICES REF: DOCS: 02/06/2026
SALARY : R388 106 - per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate and appropriate national Diploma (NQF Level 6) as
recognised by SAQA in Public Admin or Management/ Office Management/
Secretarial Diploma qualification. A minimum of 1-2 years of relevant experience in
rendering administrative support to senior management. A valid south African
driver’s licence. Competence: Excellent proficiency in Microsoft Office suite and
computer literacy at advanced level. Good office management skills and
knowledge of administrative procedures. Sound organizational skills. Good people
skills. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to analyse
174
documents. Communication: verbal and written, Interpersonal and Conflict
resolution.
DUTIES : Act as the first point of contact for Chief Director and maintain the effective working
of the office. Provide administrative secretarial/receptionist support service to Chief
Director. Manage diaries by scheduling, prioritizing and managing appointments,
travel arrangements and preparations for meetings. Provide the secretariat
services in the Chief Directors’ Office. Screening phone calls, inquiries and
requests, and handling them when appropriate. Manage correspondence, track
incoming and outgoing correspondence and ensure replies are produced within the
required timeframe. Scrutinise routine submissions / reports and make notes
and/or recommendations for the Chief Director; respond to enquiries received from
internal and external stakeholders; draft documents as required. Establish and
maintain a document management and tracking system. Ensure the safekeeping
of all documentation in the office of the Chief Director. Record minutes/decisions
and communicate to relevant role-players, following up on progress made. Monitor
the Chief Director’s Office Budget, keeping record of expenditure commitments,
monitoring expenditure, and alerting the manager of possible over- and
underspending; checking and correlating BAS reports to ensure that expenditure
is allocated correctly. Provide support to other members of the Branch as
necessary. Maintain systems and procedures to support the efficient running of the
office. Maintain the highest level of confidentiality and adherence to policies and
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at (079 284 6709)
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
POST 22/288 : ADMNISTRATION CLERK – SUPERVISOR REF: DOCS: 03/06/2026
SALARY : R388 106 - per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro
: Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate and appropriate national diploma (NQF Level 6) as
recognised by SAQA in Public Admin or Management/ Office Management/
Secretarial Diploma qualification. A minimum of 1-2 years of relevant experience
and a valid south African driver’s licence. Competence: Knowledge of Microsoft
Office suite literacy at intermediate level. Computer Skills, Secretarial skills,
administrative skills, Communication: verbal and written, Interpersonal and Conflict
resolution.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the district. Keep records of all relevant
documents and fille them accordingly. Facilitate payment of safety patrollers.
Exercise control over the expenditure and maintenance of the district expenditure.
Support Services on Asset and Fleet Management Services in the district. Arrange
travelling and accommodation. Provide support and supervise on Supply Chain
Management related matters within the district. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services. Provide Personnel
Administration Clerical Support Services within the District. Manage staff
performance and other human related issues. Assist with the implementation of
policies and procedures to minimize risks of losses and promotion of effective
management of district assets. Update registers and statistics. Handle routine
enquiries. Maintain and update district asset register. Perform stock counting,
verification and evaluation of the district assets. Perform asset reconciliation with
accounting systems. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type letters
and/or other correspondence when required.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at (079 284 6709) For e-
Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
POST 22/289 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK REF: DOCS: 04/06/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with 0 working experience and a national diploma (NQF
Level 6) in Supply Chain Management /Accounting/Finance/Auditing/
Management/ Public Administration or Management. Knowledge of BAS and
LOGiS will serve as an added advantage. Competence: supply chain Management
processes, Public Finance management Act, Public Service Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, PPPFA and other relevant prescripts.
DUTIES : Procurement source documents are verified and captured, once approved, the
order is timeously placed with the supplier, in accordance with departmental
policies and procedures and compliant with applicable legislative requirements.
Procurement is done in accordance with departmental policies and procedures and
compliant with applicable legislative requirements. Create and print orders on
LOGIS system. Sourcing of quotation to ensure that they comply with the minimum
requirements. Assist end users with the compilation of compliant specifications on
the supply chain system.
175
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at (079 284 6709)
For e-Recruitment Enquiries email to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
POST 22/290 : FINANCE CLERK REF: DOCS: 05/06/2026
SALARY : R237 453 - per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : BHISHO
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with 0 working experience in and a national diploma
(NQF Level 6) in Finance/Financial Accounting / Cost and Management Accounting
will be added advantage. Skills: teamwork, communication (verbal and writing)
interpersonal relations, flexibility, computer skills, accuracy, aptitude of figures,
basic numeracy skills. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate
financial statistics. Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (BAS, LOGIS,
PERSAL etc.). Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial
legislations, procedures and Treasury Regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR,
PPPFA, Financial Manual)
DUTIES : Receive order batch for processing payments. Check and verify invoices for
correctness. Prepare and maintain Payment Monitoring Tool. Prepare creditor’s
reconciliation. Compile payment vouchers. Capture payments on both BAS and
LOGIS systems. Distribution of payment stubs to the beneficiaries. Verification of
payment vouchers against payment stubs. Affix “PAID” stamp on all paid payment
vouchers. Filing and safekeeping of payment vouchers. Retrieve payment
vouchers requested by both internal and external auditors. Attend to service
provider’s queries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at (079 284 6709)
For e-Recruitment Enquiries email to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
POST 22/291 : MESSENGER / DRIVER REF: DOCS: 06/06/2026
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 4)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or Matric Certificate. A minimum of 0 - 1 year driver/messenger working
experience and a Valid SA Driver’s license (Code 10/C1). Professional Driver’s
Permit (PDP). National Traffic Regulations. Knowledge of messenger/driver
processes and procedures. Experience in handling confidential and classified
documents. Knowledge of local routes and Traffic Laws. Ability to assess condition
/ road worthiness of motor vehicles to ensure safety of self and passengers.
Communication (verbal & written skills). Interpersonal, customer orientated and
time management. Driving skills.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium motor vehicles to transport passengers and deliver other
items (e.g. Mail and Documents). Transport passenger/s and other items to the
correct destination. Shuttling employees to various destinations for official
purposes. Perform pre and post inspection to the vehicle. Deliver, collect and
distribute official documents, mail and parcels to the correct destination. Adhere to
safety protocols and driving regulations. Check vehicle each time before driving
e.g. oil, water etc). Refer vehicle when due for service, report mechanical defects
to the supervisor and always keep the vehicle clean. Obtain authorisation for
vehicle use, complete the required documentation and always keep all receipts
and necessary prescribed records and logbooks. Assist with the checking of
logbooks. Collect and deliver documentation and related items in the department.
Copy and e mail transport documents. Assist in the registry office, assist with any
other duties delegated by the supervisor. Assist with transport filing and signing
delivery notes services: Enquiries: Ms. B. Mndindwa / Ms. L. Mazwi at (079 284
6709) For e-Recruitment Enquiries email to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME 2026/27-2027/8 (24 MONTHS)
NOTE : The Department of Community Safety is offering an internship programme. The
programme will be for a non-renewable period of 24 months. Unemployed
Graduates are invited to apply and be in possession of the National Diploma /
Degree as indicated in the requirements below. Applicants who previously
underwent or are currently on an internship programme will not be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 22/292 : INTERN: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: DoCS: 07/06/2026
SALARY : R98 097 per annum
CENTRE : Bhisho.
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Labour Relations / Labour Law / Human Resource
Management / Industrial Psychology. Be a South African citizen. Must have no
criminal record. Applicants must be unemployed and never participated in an
internship programme previously.
176
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. B. Mndindwa /Ms. L. Mazwi at (079 284 6709)
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@safetyec.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS AND TOURISM
DEDEAT in the Eastern Cape is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
APPLICANTS : Applications must be submitted as follows: via the provincial e-recruitment system
accessible at: https://ecprov.gov.za and/or at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za.
The Provincial e-Recruitment System is available 24/7 and closes at 23: 59 on the
Closing Date. To report any e-Recruitment System challenges send an email with
your (i) ID Number, (ii) profile email address, (iii) details of your issue to:
Recruitment@dedea.gov.za. Do not send any applications to this email address;
should you do so, your applications/ CV will be regarded as lost and will not be
considered. Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-
Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Friday). Hand-delivered/ E-Mailed/ Faxed/ Posted
applications will not be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026. No late applications will be accepted
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed New Z83 form (effective from
01 January 2021), e-Recruitment System automatically generates Z83
immediately you press apply and generate Z83. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents upon application but
must submit a fully completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in
the e-recruitment system is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted
applications via the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned
Z83 instead will be requested to sign on/or before the interview day. View the list
of the positions you applied for on “My Job Applications” and do note that the
system Z83 does not reflect work experience and qualifications, however, every
detail of your information does reflect to the Recruitment team. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, and other
relevant documents (like a copy of Permanent Resident Permit for Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Holders to HR on or before the interview date.
Failure to submit all the required documents will disqualify the application.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been
contacted within six (6) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship
verification, financial/asset record check, qualification/ study verification and
previous employment verification). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3)
SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive
capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity.
Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation period of twelve 12/24
months. It is the objective to address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action
Measures in line with the Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable
representation across race and gender. The EE targets of the recruiting
Department will be adhered to although the applications are welcome from all racial
groups. The Recruiting Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw
the advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with Disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications). Misrepresentation in the application documents
will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. SMS pre-entry certificate (Nyukela) must
be submitted prior appointment. Full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. Enquiries:
Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909 For e-Recruitment
Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 22/293 : DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC RESEARCH & PLANNING REF.
DEDEAT/2026/06/01
SALARY : R1317 384 – R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus NQF Level 7 (B- Degree/ Advanced Diploma) in
Economics / Developmental Sciences/ Statistics or related. 5 years’ experience
within Economic Development field at middle management or Senior
Management level. Post graduate qualifications will be an added advantage. The
following skills, knowledge, and attributes are required: Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Strategic Planning, Applied Strategic Thinking, Budgeting
177
and Financial Management, Communication and Information Management,
Continuous Improvement, Citizen Focus and Responsiveness, Developing
Others, Diversity Management, Impact and Influence, Managing Interpersonal
Conflict and Resolving Problems A valid driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Undertake and facilitate economic research. Profile, coordinate and consolidate
the provincial research agenda. Manage key stakeholder relations in conducting
and benchmarking economic research. Manage the allocated resources of the
Directorate in line with legislative and departmental policy directives and comply
with corporate governance and planning imperatives
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target: Coloured Male
POST 22/294 : DIRECTOR: DISTRICT SERVICES - OR TAMBO DISTRICT REF.
DEDEAT/2026/06/02
SALARY : R1 317 384 – R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus NQF Level 7 (B- Degree/ Advanced Diploma) in
Economics, Business Management, Public Administration, Environmental
Management Sciences or equivalent 5 years relevant experience at middle
management or senior management level. Nyukela SMS Pre-Entry Certificate. A
valid driver’s licence is required. The following skills, knowledge, and attributes
are required: Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Strategic Planning,
Strategic Capabilities, Leadership skills, Analytical skills, Communication, writing
skills, Computer Literacy, Interpersonal relation and networking, Problem solving
skills, Time Management, Planning and Organizing. A valid driver’s licence is
required.
DUTIES : Strategically lead inter-governmental relations within the areas of economic
development and environmental management in the District. Direct and manage
at a strategic level the implementation of regional and local economic; and
business, development policies, strategies and instruments within the district,
including economic empowerment initiatives. Coordinate the provisioning of
integrated environmental management services within the District. Coordinate
with Entities at the National Level and the DEDEAT Group for the equitable
delivery of economic and business development services to clients in the District.
Coordinate processes within the District to source reliable statistical economic
and business data; secure environmental management data for inclusion in
DEDEAT’s information management systems; and develop and maintain a
consolidated information database/information hub. Manage the allocated
resources of the Office in line with legislative and departmental policy directives
and comply with corporate governance and planning imperatives
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target: African Male
POST 22/295 : DIRECTOR: HR MANAGEMENT & DEVELOPMENT REF.
DEDEAT/2026/06/03
SALARY : R1 317 384 – R 1 551 807 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus NQF Level 7 (B- Degree/ Advanced Diploma) in
Human Resource Management/ Human Resource Development /Industrial
Psychology / Labour Relations / Public Management. NQF Level 8 is an added
advantage. Registration with a relevant professional board/body will be an added
advantage. A valid driver’s licence is required. Minimum 5 years of experience at
a middle/senior managerial level covering the HRM&D value chain (resourcing &
benefits, labour relations, PMDS & skills, EHW & OHS). Exposure to OD/JE
interfaces is advantageous. The following skills, knowledge, and attributes are
required: Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, PFMA, Labour
Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act etc.
Strategic Capabilities, Leadership skills, Analytical skills, Communication, writing
skills, Computer Literacy, Interpersonal relation and networking, Problem solving
skills, Time Management, Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Manage and direct the provisioning of human resource strategy, policy, systems
development and planning services. Manage and direct performance
management, skills development and talent pipelines that support service
delivery needs. Manage and direct human resource provisioning practices and
the administration of service benefits. Manage the provisioning of employee
relation services. Manage the provisioning of integrated employee wellness
services. Manage the allocated resources of the Directorate in line with legislative
and departmental policy directives and comply with corporate governance and
planning imperatives
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
178
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target: Indian Male
POST 22/296 : DIRECTOR: LOCAL & REGIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (LRED) REF.
DEDEAT/2026/06/04
SALARY : R1 317 384 – R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus NQF Level 7 (B- Degree/ Advanced Diploma) in
Economics, Development Studies, Regional and Urban Planning, Public
Administration or Business Management. Post Graduate qualification in
Economic Development, Regional Planning or related field, Membership of
Professional Economic/LED bodies will be an added advantage. 5 years relevant
experience at middle management or Senior Management level. A valid driver’s
license required. The following skills, knowledge, and attributes are required:
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, PEDS, National LED Framework, BBEEE,
SPLUMA, Public Service Act, Strategic Capability & Leadership, Knowledge
Management, Problem Solving, Communication skills and corporate
governance, Intergovernmental Relations Framework, project management,
monitoring and evaluation, stakeholder engagements, negotiation and
partnership building, Report Writing skills, Financial Management, Advanced
Computer Literacy, Planning and Organizing, Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Manage Strategy and Programme development, develop, review and implement
Provincial and regional economic development strategies, policies and
frameworks. Promote spatial economic growth and competitiveness in alignment
with national, provincial and local development priorities. Manage Municipal &
Regional Support and Project Packaging, Provide Technical and Capacity
support to Municipalities and Regional structures to plan, package and
implement Economic Development initiatives. Manage LRED Fund and
Programme Oversight, Provide post investment monitoring, evaluation and
impact assessment of funded projects. Ensure accountability, transparency and
efficient utilisation of financial resources in line with PFMA and Treasury
Regulations. Establish and strengthen partnerships and Intergovernmental
coordination with Municipalities and Provincial Departments (COGTA),
Enterprise Development and BRAG, National Departments, Public entities,
Development agencies, private sector, academic institutions, and Business
associations. Manage the allocated resources of the Office in line with legislative
and departmental policy directives and comply with corporate governance and
planning imperatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target: Indian Male
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/297 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/05
Alfred Nzo District: DEDEAT/2026/06/06
REQUIREMENTS National Senior Certificate plus NQF Level 7 (Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced
Diploma) in Economics/ Business Management / Business Administration/
Business Development Studies / LLB or equivalent 3 years’ experience at
Assistant Director level or Junior Management level The following skills,
knowledge, and attributes are required: Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Strategic Planning, Strategic Capabilities, Leadership skills,
Analytical skills, Communication, writing skills, Computer Literacy, Interpersonal
relation and networking, Problem solving skills, Time Management, Planning and
Organizing. A valid driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Develop policies, guidelines, norms and standards. Manage the promotion and
coordination of integrated economic development, and governance. Monitor and
evaluate economic development activities, business regulation and governance.
Ensure management of capacity building programmes. Facilitate promotion,
protection and enforcement of consumer rights. Manage and perform
administrative and related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target:
Sarah Baartman District: Coloured Female
Alfred Nzo District: African Male
179
POST 22/298 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF. DEDEAT/2026/06/07
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a B Degree (NQF L7) in Human Resource
Management /Labour Relations or equivalent qualifications. A minimum of 3
years’ relevant Labour Related experience, of which 3 years should be at
Assistant Director level. The following skills, knowledge and attributes are
required: Labour Relations Act, Disciplinary Code, Public Service Act, 1994 as
amended by Act 30 of 2007, PFMA, Industrial Policy, Communication, Report
Writing skills, Computer Literacy, Project Management, Financial management,
Management and leadership skills, Planning and Organizing. Valid driver’s
license is required.
DUTIES : Manage, coordinate the provisioning and development of Labour Relations
Policies and implementation of a departmental negotiation framework. Manage
and coordinate the provisioning, of managing consultation services. Supervise
the provisioning of grievances and disputes resolution processes. Supervise the
provisioning of disciplinary processes. Supervise the allocated resources of the
Sub-Directorate in line with legislative and departmental policy directives and
ensure compliance with corporate governance and planning imperatives.
Perform and manage administrative and related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target: African Male/PWD
POST 22/299 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: AGRO PROCESSING REF. DEDEAT/2026/06/08
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a B Degree (NQF L7) in Agriculture and related.
3 years’ experience at Assistant Director level/ junior management level. The
following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: Public Service Act, 1994
as amended by Act 30 of 2007, PFMA, Special Economic Act, Industrial Policy,
Communication, Report Writing skills, Computer Literacy, Project Management
Financial management, Management and leadership skills, Planning and
Organizing. A valid driver’s license is required.
DUTIES : Analyse the Agro-processing sector and identify opportunities for development
within the sector for the Eastern Cape. Provide specialised Agro processing
industry and sector advisory. Coordinate the provisioning of sector specific
development services and projects. Manage and perform administrative and
related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target: Indian Male/PWD
POST 22/300 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MANUFACTURING REF. DEDEAT/2026/06/09
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a B Degree (NQF level 7) in Business
Development Studies/ Engineering/ Operations management. A minimum of 3
years relevant experience as Assistant Director in the manufacturing
development field or similar. The following skills, knowledge and attributes are
required: Public Service Act, 1994 as amended by Act 30 of 2007. PFMA, Special
Economic Act, Industrial Policy, Communication, Report Writing skills, Computer
Literacy, Project Management, Financial management, Management and
leadership skills, Planning and Organizing. A valid driver’s license is required.
DUTIES : Provide technical support on manufacturing sector development, Facilitate
research in support of manufacturing sector development and coordination,
Facilitate and provide technical and institutional support to relevant provincial and
local government and agencies and related projects in the field of manufacturing,
Facilitate the coordination of the manufacturing sector in the Eastern Cape,
Manage and perform administrative and related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target: Indian Female/PwD
POST 22/301 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR WEB DEVELOPMENT REF. DEDEAT/2026/06/10
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Computer
Science / Information Systems /Information Technology (with Web Development
as specialisation) as recognised by SAQA. 3 Years’ relevant experience at salary
180
level 7/8 in the area of Systems Development; Application Development, Software
Development and/or Programming. Supervisory experience will be an added
advantage. Valid driver’s Licence is required.
DUTIES : The following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: Deep knowledge of a wide
range of work procedures such as: Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Visual Studio.NET, ASP, Databases (Ms SQL 2005/2008R2), IIS 6.0 or IIS 7.0,
JavaScript and SDLC. Knowledge and experience of Microsoft SharePoint 2007/2010,
MySQL, HTML, Security and Cross-browser compatibility, Advanced Technical
Aptitude and knowledge of Web Technologies, Knowledge of effective Web authoring
practices and presentation techniques. Knowledge of relevant web software as well as
Graphics Applications and Techniques, Typographic and Graphic Design Techniques,
Photography and illustration
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target: Coloured Male/Person with Disabilities
POST 22/302 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONSUMER PROTECTION REF.
DEDEAT/2026/06/11
SALARY : R487 197– R573 897 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma NQF level 6 in Consumer
Science / Consumer Affairs/ Law /Relevant Qualification. 3 years experience at
supervisory level or SL7/8. The following skills, knowledge, and attributes are
required: Eastern Cape Consumer Protection Act, Consumer Protection Act etc.
Public Finance Management Act, Public Service Act, Treasury Regulation
Problem Analysis, Influence, Communication, Interpersonal Relations and
Networking, Time Management, Planning and Organising, Report Writing. A valid
driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate the development and the implementation of a targeted
provincial consumer awareness strategy by districts and stakeholders. Oversee
and coordinate the escalation of unresolved or systemic complaints to the
Consumer Protector and relevant regulatory bodies and provide guidance to
district offices on escalation protocols. Manage and direct the development and
maintenance of an effective and efficient administration system to manage
consumer protection initiatives and complaints. Supervise administrative and
related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: Coloured Female
POST 22/303 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONSUMER PROTECTION (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197– R573 897 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/12
Sarah Baartman District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/13
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma NQF level 6 in Consumer
Science / Consumer Affairs/ Law /Relevant Qualification. 3 years’ experience at
supervisory level or SL7/8. The following skills, knowledge, and attributes are
required: Eastern Cape Consumer Protection Act, Consumer Protection Act etc.
Public Finance Management Act, Public Service Act, Treasury Regulation
Problem Analysis, Influence, Communication, Interpersonal Relations and
Networking, Time Management, Planning and Organising, Report Writing. A valid
driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Manage and direct the development and the implementation of a targeted district
consumer awareness strategy, Manage and direct the provisioning of technical
assistance to consumers to resolve complaints, Manage and direct the
development and maintenance of an effective and efficient administration system
for the area of operation to manage consumer protection initiatives and
complaints. Supervise the allocated resources of the Division in line with
legislative and departmental policy directives and ensure compliance with
corporate governance and planning imperatives
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Targets
Chris Hani District: White Male
Sarah Baartman District: Coloured Male
POST 22/304 : INVESTIGATOR: OFFICE OF CONSUMER PROTECTOR REF.
DEDEAT/2026/06/14
SALARY : R487 197– R573 897 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a relevant National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
181
Business Practice, Dispute Resolution / Law / Policing or relevant Consumer
Studies, 3 years’ relevant experience at salary level 7/8, Supervisory experience
will be an added advantage, The following skills, knowledge, and attributes are
required Deep knowledge of a wide range of work procedures such as: Eastern
Cape Consumer Protection Act, and Consumer Protection Act etc. Problem
analysis, Influence, Communication, Interpersonal relations and networking,
Time Management, Planning and Organizing, Report writing. A valid driver’s
licence is required.
DUTIES : Investigate “transversal” adverse business practices and cartel formations
affecting fair, accessible and sustainable marketplace for consumer products and
services within the Province Develop and maintain monitoring and evaluation
instruments to identify adverse transversal business practices in the Province
Develop and maintain an effective and efficient system for the investigation of
priority transgressions, Perform admin related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: Coloured Male
POST 22/305 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOCAL & REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT (LRED) (X 3
POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/15
Joe Gqabi District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/16
OR Tambo District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/17
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF level 6) in Economics/
Business Administration/ Development Studies/ Entrepreneurship/ Business
Management/LED and/ or relevant qualification, The following skills, knowledge,
and attributes are required: Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations etc. Code of Conduct, Basic Condition of
Employment, Cooperative Act, Local Economic Development Act. A valid driver’s
licence is required.
DUTIES : Supervise the implementation of economic development policies, programmes
and instruments within the District, Provide technical support to the District
Municipality and Local Municipalities with the development of IDP strategies and
objectives aimed at targeted economic development strategies, programmes and
projects, Perform monitoring and evaluation processes to determine the impact
of economic development instruments within the District Municipality and Local
Municipalities, Provide economic development advocacy and empowerment
services for the District Municipality and Local Municipalities, Perform and
manage administrative and related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Targets
Chris Hani District: Coloured Female
Joe Gqabi District: African Male
OR Tambo District: Coloured Male
POST 22/306 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOSS CONTROL & ANTI CORRUPTION REF.
DEDEAT/2026/06/18
SALARY : R487 197– R573 897 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF Level 6) or equivalent
in law / investigations and /or relevant qualification. Designation and membership
as a Certified Fraud Examiner / Ethics Officer / Compliance Officer / Certified
Risk Officer. 3 Years’ experience at salary level 7/8 in Law / Investigations.
Supervisory experience will be an added advantage. The following skills,
knowledge, and attributes are required: Deep knowledge of a wide range of work
procedures such as: Investigations, policy development, application of the
relevant legislative procedures, Fraud and corruption prevention, Problem
analysis, Influence, Communication, Interpersonal relation and networking, Time
Management, Planning and Organizing, Report writing, knowledge in computer
applications. A valid driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Provide technical assistance with the development of- and facilitate processes to
ensure the implementation of DEDEAT’S loss control policy instruments by line
managers. Provide technical assistance with the development of- and facilitate
processes to ensure the implementation of DEDEAT’S Anti- Corruption Strategy
by line managers. Investigate instances of loss and corruption in DEDEAT.
Supervise administrative and related functions
ENQUIRIES Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: African Male
182
POST 22/307 : INVESTIGATOR: COMPLIANCE & ENFORCEMENT REF.
DEDEAT/2026/06/19 (X 2 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197– R573 897 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF L6) in (Policing/
Law/Forensic Investigation/ Criminology and related studies). 3 Years
operational experience in the space of criminal investigation. The following skills,
knowledge and attributes are required: NEMA - Ciskei Act- Transkei Decree-
Cape Ordinance, Problem analysis, Influence, Communication, Interpersonal
relation and networking, Time Management, Planning and Organizing, Report
writing. Valid driver's license is required.
DUTIES : Organize and Participate in Overt and Covert Investigations and Operations in
line with the approved SOPs. Plan, coordinate and render compliance
monitoring. Ensure cooperative governance with other Law Enforcement
Agencies. Perform administrative and related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target: White Male, Coloured Male/PWD
POST 22/308 : SUSTAINABLE ENERGY ANALYST REF. DEDEAT/2026/06/20
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma / B-Degree (NQF 6/7)
qualification in the fields of Science /Engineering. 3 Years’ experience related to
sustainable energy development. Valid Driver’s license. Supervisory experience
will be an added advantage. Post Graduate Qualifications will be an added
advantage. The following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: Deep
knowledge of the sustainable energy sector such as: Sustainable Energy
Technologies; and Institutional and legislative frameworks related to sustainable
energy, Problem analysis, Influence, Communication, Interpersonal relation and
networking, Time Management, Planning and Organizing, Report writing. Valid
driver's license is required.
DUTIES : Provide technical support on Energy Development. Assist in the coordination
and facilitation of sustainable energy programs and processes. Provide support
on institutional structures. Perform and manage administrative and related
functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target: White Female
POST 22/309 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R636 978– R728 646 per annum (OSD). An appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD).
CENTRES : Alfred Nzo District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/21
Amathole District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/22
OR Tambo District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/23
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate Plus a 4-year degree/ NQF Level 8 or equivalent
qualification in Natural Sciences/ Environmental Management/ Nature
Conservation /Environmental Law and or related. 6 years post- qualification. A
valid driver’s licence is required. The following skills, knowledge, and attributes
are required: Knowledge of Relevant legislation and frameworks, Public Service
Act, Public Service Regulations, PFMA, NEMA, NEMBA, Well-developed
communication and reporting skills, Strong planning, coordination, and project
management skills, Financial and budgeting knowledge, including technical and
financial reporting, Good interpersonal relations, ability to work independently
and in a team, ability to work under pressure, and Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the provisioning of conservation services and ensure the
sustainable use of the area of operation’s biodiversity and coastline. Manage and
coordinate the provisioning of environmental empowerment and projects
services. Manage and coordinate the provisioning of environmental impact,
waste management and coordinate the implementation of sustainable air quality
services. Manage and coordinate the provisioning of environmental compliance
and enforcement management services. Perform and manage administrative
and related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Targets:
Alfred Nzo District: African Female
Amathole District: Indian Male/Person with Disabilities
OR Tambo District: African Female
183
POST 22/310 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: CLIMATE CHANGE REF.
DEDEAT/2026/06/24
SALARY : R636 978 – R728 646 per annum (OSD). An appropriate salary will be
determined according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD).
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate Plus a 4-year degree/ NQF Level 8 or equivalent
qualification in Natural Sciences, Environmental Management, Nature
Conservation, Environmental Law, Climate Change, or Renewable Energy
Studies. A minimum of 6 years’ post-qualification experience in the climate
change environment or related field. A valid driver’s licence is required. The
following skills, knowledge, and attributes are required: Knowledge of Relevant
legislation and frameworks (National Environmental Management Act, Climate
Change Act, NEMBA, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, PFMA and
Treasury Regulations), Policy development processes and implementation, and
Climate change mitigation and adaptation issues, including South Africa’s
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emission profile, Just Transition policy priorities, and
energy transition frameworks. Skills and competencies: Well-developed
communication and reporting skills, Strong planning, coordination, and project
management skills, Financial and budgeting knowledge, including technical and
financial reporting, Good interpersonal relations, ability to work independently
and in a team, ability to work under pressure, and Computer literacy. Added
advantage: Experience in integrating climate change considerations into
municipal planning and development frameworks.
DUTIES : Provide and coordinate integrated climate change management planning and
development practices. Develop and maintain integrated climate change
management policy, legislation and regulations. Coordinate the implementation
of climate change management-related policies and regulations, monitor,
evaluate and report on the impact thereof. Develop and maintain an integrated
climate change information management system. Perform and manage
administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: Indian Female
POST 22/311 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: COMPLIANCE &
ENFORCEMENT (X 2 POSTS)
SALARY : R636 978 – R728 646 per annum (OSD). An appropriate salary will be
determined according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD).
CENTRE : Bhisho: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/25
Joe Gqabi District: Ref: DEDEAT/2026/06/26
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate Plus a 4-year degree or equivalent qualification in
Natural Sciences/ Environmental Management/ Nature
Conservation/Environmental Law and related. 6 years post-qualification. A valid
driver’s licence is required. The following skills, knowledge, and attributes are
required: Knowledge of Relevant legislation and frameworks (National
Environmental Management Act, Climate Change Act, NEMBA, Public Service
Act, Public Service Regulations, PFMA and Treasury Regulations), well-
developed communication and reporting skills, Strong planning, coordination,
and project management skills, Financial and budgeting knowledge, including
technical and financial reporting, Good interpersonal relations, ability to work
independently and in a team, ability to work under pressure, and Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Manage the development of Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement policies,
legislation, protocols, regulations, strategies and guidelines Plan, coordinate and
render Compliance Monitoring, Manage Compliance Enforcement operations,
Manage compliance promotion / awareness. Perform and manage administrative
and related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE Employment Equity Target:
Bhisho: White Male/Person with disabilities
Joe Gqabi District: African Male
POST 22/312 : LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER MR5 REF. DEDEAT/2026/06/27 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R483 219 – R685 812 per annum (OSD) Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus an LLB Degree (NQF L7) or equivalent
qualification. At least 8 years’ appropriate post-qualification legal experience.
Admission as an Attorney / Advocate will be an added advantage. The following
184
skills, knowledge, and attributes are required: National Environmental
Management Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, NEMBA,
Computer literacy and skills, good writing, and communication skills. A valid
driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Provide legal, legal drafting and compliance advisory services. Coordinate the
provisioning of litigation, appeal, contract development and specialised
environmental law advisory and support services. Manage allocated resources
and ensure compliance with governance and planning frameworks. Perform and
manage administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: White Female/PWD
POST 22/313 : SPECIALISED ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER: COMPLIANCE &
ENFORCEMENT (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R518 769 – R717 846 per annum (OSD) Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : O.R Tambo Region X3 Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/28
Amathole District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/29
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate Plus a 4-year degree/ NQF Level 8 or equivalent
qualification in Natural Sciences/ Environmental Management/ Nature
Conservation /Environmental Law and or related. No experience as per OSD
requirements; however, 1-2 years’ relevant experience will be an added
advantage. The following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: NEMA
and all its subsidiary acts. Natural Scientific Professions Act, Public Service Act,
Computer literacy and skills; Good writing and communication skills; Knowledge
of Public Service Regulations. A valid driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Provide environmental enforcement services. Conduct enforcement promotion
awareness processes in the district. Perform and manage administrative and
related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target: OR Tambo Region: Coloured Male/ Coloured
Female/African Female
Employment Equity target: Amathole District: White Male/Person with Disabilities
POST 22/314 : SPECIALISED ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
MANAGEMENT REF. DEDEAT/2026/06/30
SALARY : R518 769– R717 846 per annum (OSD) Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate Plus a 4-year degree/ NQF Level 8 or equivalent
qualification in Natural Sciences/ Environmental Management/ Nature
Conservation /Environmental Law and or related. No Experience as per OSD
requirements however 1-2 years’ experience will be an added advantage. The
following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: National Environmental
Management Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, NEMBA,
Computer literacy and skills; Good writing and communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide specialised production environmental impact management services.
Provide technical support with the assessment of environmental impact application
in instances where DEDEAT is not the competent authority. Provide technical
support to analyse, evaluate and monitor the status of the environmental impact
management practices within the province. Perform and manage administrative
and related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: African Male
POSTS 22/315 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALISED PRODUCTION: BIODIVERSITY
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R518 769– R717 846 per annum Appropriate salary will be determined according
to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Amathole District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/31
Sarah Baartman District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/32
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate Plus a 4-year degree/ NQF Level 8 or equivalent
qualification in Natural Sciences/ Environmental Management/ Nature
Conservation /Environmental Law and or related. No experience as per OSD
requirements; however, 1-2 years’ experience will be an added advantage. A
valid driver’s licence is required. The following skills, knowledge and attributes
are required: National Environmental Management Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Service Act, NEMBA, Computer literacy and skills; Good
185
writing and communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide specialised technical support and input with the development,
maintenance and implementation of the district’s biodiversity management plan.
Provide specialised technical advisory services to ensure institutional and
development compliance with coastal management legislation. Evaluate complex
biodiversity and Coastal Zone authorisation applications and supervise
compliance adjudication processes. Provide specialised technical and
procedural biodiversity and Coastal Zone advisory services within the area of
operation. Perform administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Target:
Amathole District: Coloured Male
Sarah Baartman District: Indian Male/Person with Disabilities
POST 22/316 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALISED PRODUCTION: COASTAL
ZONE MANAGEMENT REF. DEDEAT/2026/06/33
SALARY : R518 769– R717 846 per annum Appropriate salary will be determined according
to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate Plus a 4-year degree/ NQF Level 8 or equivalent
qualification in Natural Sciences/ Environmental Management/ Nature
Conservation /Environmental Law and or related. No Experience as per OSD
requirements, however 1-2 years’ experience will be an added advantage A valid
driver’s licence is required. The following skills, knowledge and attributes are
required: National Environmental Management Act, Public Service Regulations,
Public Service Act, NEMBA, Computer literacy and skills; Good writing and
communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide specialised technical support and input with the development,
maintenance and implementation of the district’s biodiversity management plan.
Provide specialised technical advisory services to ensure institutional and
development compliance with coastal management legislation. Evaluate
complex biodiversity and Coastal Zone authorisation applications and supervise
compliance adjudication processes. Provide specialised technical and
procedural biodiversity and Coastal Zone advisory services within the area of
operation. Perform administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: Coloured Female
POST 22/317 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: BIODIVERSITY (X7
POSTS)
SALARY : R357 597– R395 352 per annum (OSD) Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Amathole District Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/34 (2 Posts)
Sarah Baartman District Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/35 (2 Posts)
Joe Gqabi District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/36 (2 Posts)
Chris Hani District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/37
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Environmental Management/Natural Sciences/ Nature Conservation /
Environmental Law and / related. No experience as per OSD requirements;
however, 1-2 years’ relevant experience will be an added advantage. Extensive
knowledge and understanding of applicable related policies and regulations
pertaining to Environmental Management. Knowledge and experience in
Community-Based Natural Resource and Biological Diversity Management. The
following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: Computer literacy, good
writing and communication skills; Knowledge of applicable environmental
legislation (National Environmental Management Act, NEM Protected Areas Act,
NEM Biodiversity Act). Valid driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Provide technical assistance with the development and implementation of the
district’s biodiversity management plan in line with provincial policy, norms, and
standard imperatives. Evaluate biodiversity authorisation applications and
conduct compliance adjudication processes. Provide technical and procedural
biodiversity advisory services within the area of operation. Perform and manage
administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
Employment Equity Targets:
NOTE Amathole District: Coloured Male/African Male
Sarah Baartman District: White Male/Coloured Male
Joe Gqabi District: African Males
Chris Hani District: Coloured Male
186
POST 22/318 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: COASTAL ZONE
MANAGEMENT REF. DEDEAT/2026/06/38
SALARY : R357 597 – R395 352 per annum (OSD) Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Environmental Management/Natural Sciences/ Nature Conservation /
Environmental Law and / related. No experience as per OSD requirements;
however, 1-2 years’ relevant experience will be an added advantage. Extensive
knowledge and understanding of applicable related policies and regulations
pertaining to Environmental Management. Knowledge and experience in
Community-Based Natural Resource and Biological Diversity Management. The
following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: Computer literacy, good
writing and communication skills; Knowledge of applicable environmental
legislation (National Environmental Management Act, NEM Protected Areas Act,
NEM Biodiversity Act). A valid driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Provide technical support and advisory services to ensure institutional and
development compliance with coastal management legislation, norms and
standards. Evaluate coastal authorisation applications and perform compliance
adjudication processes. Provide technical and procedural coastal management
and utilisation advisory services within the area of operation. Implement Special
Programs. Perform and manage administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target: African Male
POST 22/319 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: ENVIRONMENTAL
EMPOWERMENT SERVICES (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R357 597 – R395 352 per annum (OSD) Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/39
Joe Gqabi District X2 Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/40
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Environmental Management/Natural Sciences/ Nature Conservation /
Environmental Law and / related. No experience as per OSD requirements;
however, 1-2 years’ relevant experience will be an added advantage. The
following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: Knowledge of and
experience in Community-based Natural Resource and Biological Diversity
Management; Computer literacy and skills; Good writing and communication
skills; Knowledge of applicable environmental legislation (National Environmental
Management Act, NEM Protected Areas Act). A valid driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Implement environmental empowerment programmes to facilitate the integration
of environmental education into formal education structures (schools, institutions
of higher learning, etc.). Identify and implement environmental capacity-building
programs for the general public and relevant stakeholders. Promote and
implement environmental awareness programmes. Perform and manage
administrative and related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity target: Sarah Baartman District: African Male
Employment Equity target: Joe Gqabi African Male/Coloured Male
POST 22/320 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT MANAGEMENT (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R357 597– R395 352 per annum (OSD) Appropriate salary will be determined
according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/41
Joe Gqabi District Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/42 (1 Post)
OR Tambo District Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/43 (2 Posts)
Employment Equity targets:
Chris Hani District: African Male
Joe Gqabi District: African Male
OR Tambo District: Coloured Male/African Male
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Environmental Management/Natural Sciences/ Nature Conservation /
Environmental Law and / related. No experience as per OSD requirements;
however, 1-2 years’ relevant experience will be an added advantage. The
following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: Knowledge of and
experience in Community-based Natural Resource and Biological Diversity
Management; Computer literacy and skills; Good writing and communication
187
skills; Knowledge of applicable environmental legislation, National Environmental
Management Act, NEMBA. A valid driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Conduct specialised environmental impact management processes, including
the development of Record of Decisions (RODs), conditions of authorisations
and / or exemptions. Provide technical / procedural advice. Provide technical
assistance with the implementation of other IEM tools. Perform and manage
administrative and related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
POST 22/321 : SENIOR CONSUMER ADVISOR REF. DEDEAT/2026/06/44
SALARY : R413 001– R486 501 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF 6) in Law / Business
Practice and/ or relevant qualification 1- 2 years’ relevant experience. The
following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: Deep knowledge of a wide
range of work procedures such as: Eastern Cape Consumer Protection Act, and
Consumer Protection Act etc. Applied Strategic Thinking, Problem analysis,
Influence, Communication, Decision making Interpersonal relation and
networking, Time Management, Planning and Organizing, Negotiation skills A
valid driver’s licence is required.
DUTIES : Provide technical assistance with the development of and implement the targeted
district consumer awareness strategy. Provide technical assistance to
consumers to resolve complaints. Provide support with the maintenance of an
effective and efficient administration system to manage Consumer Protection
initiatives and Complaints. Perform and manage administrative and related
functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: African Male
POST 22/322 : NETWORK CONTROLLER X2 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRES : Chris Hani District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/45
Sarah Baartman District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/46
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF level 6) in Information
Technology/ Computer Science/ Network Engineering / Information Systems and
/or relevant qualification. 1-2 Years’ experience in the field of Information
Technology. The following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: Public
Service Act, Constitution of South Africa, PFMA, Public Service Regulations etc.
Code of Conduct, Basic Condition of Employment, Corporate Governance of ICT
Policy Framework, Minimum Information Security Standards, Promotion of
Access to Information Act, SITA Act, Applied Strategic Thinking, Problem
analysis, Influence, Communication, Decision-making, Interpersonal relations
and networking, Time Management, Planning and Organizing. Valid Driver’s
license is required.
DUTIES : Provide technical support to users on the LAN. Troubleshoot windows and
perform software installation. Provide help desk and technical support. Render
technical user support services. Perform administrative and related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity targets:
Chris Hani District: Coloured Male
Sarah Baartman District: White Male
POST 22/323 : LOCAL & REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT (LRED) ADVISOR (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRES : Amathole District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/47 (2 Posts)
Joe Gqabi District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/48
OR Tambo District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/49
Sarah Baartman District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/50
Employment Equity targets:
Amathole District: Coloured Male, African Male
Joe Gqabi District: Indian Male/PWD
OR Tambo District: White Male
Sarah Baartman District: White Male
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Economics/
Business Administration/ Development Studies/ Entrepreneurship and/or
relevant qualification. 1-2 years relevant experience. The following skills,
knowledge and attributes are required: Public Service Act, Constitution of South
Africa, PFMA, Public Service Regulations etc. Code of Conduct, Basic Condition
188
of Employment, Cooperative Act, LRED Fund Policy, National LED Framework,
Local Economic Development Act, PEDS (Provincial Economic Development
Strategy, MSME Strategy, White Paper on LED, NISED (National Integrated
Small Enterprise Development Strategy, Public Service Act. Applied Strategic
Thinking, Problem analysis, Influence, Communication, Decision-making,
Interpersonal relations and networking, Time Management, Planning and
Organizing. A valid driver’s license is required.
DUTIES : Coordinate inputs for the development of policies, guidelines, norms and
standards. Promote the coordination of Local & Regional Economic Development
initiatives. Monitor implementation of Local & Regional Economic Development
activities. Coordinate implementation of capacity building programmes. Perform
administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
POST 22/324 : CONSUMER ADVISOR (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Amathole District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/51
Chris Hani District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/52
Joe Gqabi District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/53
Employment Equity targets:
Amathole District: Coloured Female
Joe Gqabi District: Indian Female
Chris Hani District: White Female
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF 6) in Law and/or
relevant (Law) qualification. 1-2 years' relevant experience. The following skills,
knowledge and attributes are required: Deep knowledge of a wide range of work
procedures such as: Eastern Cape Consumer Protection Act, and Consumer
Protection Act etc. Public Service Act, Constitution of South Africa, PFMA, Public
Service Regulations etc. Code of Conduct, Basic Condition of Employment,
Applied Strategic Thinking, Problem analysis, Influence, Communication,
Decision making Interpersonal relation and networking, Time Management,
Planning and Organizing, Negotiation skills. A valid driver’s license is required.
DUTIES : Assist in addressing and correcting the imbalances in negotiating power between
consumers and service providers. Implement promotion and protection of
consumer rights and business regulations. Implement investigation processes.
Perform administrative and related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
POST 22/325 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: CORPORATE MANAGEMENT REF.
DEDEAT/2026/06/54
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate (Grade 12)/ National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in
Administration / Public Management and/ or relevant qualifications.1-2 years
relevant experience. Valid driver’s license. The following skills, knowledge and
attributes are required: Public Service Act, Public Service regulations, Provincial
Legislation, Exposure to POPIA and PAIA, Basic financial management
principles, Communication, Report Writing skills, Computer Literacy (proficiency
in MS Office Suite, government systems, and emerging digital tools).
DUTIES : Render secretariat support service to the Chief Director/ Director(s). Renders
administrative support services to the Chief Director/ Director(s). Provide support
in the coordination of logistical arrangements for the Chief Directorate/
Directorate. Provide administrative and related support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: Coloured Female
POST 22/326 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 – R 398 277 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/55
Sarah Baartman District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/56
Employment Equity Targets
Chris Hani District: African Male
Sarah Baartman District: White Female
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate (Grade 12 plus a National Diploma (NQF Level 6)
in Administration / Public Management and/ or relevant qualifications. 1-2 years
relevant experience. A valid driver’s license. The following skills, knowledge and
attributes are required: Public Service Act, Public Service regulations, Provincial
Legislation, Exposure to POPIA and PAIA, Basic financial management
189
principles, Communication, Report Writing skills, Computer Literacy (proficiency
in MS Office Suite, government systems, and emerging digital tools).
DUTIES : Render secretariat support service to the Directorate. Renders administrative
support services to the Directorate. Provide support in the coordination of
logistical arrangements for the Directorate. Provide administrative and related
support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
POST 22/327 : TRANSPORT OFFICER REF. DEDEAT/2026/06/57
SALARY : R338 106 – R 398 277 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate (Grade 12) plus National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Fleet Management/ Supply Chain Management / Logistics Management /or
equivalent qualification. 1-2 years relevant experience. A valid driver’s license.
The following skills, knowledge and attributes are required: Public Service Act,
Treasury Regulations, PFMA, Public Service Regulation Communication,
Computer Literacy, Financial management, Interpersonal skills
DUTIES : Implementation of transport legislations and policies. Ensure/manage proper
completion and regular scrutiny of all transport and fleet management records.
Monitor and evaluate compliance of transport and fleet management Legislation.
Perform and manage administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: Coloured Male
POST 22/328 : ACCOUNTING CLERK (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRES : Amathole: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/58
Joe Gqabi District: Ref. DEDEAT/2026/06/59
Employment Equity Targets:
Sarah Baartman District: Coloured Female
Joe Gqabi District: Indian Male/Person with Disabilities
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12 (NQF level 4). 1-2 years relevant
experience will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license. The following
skills, knowledge and attributes are required: Public Service Act, Treasury
Regulations, PFMA, Public Service Regulation Communication, Computer
Literacy, Financial management, Interpersonal skills
DUTIES : Implementation of transport legislations and policies. Ensure/manage proper
completion and regular scrutiny of all transport and fleet management records.
Monitor and evaluate compliance of transport and fleet management Legislation.
Perform and manage administrative and related functions
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMMES 2026/27-2027/28 (24 MONTHS)
NOTE : This advertisement is issued to all unemployed applicants from the in the EC
Province, who are in possession of a 3- year qualification Degree or National
Diploma from an accredited Tertiary Institution. Persons with disability and
people from previously disadvantaged groups are encouraged to apply.
Applicants who have already participated in any Government Internship
Programme will not be considered and if it is found that this was the case after
verification, the application will not be considered. The primary purpose of
internship program in government is acquisition of skill, knowledge and
experience to compete in the open market and Public Service. A proof of
legitimate proof of residential address (Not older than 3 months) will be required
on or before the interview date. Targets of the department will be adhered to.
Applicants must apply online using https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za through the
E-recruitment system N.B. The Department Of Economic Development,
Environmental Affairs And Tourism (DEDEAT) is the affirmative action employer,
therefore, people from the designated groups are encouraged to apply.
Preference will be given to PWD.Mr. M. Ntebe at 066 486 8268 E-Recruitment
Enquiries: Olwethu.Desi@dedea.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/329 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME REF NO: DEDEAT/2026/06/60
Directorate: Communications
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office
190
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/ Degree/Honours/Masters: in Communication or Journalism
with a focus on digital communication /Creative Writing and social media/
Content creation, film/TV/ stills production, digital marketing
APPLICATIONS : via e-Recruitment at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Ntebe 066 486 8268
e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
POST 22/330 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME REF NO: DEDEAT/2026/06/61
Directorate: Employee Health & Wellness
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : BA Social Work Degree qualification and valid registration with the South African
Council of Social Service Professions (SACSSP)
APPLICATIONS : via e-Recruitment at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Ntebe 066 486 8268
e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
POST 22/331 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME REF NO: DEDEAT/2026/06/62
Directorate: Legal Services
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree/Honours/Masters qualification in Bachelor of Laws/LLB
APPLICATIONS : via e-Recruitment at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Ntebe 066 486 8268
e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
POST 22/332 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME REF NO: DEDEAT/2026/06/63
Directorate: Risk Management
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 in Risk Management / Auditing / equivalent qualification / Law/LLB
APPLICATIONS : via e-Recruitment at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Ntebe Tel No: 066 486 8268
e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICANTS : Applications must be submitted as follows: via the provincial e-recruitment system
accessible at: https://ecprov.gov.za and/or at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za.
The Provincial e-Recruitment System is available 24/7 and closes at 23: 59 on the
Closing Date. To report any e-Recruitment System challenges send an email with
your (i) ID Number, (ii) profile email address, (iii) details of your issue to:
recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za. Do not send any applications to this email address;
should you do so, your applications/ CV will be regarded as lost and will not be
considered. Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-
Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Friday). Hand-delivered/ E-Mailed/ Faxed/ Posted
applications will not be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026. No late applications will be accepted
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed New Z83 form (effective from
01 January 2021), e-Recruitment System automatically generates Z83
immediately you press apply and generate Z83. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents upon application but
must submit a fully completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in
the e-recruitment system is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted
applications via the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned
Z83 instead will be requested to sign on/or before the interview day. View the list
of the positions you applied for on “My Job Applications” and do note that the
system Z83 does not reflect work experience and qualifications, however, every
detail of your information does reflect to the Recruitment team. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, and other
relevant documents (like a copy of Permanent Resident Permit for Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Holders to HR on or before the interview date.
Failure to submit all the required documents will disqualify the application.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been
contacted within six (6) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship
verification, financial/asset record check, qualification/ study verification and
previous employment verification). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
191
requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3)
SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive
capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity.
Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation period of twelve 12/24
months. It is the objective to address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action
Measures in line with the Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable
representation across race and gender. The EE targets of the recruiting
Department will be adhered to although the applications are welcome from all racial
groups. The Recruiting Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw
the advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with Disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications). Misrepresentation in the application documents
will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. SMS pre-entry certificate (Nyukela) must
be submitted prior appointment. Full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. White or
Coloured males and People with disabilities are encouraged to apply Enquiries Mr
Y Singqandu at Tel No: 043 5042. recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
MANEGEMENT ECHELON
POST 22/333 : DISTRICT DIRECTOR (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 317 384 – R1 551 807.per annum (Level 13) all-inclusive remuneration
package
CENTRE : Amathole (Ref No DSD 01/06/2026)
BCM (Ref No DSD 02/06/2026)
Joe Gqabi (Ref No DSD 03/06/2026)
OR Tambo (Ref No DSD 04/06/2026)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, B. Degree (NQF Level 7 as recognized by SAQA) in
Social Science or Social Work or Community Development or Public Administration
with 5 years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-Entry Programme endorsed by
the National School of Government (NSG) is a pre-requisite. Sound Knowledge of
Public Management Framework will serve as a recommendation. A valid driver’s
license is a prerequisite. Competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership. People
Management and Empowerment. Programme and project management. Financial
management. Change management. Knowledge management. Service delivery
innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer focus.
Communication (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Coordinate and manage activities within the district office. Design strategies and
mechanisms for service delivery that are area-specific, operations and
management of Programme and project delivery at the service Centre in the area.
Co-ordinate administrative support to service centres within the metro district.
Conduct district profiling and analyses emerging trends. Develop business plans
that are area-specific and aligned with the municipal IDPS. Evaluate outcomes of
service at community level. Manage the communication office. Facilitate the
development of District plans that are aligned with a departmental strategic plan.
Manage administrative support services for capacitating service centre. Develop a
strategy for partnership, collaboration and management of such a network.
Oversee the implementation of the Departmental Transformation plan within the
district. Provide strategic direction, operation and leadership to ensure
implementation of key policies and programmes in alignment with Provincial Policy
directives. Manage District and Area Offices as focus points of service delivery. To
provide strategic leadership to ensure that services are delivered in a coherent and
integrated manner to communities. Monitor and ensure full operations at all levels
in the OR Tambo District. A clear understanding of both the provincial and
departmental priorities as espoused in the NDP, PGDP, SOPA, and the MEC’s
Policy Speech. To ensure the institutionalization and establishment of an
operational organizational performance information management system and
practices in the department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Y Singqandu at Tel No: (043) 605 5042 or Ms Q Blayi Tel No: (043) 605 5048
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African /Coloured Male/ female & PWD
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/334 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: YOUTH DEVELOPMENT GRADE
1REF NO: DSD 05/06/2026
(Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply)
SALARY : R1 009 512 – R1 154 271 per annum (OSD) all-inclusive remuneration package
192
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate relevant three-year qualification at NQF level 6/7 (Bachelor’s
degree / three-year National diploma) in Community Development/Social Science/
Developmental Studies/Youth Development/Public Administration/
Education. Minimum of 10 years recognisable, practical experience in community
development after obtaining the required qualification, ideally with a minimum of
three (3) years’ experience at Assistant Manager Community Development level.
A valid driver’s license and willingness to conduct site visits in urban and rural
communities. Core Competencies: Emotional intelligence and cultural
competencies. strong advocacy, negotiation and problem-solving skills. High
political sensitivity and commitment to public service/ corporate social
responsibility. Ability to work independently and under pressure. Knowledge and
Skills: Deep understanding of social dynamics and human behaviour. Proficiency
in project management, conflict resolution and budget administration. Excellent
written / verbal communication skills in English / preferably isiXhosa or another
local language.
DUTIES : Manage the identification, facilitation, and implementation of integrated
development interventions in partnership with the community and other relevant
stakeholders through the efficient, effective, economical utilisation of resources by
the sub directorate. Monitor, interpret, review legislation and policies to determine
whether these prescripts are still relevant and comply with current requirements.
Develop proposals to amend / maintain the relevant acts and policies and develop
new policies where required. The incumbent will promote youth entrepreneurship
and cooperative initiatives, skills development programmes, linking youth with
socio-economic opportunities and ensure programmes align with national and
provincial policies. Manage the sub directorate to ensure that an efficient and
effective community development service is delivered through the proper utilisation
of human, financial and physical resources. Keep up to date with new
developments in the community development and management field to enhance
service delivery. Plan and ensure that research on youth community development
is undertaken. Undertake / facilitate complex youth development research to meet
the community needs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Y Singqandu at Tel No: (043) 605 5042 or Ms Q Blayi Tel No: (043) 605 5048
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African/Coloured Male
POST 22/335 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MANAGER GRADE 1 REF NO DSD 06/06/2026
(Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply)
SALARY : R1 009 512 – R1 154 271 per annum (OSD) all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Chris Hani: District Office, Queenstown
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate relevant three-year qualification at NQF level 6/7 (Bachelor’s
degree / three-year National diploma) in in Community Development/
Developmental Studies/ Social Science/Public Administration/
Education. Minimum of 10 years recognisable, practical experience in community
development after obtaining the required qualification, ideally with a minimum of
three (3) years’ experience at Assistant Manager Community Development level.
A valid driver’s license and willingness to conduct site visits in urban and rural
communities. Core Competencies: Emotional intelligence and cultural
competencies. strong advocacy, negotiation and problem-solving skills. High
political sensitivity and commitment to public service/ corporate social
responsibility. Ability to work independently and under pressure. Knowledge and
Skills: Deep understanding of social dynamics and human behaviour. Proficiency
in project management, conflict resolution and budget administration. Excellent
written / verbal communication skills in English / preferably isixhosa or another local
language.
DUTIES : Design, execute and monitor integrated development programs e.g. youth, women,
poverty alleviation etc. to address localised community needs. Facilitate
partnerships between local communities, municipalities donors and civil society.
Represent the Department on community forums. Financial management and
ensure compliance with public regulations (PFMA or specific grant rules) and draft
fundraising proposals if necessary. Supervise, mentor and evaluate community
development practitioners. Ensure staff are equipped with skills to run participatory,
evidence -based programs.
ENQUIRIES : Chris Hani enquiries may be directed to Ms N Mzinjana, Tel No: 045 808 3709
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African, Male
POST 22/336 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: SOCIAL WELFARE SERVICES GRADE 1 REF
NO: DSD 07/06/2026
SALARY : R1 009 512 – R1 154 271 per annum (OSD) all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Amathole: District Office, KuGompo
193
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, B Degree in Social Work plus a minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in social work after registration as Social
Worker with the SACSSP (latest copy of registration/current year), of which 3-5
years must be at Social Work Supervisory level in the Developmental Welfare
Services’ dealing with Services to Older Persons, Persons with Disabilities, HIV &
AIDS and Social Relief. A valid South African drivers’ license is a prerequisite.
Competencies: Strategic Capacity and Leadership. Programme and Project
Management, Change Management, Financial Management, People Management
and Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and analysis,
Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication and Computer Literacy.
Knowledge and Skills: Expert skills to challenge structural sources of poverty,
inequality, oppression, discrimination and exclusion. Expert knowledge and
understanding of human behaviour and social systems and skills to intervene at
the points where people interact with their environments to promote social well-
being. The ability and competence to assist and empower individuals, families,
groups, organisations and communities to enhance their social functioning and
their problem-solving capacities, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources
effectively in cases where expert knowledge is required. The understanding and
ability to provide complex social work services towards protecting people who are
vulnerable, at-risk and unable to protect themselves. The ability to compile complex
reports
DUTIES : Provide a social work service of the highest, most advanced and specialized nature
within (a) defined area(s) of specialization regarding to care, support, protection
and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes in partnership with stakeholders. Management
and Support to Developmental Social Welfare Services Programmes in line with
the legislation, policies, regulatory framework, norms and standards focusing on
the following: Services to Older Persons, Persons with disabilities, HIV& AIDS and
Social Relief. Attend to any other matters that could result in, or stem from, social
instability in any form. Facilitate the development and planning of programmes and
interventions to render social work service through the efficient, economical and
effective utilization of financial resources. Manage a social work unit to ensure that
an efficient and effective social work service is delivered through the efficient and
effective utilization of human resources. Keep up to date with new developments
in the Social Work and Management fields. Plan and ensure that Social Work
Research and Development are undertaken. Undertake complex social work
research. Perform and/or ensure that all the administrative functions required in
the programme are performed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Habe at Tel No: (043) 711 6626
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African, Male
POST 22/337 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER GRADE 1 REF NO: DSD 08/06/2026
SALARY : R1 009 512 – R1 154 271 per annum (OSD) all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : BCM: District Office, KuGompo
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, B Degree in Social Work plus a minimum of 10 years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in social work after registration as Social
Worker with the SACSSP (latest copy of registration/current year), of which 3-5
years should be at a Social Work Supervisory level in the Developmental Social
Welfare Services’ space dealing with Services to Older Persons, Persons with
Disabilities, HIV & AIDS and Social Relief. A valid South African drivers’ license is
a prerequisite. Competencies: Strategic Capacity and Leadership, Programme and
Project management, Change Management, Financial Management, People
Management and Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and
analysis, Client orientation and Customer Focus, Communication and Advanced
Computer Literacy. Knowledge and Skills: Expert skills to challenge structural
sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and exclusion. Expert
knowledge and understanding of human behaviour and social systems and skills
to intervene at the points where people interact with their environments to promote
social well-being. The ability and competence to assist and empower individuals,
families, groups, organisations and communities to enhance their social
functioning and their problem-solving capacities, prevent and alleviate distress and
use resources effectively in cases where expert knowledge is required. The
understanding and ability to provide complex social work services towards
protecting people who are vulnerable, at-risk and unable to protect themselves.
The ability to compile complex reports
DUTIES : Provide a social work service of the highest, most advanced and specialised nature
within (a) defined area(s) of specialisation regarding the care, support, protection
and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes in partnership with stakeholders. Management
and support to Developmental Social Welfare Services Programmes in line with
the legislation, policies, regulatory framework, norms and standards focusing on
the following: Services to Older Persons, Persons with Disabilities, HIV & AIDS and
194
Social Relief. Attend to any other matters that could result in, or stem from, social
instability in any form. Facilitate the development and planning of programmes and
interventions to render a social work service through the efficient, economical and
effective utilisation of financial resources. Manage a social work unit to ensure that
an efficient and effective social work service is delivered through the efficient and
effective utilisation of human resources. Keep up to date with new developments
in the social work and management fields. Plan and ensure that social work
research and development are undertaken. Undertake complex social work
research. Perform and/or ensure that all the administrative functions required in
the unit are performed.
ENQUIRIES : BCM Enquiries may be directed to Ms P. Gqabantshi Tel No: 043 705-5675/73
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African, Female & PWD
POST 22/338 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER GRADE 1 - RESTORATIVE SERVICES REF NO
DSD 09/06/2026
SALARY : R1 009 512 – R1 154 271 per annum (OSD) all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : OR Tambo: District Office, Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, B Degree in Social Work plus a minimum of 10 years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in social work after registration as Social
Worker with the SACSSP (latest copy of registration/current year), of which 3-5
years must be at Social Work Supervisory level. A valid South African drivers’
license is a prerequisite. Competencies: Expert knowledge of the Children’s Act,
2005 with specific reference to Chapter 13, Prevention of and Treatment for
Substance Abuse Act, 2008, Child Justice Act, 2008 and Restorative Justice
Process. An understanding of Child and Youth Care Systems including expert
knowledge of the Minimum Standards of Child and Youth Care. Inherent
enthusiasm for work with children in conflict with the law. Experience in working
with children in trouble with the law in a secure care environment. Strategic
planning skills. Sound knowledge of the Labour Relations Act of 1995 as well as
the grievance procedure. Financial management skills. Stakeholder relations
skills. Project management skills. Leadership and good interpersonal relations
skills. Policy analysis. Computer literacy. Good communication and writing skills.
Facilitation, monitoring and evaluation skills.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership to the district through planning, budgeting and
development of monitoring and evaluation systems. Develop and strengthen
relationships with the NGO and Government sectors within the Criminal Justice
System. Manage, develop and strengthen relationships with the NPO sector and
other. Government Departments and agencies within the Criminal Justice System.
Analyse policies and develop programmes for the management of children in
conflict with the law. Coordinate other departments and civil society for integrated
services and programmes for children in conflict with law, woman affected by crime
and violence. Management support to the Specialist Social Service programmes
in line with the legislation, policies, regulatory framework, norms and standards
focusing on the following: Crime Prevention and Support Programmes, Victim
Empowerment and Substance Abuse, Prevention, Treatment and Rehabilitation
Services. Provide a social work service of the highest, most advanced and
specialised nature within defined area(s) of specialization with regard to the care,
support, protection and development of children through the relevant programmes
in partnership with stakeholders. Attend to any other matters that could result in, or
stem from, social instability in any form. Facilitate the development and planning
of programmes and interventions to render a social work service through the
efficient, economical and effective utilization of financial resources. Willingness to
travel.
ENQUIRIES : OR Tambo Enquiries may be directed to Ms Z Dlanjwa Tel No: 064 607 1200
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African, Female & PWD
POST 22/339 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 (8 POSTS)
SALARY : R496 668 – R583 833 per annum
CENTRE : BCM: Mdantsane 2, KuGompo (Ref No DSD 10/06/2026)
Chris Hani: Indwe Service Office (Ref No DSD 11/06/2026)
Hofmeyer Service Office (Ref No DSD 12/06/2026)
Cala Service Office (Ref No DSD 13/06/2026)
Joe Gqabi: Ugie SDP (Ref No DSD 14/06/2026)
Burgersdorp (Ref No DSD 15/06/2026)
OR Tambo: Nyandeni LSO (Ref No DSD 16/06/2026)
Tsolo SDP (Ref No DSD 17/06/2026)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of Social Work. Latest proof of registration
with the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Worker. Minimum of 7 (seven) years appropriate experience in Social Work after
registration and practiced as a Social Worker. Computer literacy. A valid South
195
African driver’s license. Appropriate/recognisable Social Work experience after
registration with the SACSSP as Social Worker will be considered for appointment.
Competencies: Leadership and understanding of new Social Welfare paradigm,
policies, legislation and regulations that underpins the delivery of Social
Development service in the NPOs, CBOs, and FBOs. Understanding of Service
Level Agreement and ability to communicate this to appropriate stakeholders.
Project management, Research and analytical skills. Ability to monitor and
evaluate the impact of service delivery. Planning and organizing skills. Ability to
work under pressure and display initiative. Understanding of public sector
transformation and equity issues. Presentation and facilitation skills including
sound report writing abilities. Financial, Supply Experience in community
involvement. Communication skills (both verbal and written).
DUTIES : Be responsible for crime prevention Programmes to young persons at risk in and
out of school. Assist the Probation Officers in the implementation of diversion
Programmes by gathering information for report writing, and like skills
Programmes. Provide home-based supervision of young persons who are awaiting
trial in the community rather than in prisons or residential care facilities. Provide
supervision services to those young people’s placed by the court under community
service and probation supervision orders. Be responsible for family finding or
tracing where it is necessary.
ENQUIRIES : BCM Enquiries may be directed to Ms P. Gqabantshi Tel No: 043 705-5675/73
Chris Hani enquiries may be directed to Ms N Mzinjana, Tel No: 045 808 3709
Joe Gqabi Enquiries may be directed to Ms P. Tsuputse Tel No: (051) 6339715
OR Tambo Enquiries may be directed to Ms Z Dlanjwa Tel No: 064 607 1200
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African/Coloured Male & PWD
POST 22/340 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 (X17 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 208 – R397 668 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo: Matatiele Local Service Office (Ref No DSD 18/06/2026) X2
Ntabankulu Local Service Office (Ref No DSD 19/06/2026)
Umzimvubu Local Service Office (Ref No DSD 20/06/2026)
Amathole: Middledrift Service Delivery Point (Ref No DSD 21/06/2026)
BCM: East London Service Office (Ref No DSD 22/06/2026)
Chris Hani: Cofimvaba (Ref No DSD 23/06/2026)
Joe Gqabi: Barkley East (Ref No DSD 24/06/2026)
NMM: Protea Place of Safety (Ref No DSD 25/06/2026)
Stepping Stone YJC (Ref No DSD 26/06/2026)
Walmer Service Office (Ref No DSD 27/06/2026)
Ibhayi Service Office (Ref No DSD 28/06/2026)
Motherwell Service Office (Ref No DSD 29/06/2026)
Sarah Baartman: Jansenville SDP (Ref No DSD 30/06/2026)
Joubertina Service Office (Ref No DSD 31/06/2026)
Ndlambe Local Service Office (Ref No DSD 32/06/2026)
Koukamma Local Service Office (Ref No DSD 33/06/2026)
REQUIREMENTS : Standard 10/ Grade 12 plus a Degree in Social Work, registration with the South
African Council for Social Service Profession as a Social Worker. A valid South
African driver’s license is a prerequisite. Computer literacy.
Appropriate/recognisable Social Work experience after registration with the
SACSSP as Social Worker will be considered for appointment. Competencies:
Skills to challenge structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression,
discrimination and exclusion. Knowledge and understanding of human behaviour
and social systems and skills to intervene at the points where people interact with
their environments in order to promote social well – being. Ability and competence
to assist, develop, advocate for, and empower individuals, familiar, groups,
organizations and communities to enhance their social functioning and their
problem – solving capabilities. Ability to promote, restore, maintain, advocate for
and enhance the functioning of individuals, families, groups and communities by
enabling them to accomplish tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use
resources effectively. Understanding and ability to provide social work services
towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect
themselves. Ability to mentor and coach Social Auxiliary Workers.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through
the relevant Programmes. Support Social Auxiliary Workers and Volunteers. Keep
up to date with new developments in the Social Work and Social Welfare fields.
Perform all the administrative functions required.
ENQUIRIES : Alfred Nzo Enquiries may be directed to Mr S Shweni Tel No: (064) 606 9465
Amathole Enquiries may be directed to Ms Z Habe at Tel No: (043) 711 6626
BCM Enquiries may be directed to Ms P. Gqabantshi Tel No: 043 705 5675/73
196
Chris Hani enquiries may be directed to Ms N Mzinjana, Tel No: 045 808 3709
Joe Gqabi Enquiries may be directed to Ms P. Tsuputse Tel No: (051) 633 9715
NMM Enquiries may be directed to Ms L Lukwe Tel No: (041) 406 5811
Sarah Baartman Enquiries may be directed to Mr M Rwexana Tel No: (046) 602
1408/ 1407
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE TARGET: African/Coloured Male/Female & PWD
POST 22/341 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (X 5 POSTS)
SALARY : R289 296 – R337 959 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo: Winnie Madikizela Mandela LSO (Ref No DSD 34/06/2026)
Amathole: Willowvale SDP (Ref No DSD 35/06/2026)
BCM: Mdantsane 2 (Ref No DSD 36/06/2026)
Joe Gqabi: Burgersdorp (Ref No DSD 37/06/2026)
Sarah Baartman: Steytlerville SDP (Ref No DSD 38/06/2026)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a B Degree/ National Diploma in Social Sciences
/Developmental Economics/ Development Studies/Community Development.
Computer literacy will be an added advantage. A valid South African driver’s license
is a prerequisite. Appropriate/recognizable experience after complying with the
required educational qualification will be considered for appointment.
Competencies: Theoretical understanding and practical experience/exposure to
community Development issues. Demonstrate a facilitative approach to motivate
constructive participation in Programme development and implementation. Ability
to document and report on programmes and projects according to required format.
Communication and interpersonal skills, organizing and planning skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate awareness campaigns on community development programmes.
Mobilise local community into Integrated Development Structures. Facilitate
community Development initiatives in each local Municipality. Facilitate the
development of community profiles utilizing contextualized Participatory
Development Methodologies. Facilitate the development and alignment and
utilization of resources from various Departments towards the implementation of
Integrated Development Plans in each local Municipality. Assess application for
funding to the Department by community organizations. Monitor, evaluate and
render support service funded programmes/ Projects.
ENQUIRIES : Alfred Nzo Enquiries may be directed to Mr S Shweni Tel No: (064) 606 9465
Amathole Enquiries may be directed to Ms Z Habe at Tel No: (043) 711 6626
BCM Enquiries may be directed to Ms P. Gqabantshi Tel No: 043 705 5675/73
Joe Gqabi Enquiries may be directed to Ms P. Tsuputse Tel No: (051) 633 9715
Sarah Baartman Enquiries may be directed to Mr M Rwexana Tel No: (046) 602
1408/ 1407
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE TARGET: African/Coloured Male & PWD
POST 22/342 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER GRADE 1 (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R200 691 – R227 145 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Amathole: Great Kei LSO, Komga (Ref No DSD 39/06/2026)
Joe Gqabi: Venterstad, Aliwal North (Ref No DSD 40/06/2026)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as an Auxiliary Social
Worker with the South African Council for (latest copy/current year. Computer
literacy. A valid South African driver’s license will be an added advantage.
Appropriate/recognisable Social Auxiliary Work experience after registration with
the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker will be considered for appointment.
Competencies: Ability to work independently and under pressure. Experience in
community involvement. Communication skills (both verbal and written).
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to Social Workers. Conduct awareness campaigns
on child abuse, abuse of older persons, abuse of substances, abuse of women and
persons living with disability. Monitor Home Based Community Care Centres.
Maintain an efficient and effective system to ensure a smooth flow of information
to Social Workers and Clients.
ENQUIRIES : Amathole Enquiries may be directed to Ms Z Habe at Tel No: (043) 711 6626
Joe Gqabi Enquiries may be directed to Ms P. Tsuputse Tel No: (051) 633 9715
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE TARGET: African/Coloured Male
POST 22/343 : CHILD & YOUTH CARE WORKER GRADE 1 REF NO DSD 41/06/2026 (X 2
POSTS)
SALARY : R191 694 – R215 073 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo: Maluti CYCC
197
REQUIREMENTS : National senior certificate. Appropriate/recognisable Child and Youth Care
experience after obtaining the required qualification will be considered for
appointment. Competencies: Communication: Must be able to convey clear, simple
and easy to understand messages/ information to children and youth. Empathy:
Must be able to respect and build positive relationships with children and youth.
Trustworthiness: Must be able to build a relationship of trust with children and
youth. Honesty: Must be principled and true to oneself and others. Teamwork and
collaboration: Must be able to work cooperatively with others and be part of a team.
Understanding of principles: Must understand and be able to apply the principles
applied in child and youth care. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Care and Development: Must be able to understand and provide care and
development of children and youth. Understanding of basic needs: Must be able to
understand the physical, emotional, spiritual, cognitive and social needs of children
and youth. Administration: Must be able to perform administrative activities relating
to the completion of logbooks, incidents reports, etc Role modelling: Must be able
to identify, allocate and participate in practical activities to transfer skills to children
and youth. Implementation of programs: Must be able to assist in the
Implementation of planned programs and activities for children and youth on the
basis of their identified developmental needs. Understanding of children’s rights:
Must be able to promote and uphold the rights of children and youth. Knowledge
of rules and procedures: Must know the rules and procedures of the care centre.
ENQUIRIES : Alfred Nzo Enquiries may be directed to Mr S Shweni Tel No: (064) 606 9465
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE TARGET: African/Coloured Male/ Female & PWD
POST 22/344 : ASSISTANT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER GR 1 (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R191 694 – R215 073 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Amathole: Middledrift SDP (Ref No DSD 42/06/2026)
Sarah Baartman: Koukamma Local Service Office (Ref No DSD 43/06/2026)
OR Tambo: District Office (Ref No DSD 44/06/2026)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate or equivalent certificate. Appropriate/recognizable experience
after complying with the required educational qualification will be considered for
appointment. A Valid Driver’s License in essential. Competencies: Interpersonal
Skills or the ability to interact with people and community structures. Compassion
for those in need and vulnerable. Understanding of Social dynamics and basic
knowledge of community development. Passion in Community Development.
Willingness to learn. Communication Skills. Knowledge of local language and
culture. Competency in computer and inventories would be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Perform community and household profiling. Assist communities in accessing
services offered by Government Departments. Attend community meetings and
Imbizos to collect information on community needs and provide the required
support in integrated planning. Assist in maintenance and support to funded
community projects.
ENQUIRIES : Amathole Enquiries may be directed to Ms Z Habe at Tel No: (043) 711 6626
Sarah Baartman Enquiries may be directed to Mr M Rwexana Tel No: (046) 602
1408/ 1407
OR Tambo Enquiries may be directed to Ms Z Dlanjwa Tel No: 064 607 1200
e-Recruitment Technical Support: Recruitment@ecdsd.gov.za
NOTE : EE TARGET: African/Coloured Male & PWD
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, RECREATION, ARTS & CULTURE
APPLICANTS : Applications must be submitted as follows: via the provincial e-recruitment system
accessible at: https://ecprov.gov.za and/or at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za.
The Provincial e-Recruitment System is available 24/7 and closes at 23: 59 on the
Closing Date. To report any e-Recruitment System challenges send an email with
your (i) ID Number, (ii) profile email address, (iii) details of your issue to:
erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za .Do not send any applications to this email address;
should you do so, your applications/ CV will be regarded as lost and will not be
considered. Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-
Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Friday). Hand-delivered/ E-Mailed/ Faxed/ Posted
applications will not be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026. No late applications will be accepted
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed New Z83 form (effective from
01 January 2021) e-Recruitment System automatically generates Z83 immediately
you press apply and generate Z83. Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents upon application but must submit a
fully completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB: Z83 in the e-
recruitment system is currently not signable; so, applicants who submitted
applications via the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for an unsigned
Z83 instead will be requested to sign on/or before the interview day. View the list
198
of the positions you applied for on “My Job Applications” and do note that the
system Z83 does not reflect work experience and qualifications, however, every
detail of your information does reflect to the Recruitment team. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, and other
relevant documents (like a copy of Permanent Resident Permit for Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Holders to HR on or before the interview date.
Failure to submit all the required documents will disqualify the application.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been
contacted within six (6) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship
verification, financial/asset record check, qualification/ study verification and
previous employment verification). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3)
SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive
capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity.
Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation period of twelve 12/24
months. It is the objective to address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action
Measures in line with the Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable
representation across race and gender. The EE targets of the recruiting
Department will be adhered to although the applications are welcome from all racial
groups. The Recruiting Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw
the advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with Disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications). Misrepresentation in the application documents
will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the
candidate has already been appointed. SMS pre-entry certificate (Nyukela) must
be submitted prior appointment. Full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/345 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION ORNITHOLOGIST REF: DSRAC 01/06/2026
SALARY : R791 604 – R849 525per annum (OSD) (An all-inclusive remuneration)
CENTRE : EL Museum (EL)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate and currently registered for a M. Sc. Degree in Natural
Science with a minimum of three (3) years relevant experience in a natural science
environment. An M. Sc. or PhD will be considered an added advantage.
Registration with the South African Council of Natural Scientific Professionals
(SACNASP) as a professional Natural Scientist, or proof of intention to register with
SACNASP. Knowledge of public service regulations, legislations/ policies/
prescripts and procedures, and of National Environmental Management:
Biodiversity Act. Knowledge of collection management standards for natural
science museums. Knowledge of natural science, Ornithology, in particular.
Understanding of the scientific method. Computer knowledge including database
and MSOffice packages. Programme and project management. Communication
skills. Report writing skills. People management skills. Customer and client-
orientated approach. A valid driving licence.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures for the
Ornithology Collection. Identify gaps and develop appropriate interventions.
Monitor and evaluate programme performance. Develop working relations with a
diverse client base. Create public awareness of the science system. Provide
scientific data, information and advice as requested. Review scientific publications.
Gather and interpret data, perform scientific analyses, evaluate results and
disseminate information. Apply appropriate scientific models to generate
information and knowledge. Formulate proposals and compile reports. Continuous
professional development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Literature studies to improve expertise. Present research findings through
exhibitions, educational programmes and publications. Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on science-related matters. Mentor, train and develop candidate
scientists and others to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound
scientific principles and code of practice.
ENQURIES : MS. G. Morcom Tel No: 043 743 0686 – East London Museum (EL)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. This post has been re-
advertised. Those who have already applied, need not reapply.
199
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted via hand delivery/courier or email to the:
Frere Tertiary Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Frere
Hospital, Amalinda Main Road, East London, 5200 Enquiries: Ms N Mthitshana Tel
no: 043 709 2487/2532
Livingstone Tertiary Hospital - Post to: Recruitment & Selection Section, Private
Bag x, Korsten, Gqeberha, 6014 or Hand deliver to Nurses Home, 2nd Floor,
Standford Road, and Korsten, Gqeberha, 6001. Enquiries: Ms L Mabanga Tel no
041 405 2348
Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital, Nelson Mandela Drive, Mthatha 5099.
Enquiries: Ms Calaza Tel no: 047 502 4469.
Frontier Regional Hospital – Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Corner Kingsway & Livingstone Road, Frontier Regional Hospital, Queenstown,
5320. Enquiries: Ms P Marongo Tel No. 045 808 4272.
Lilitha College of Nursing - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Room 43, 2nd floor, Human Resource Office, Lilitha College of Nursing, East
London 5200. Enquiries: Ms P Mene 043 700 9717/26.
Mthatha Pharmaceutical Depot – Hand deliver/courier to: HR Office, Mthatha
Pharmaceutical Depot (Next to Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital), Mthatha
5099. Enquiries: Mr M Diko Tel no 047 531 1076/047 532 2779.
Cecilia Makhiwane Regional Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human
Resource Office, Cecilia Makiwane Hospital 4 Billie Road, Mdantsane, East
London, 5219. Enquiries: Ms N. Matshaya Tel no 043 708 2121
Komani Psychiatric Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
1833 National Road, Komani Psychiatric Hospital, Queenstown 5320: Enquiries:
Mrs N Mzola Tel no 045 858 8400.
Fort England Psychiatric Hospital – Hand delivery/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Fort England Psychiatric Hospital, York Street, Grahamstown, 6140.
Enquiries: Ms X Nazo Tel no 046 602 2300.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026
NOTE : Applications must be posted on the new Z83 Form, a comprehensive CV, indicating
three reference persons: Name and Contact Numbers, A relationship with
reference. Applicants are only required to submit a Z83 form and a comprehensive
CV. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for a post will be required to submit
certified documents (copies of Qualification(s) inclusive of Matric certificate,
Identity document, Proof of registration, proof of citizenship if not RSA citizen) on
or before the day of the interview following communication from HR. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Applicants must note that further Personnel Suitability
checks will be conducted on short-listed candidates and that their appointment is
subject to the outcome of these checks which include security clearance, security
vetting, qualification verification and criminal record checks. Reference checks will
be done on nominated candidate(s). If you have not been contacted by the
Department of Health within three (3) months of the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. We thank all
applicants for their interest. People with disabilities are encouraged to apply for
these posts.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/346 : HEAD CLINICAL DEPARTMENT (SURGERY) REF NO: ECHEALTH/HCD-
SUR/ARP/FTH/NTSG/01/06/2026
SALARY : R2 704 842 – R2 870 823 per annum (OSD) – (All-inclusive remuneration package)
- basic salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be
structured according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa as a Medical Specialist. A minimum of 3 years’ appropriate
experience after registration experience with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Surgery. Outstanding clinical skills in the field preferably in the public service
environment. Ability and practical experience to set up and provide training
program for undergraduate and postgraduates. Candidates with published
research will be an added advantage. Ability to work as a team. Knowledge of
relevant health & labour legislation. Proven leadership skills.
DUTIES : The Head of Department (HOD) is responsible for leading and managing teaching
and learning, research, community engagement and administrative duties. Serve
in various faculty and campus committees and chair the Departmental Board.
Promotion of quality education, research and community engagement and the
200
provision of academic and administrative leadership within the department.
Responsibilities also include the departmental PQM, quality assurance, risk
management, change management, human resources management and financial
and budgeting responsibilities. Service delivery, teaching and training of under and
post graduate students. Reduce the backlog in drainage areas. Develop
outreaches and in reach programs to the whole service platform. Develop and
conduct daily academic programs. Provide strategic leadership in the respective
clinical department. Oversee and manage quality improvement activities including
clinical audit, data management, monitoring and evaluation, and regular reporting
on key indicators related; manage and support staff and participate in departmental
Functional Business Unit activities. Leadership of research activities in the
Department. Participate in outreach activities and/ or support of District Hospitals.
Participate in the on-going provision of undergraduate and post graduate
training/teaching. Manage staff in the department. Manage Performance and
Development (PMDS) and perform quarterly reviews of sub-ordinates. Participate
in the ongoing provision of under-graduate and post-graduate teaching.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel no: 043 709 2487/2532.
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to:
Noluthando.Mthitshana@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/347 : SENIOR MANAGER: MEDICAL SERVICES REF NO.
ECHEALTH/SMMS/LVH/NTSG/01/06/2026
SALARY : R1 899 186 – R2 301 186 per annum (OSD) – (All-inclusive remuneration package)
- basic salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be
structured according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner. Registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: A minimum of 3 years of appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner. Competencies: Appropriate and proven
managerial experience in a Health Care environment, including leadership,
strategic and operational skills, to enable the practical implementation of the
departmental vision. Specific Knowledge and proven managerial experience
regarding management of Clinical Services; Human Resource Management,
Financial Resource Management and Infrastructure which will enable the effective
planning of clinical services according to available corporate resources. Extensive
knowledge of National, Provincial, and institutional health delivery systems,
policies and laws which govern resource allocations, as well as Medico-Legal
matters. Proven skills in quality improvement strategies and implementation
thereof. Excellent communication (written and verbal) and conflict management
skills. Proven computer literacy with proficiency in (i.e. MS Word, Excel and
PowerPoint) with the ability to understand and analyse statistical and financial
information in order to plan clinical services. A valid driver’s licence,
DUTIES : Overall strategic and operational management of clinical services within the given
clinical and corporate governance frameworks. Participate in strategies to
strengthen relationships in the regional and district health care system to ensure
equity of access to specialized care within the drainage system. Ensure that the
highest standards of patient care are maintained and determine policies and
practices regarding admission, treatment, and discharge of patients with available
resources. Effective, efficient, and sustainable human resource management and
planning within relevant general specialist and highly specialized clinical
departments. Continuous improvement of technical quality, internal efficiency,
effectiveness and appropriateness of relevant FBUs, i.e. ensuring a well-
functioning clinical Centre within available human and financial resources. Special
portfolios/projects, as delegated by the CEO. Ensure the effective, sufficient and
sustainable functioning within the National and Provincial Health policies. Support
HEIs to provide, facilitate and promote training, teaching and research, members
of the hospital management and the Faculty of Health Sciences of the Universities
of Walter Sisulu and Nelson Mandela. Ensure and provide a platform for teaching,
training, development, and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel no 041 405 2348
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to: Noms.Tsotsobe@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/348 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT (PSYCHIATRY) REF NO: ECHEALTH/HCD-
PSY/ARP/FEPH/NTSG/01/06/2026
SALARY : R2 168 145 – R2 301 186 per annum (OSD) – (All-inclusive remuneration package)
- basic salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be
structured according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Fort England Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa as a Medical Specialist. A minimum of 3 years’ appropriate
experience after registration experience with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
201
psychiatry. Knowledge, skills and competencies: Clinical, administration and
management’s abilities. Experience and knowledge of mental health services.
Knowledge of teaching and training health care professionals in mental health
leadership communication and organizational skills, program planning,
implementing and evaluation, knowledge and ability to develop programs focused
on psychosocial rehabilitation and management of substance abuse commodity
with mental illness. Management of resources. Experience in providing expert
opinion in Psychiatry. Clinical research skills and computer literacy. Outstanding
clinical skills in the field preferably in the public service environment. Ability and
practical experience to set up and provide training program for undergraduate and
postgraduates. Candidates with published research will be an added advantage.
Ability to work as a team. Knowledge of relevant health & labour legislation. Proven
leadership skills. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide specialist psychiatric care, assessment and evaluations of mental
healthcare users (MHCU’s) both in institution and community where indicated.
Provide academic teaching and clinical training to the students and trainees.
Provide specialist advice guidance and training to the clinical paramedical and
management staff both within the tertiary services and as part of outreach areas.
Participate in development guidelines, protocols and referral pathways for the
management of MHCU’s. Ensure the effective, efficient and economical use of
allocated resources inclusive of human resources stimulate, participate in and
supervise research. Ensure all relevant policies and clinical protocols are in place.
Participate in all hospital committees. Ensure that clinical audits are performed.
Administration: Perform administrative tasks related to patient management and
student training. Address patient complaints. Attend scheduled meetings with
hospital management. Contribute to electronic databases for research purposes.
Coordinate duty lists and staff allocations in the department. Ensure recruitment
and retention of staff in the department. Liaise with other departments and with
other hospitals, district mental health services where required. Academic:
Provision of teaching and learning to ensure that both under- and post graduate
students are taught the required skills and are provided with opportunities to learn
in a safe environment. Assist in coordination of academic programs. Conduct
appropriate research: Develop own interest and publish appropriately. Support
post-graduate students with research projects. Be willing to undergo continuous
training and development programs. Attend meetings and training as approved by
supervisor. Comply with the Performance Management and Development System
(Contracting, reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Ms X Nazo Tel no 046 602 2300.
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to: Xolelwa.Nazo@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/349 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (PSYCHIARTY) REF NO: ECHEALTH/MS-
PSY/FEPH/ARP/NTSG/01/06/2026
SALARY : R1 395 528 – R 2 301 186 per annum (OSD)
Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per annum (OSD)
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per annum (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per annum (OSD) All-inclusive remuneration
package) - basic salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package
will be structured according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Fort England Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical Specialist in psychiatry. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in psychiatry. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognized foreign Health Professions Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in psychiatry. Sound knowledge of clinical
concept within the department of Psychiatry. Knowledge, skills and competencies:
Good clinical skills to carry out advance clinical services, Research and
organizational ability, Supervisory and teaching skills. Ability to work in a team.
Ability to diagnose and manage most common psychiatry conditions, including
emergencies. Leadership, managerial and supervisory skills. Sound knowledge of
the legislative framework and protocols that govern Mental Health. The ability to
teach, train, do research and supervise research for academic degree purposes.
Willingness to teach and train undergraduate and postgraduate students and other
health care workers. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Management of psychiatry at the hospital in the provision of clinical care to mental
health care users, teaching of under- and post-graduate students. Manage own
service delivery. Clinical service delivery: evaluation, management, care, treatment
and rehabilitation of mental health care users in an acute psychiatric unit in a
202
general hospital setting as well as outreach services where appropriate. Ensure
patient care is promoted to meet the National Core Standards for health, Batho
Pele Principles and the Mental Health Care Act, 17 of 2002, and other relevant
medico-legal regulations, aligning the needs of the population served with facilities
in the hospital. Supervision of a multi-disciplinary group of mental health care
providers and other relevant staff members. Manage and run the Specialist
Psychiatry Outpatients Clinic. Lead the multi-disciplinary ward rounds for in-
patients. Consultations for patients outside the psychiatry unit. Review and audit
patients’ medical records. Administration: Perform administrative tasks related to
patient management and student training. Address patient complaints. Attend
scheduled meetings with hospital management. Contribute to electronic databases
for research purposes. Coordinate duty lists and staff allocations in the department.
Ensure recruitment and retention of staff in the department. Liaise with other
departments and with other hospitals, district mental health services where
required. Academic: Provision of teaching and learning to ensure that both under-
and post graduate students are taught the required skills and are provided with
opportunities to learn in a safe environment. Assist in coordination of academic
programs. Conduct appropriate research: Develop own interest and publish
appropriately. Support post-graduate students with research projects. Be willing to
undergo continuous training and development programs. Attend meetings and
training as approved by supervisor. Comply with the Performance Management
and Development System (Contracting, reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Ms X Nazo Tel no 046 602 2300.
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to: Xolelwa.Nazo@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/350 : DEPUTY MANAGER: PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES REF NO;
ECHEALTH/DPM/MTD/APL/01/06/2026
SALARY : R1 297 089 – R1395 528 per annum (OSD) All-inclusive remuneration package) -
basic salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be
structured according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Mthatha Pharmaceutical Depot
REQUIREMENTS : B.Pharm or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African
Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a pharmacist. A minimum of 7 years appropriate
experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the SAPC of which three (3)
years of experience as a Pharmacist Supervisor/Assistant Manager (or performing
the functions) in the pharmaceutical environment. Registration with the SAPC as a
Pharmacist A good understanding of relevant legislation. National Drug Policy, the
essential Drugs programme, Public finance Management Act (PFMA), Medicines
and related Substances Act and Pharmacy Act. Sound leadership, analytic and
computer proficiency Good warehousing practice and pharmacy practice.
Extensive knowledge of pharmaceutical services’ approaches. Sound knowledge
and understanding of the mandate of the Medical supplies Depot. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative prescripts governing the public service. Knowledge
and skilled in managing quality improvement programmes. Must be achievement-
driven and self-motivated. Be available to be a responsible pharmacist when
required. Good verbal, written communication and presentation skills. Good in
team building and problem solving. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : to perform the duties of the warehouse manager in accordance with the Pharmacy
Act, GPP and GWP. Ensure compliance of the warehouse to pharmacy and other
relevant legislation. Ensure proper storage of medicines at the depot and
distribution to healthcare institutions and facilities. Strengthen stakeholder and
warehouse staff engagement to improve performance and service delivery.
Facilitate the development and maintenance of internal control procedures to
mitigate identified risks in the warehouse. Ensure the effective and efficient use of
warehouse resources. Represent pharmaceutical services at relevant meetings
and serve on various committees and participate in relevant forums in forums in
depot. Coordinate training programmes for pharmacy assistants. Pharmacist
interns and other support personnel. Develop protocols, standard operating
procedures and guidelines for efficient and cost-effective pharmaceutical service.
Supervise pharmacists and pharmacist assistants. Maintain discipline and deal
with grievances and labour relations systems. Compiling report for submission to
warehouse management on monthly and quarterly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Diko Tel no 047 532 5536
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to: Mzimasi.Diko@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/351 : MANAGER NURSING LEVEL 3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/MAN_NL3/FTH/APL/01/06/2026
SALARY : R1 201 302 – R1 353 267 per annum, (OSD) – (All-inclusive remuneration
package) - basic salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package
will be structured according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
203
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice
425 (i.e. diploma/ degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate qualification
in Nursing Education and/or Nursing Management will be added advantage.
Current paid-up registration with SANC. A minimum of 10 years appropriate/
recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with
the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must
be appropriate/ recognisable experience at management level. Valid Code B/EB
driver’s license. Must be computer literate and may be required to demonstrate
computer skills. Complex report writing skills essential.
DUTIES : To lead, manage and provide strategic Nursing leadership and direction to Nursing
Services in the institution. Provide professional, technical and management
support for the provision of quality patient care through management of nursing
care programs. Advocate the promotion of nursing ethos and professionalism.
Develop and monitor the implementation of policies, programs, regulations,
practices, protocol/ procedures and standards pertaining to nursing care.
Establish, maintain and participate in interprofessional multi-disciplinary team for
effective and efficient health care. Manage and monitor the utilization of Human
Resources and Finances in accordance with relevant directives and prescripts.
Maintain and manage PMDS of subordinates. Collaborate with other team
members in the hospital to identify actual and potential risks. Support nursing and
health care research to improve the quality of care. Monitor compliance to Quality
Assurance, Infection Prevention and Control, Occupational health and Safety
programs within the institution. Participate in Hospital Executive decision-making
body.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel no: 043 709 2487/2532.
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to:
Noluthando.Mthitshana@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/352 : ASSISTANT MANAGER: MEDICAL PHYSICS REF NO. ECHEALTH/ASM-
MP/ARP/NMAH/NTSG-ON/01/06/2026
SALARY : R1 169 499 – R1 333 824 per annum (OSD) – (All-inclusive remuneration package)
- basic salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be
structured according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification (Diploma/Degree in Medical Physics) that allows for
registration with HPCSA as a Medical Physicist. Registration with HPCSA as a
Medical Physicist. Experience: A minimum of 3 years’ appropriate supervisory
experience after registration as Medical Physicist. Candidate must be able to
manage and supervise a subsection of the department with thorough knowledge
of radiographic techniques, radiation protection, quality assurance PACS and
equipment safety. Ensure strategic planning and possess organizational skills.
Knowledge of Patient Archiving and Communication Systems. Good
administrative, supervisory and managerial skills. Knowledge, skills, and
Competencies required: In-depth knowledge and skills related to medical physics,
Quality assurance processes, tests and regulations associated with radiation
emitting devices primarily in radiology. Sound knowledge of radiotherapy physics
and radiotherapy equipment, dosimetry, treatment planning, and HDR
Brachytherapy. Computer skills and knowledge of software used in radiology
(imaging and dose assessment) and Radiotherapy (Morden RT techniques). Good
technical, administrative, leadership, management, communication, and
interpersonal skills pertaining to profession of Medical Physicist and in relation to
service delivery as well as teaching platform. Research, development and teaching
/training skills. Sound knowledge of regulations pertaining to the Hazardous
Substances Act of 1973 in accordance with the South African Health Products
Regulatory Authority. Experience in radiation medicine equipment management
processes; including needs assessments, procurement processes, specifications,
installation and maintenance. A valid driver’s licence
DUTIES : To coordinate, supervise and manage provision of a comprehensive clinical
medical physics service. commissioning of radiation emitting machinery/devices in
the hospital. Knowledge of general management and administrative skills,
including budgeting, good planning, organisational and presentation skills.
Excellent communication skills (verbal, written, conflict management) and
interpersonal skills. Quality Assurance Programme and Management of ionising
and non-ionising radiation equipment at Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital.
Participate in the teaching, training and research programs within NMAH. Oversee
the development and implementation of policies, protocols and Standard Operating
Procedures. Oversee compliance of equipment contracts, service level
agreements and terms of references with vendors and participating in middle
management and delegated management tasks i.e. Record keeping, reporting,
statistics collation, budget controls, asset management, staff supervision and
management, performance management and development system etc. Participate
in the Radiation protection programme and training at NMAH. Work closely with
204
Medical Physicists, Radiologists and Medicine Physicians and Radiographers.
Provide support in all aspects of safe and effective radiology and nuclear medicine
clinical procedures, with the consideration of ethical aspects. Responsible for QA
including dosimetry in radiology and nuclear medicine. Ensure all radiation
protection requirements are met and good practices are followed. Maintain own
Continuing Professional Development (CPD) in accordance with professional
standards. ensure compliance with relevant professional bodies and Office of the
Health standard, HPCSA, SAHPRA and Hospital realization quality assurance
programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel no: 047 502 4469.
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/353 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING REF NO:
ECHEALTH/DMN/FROH/APL//01/06/2026
SALARY : R1 069 215 - R 1 219 323 per annum (OSD) (An all-inclusive package)- basic
salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be structured
according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Frontier Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification Diploma/Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse General. Minimum of 9
years after registration as a Professional Nurse, at least 4 years’ appropriate
recognizable experience must be at Management Level. Demonstrate advanced
understanding and application of Nursing legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices. Knowledge of PFMA, HR Management. Knowledge of Public
Sector Legislation and relevant Prescript/Regulation, Batho Pele Principles and
patient Right Charter. Strong leadership, good interpersonal relations, effective
problem solving, management and decision-making skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills are essential requirements. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : To manage and provide strategic Nursing leadership and direction to the Nursing
Services. Plan and monitor the objectives of the specialized unit in line with the
strategic plan of the institution and Department. Coordinate and maintain
conducive/constructive working relationships with Nursing and other stakeholders.
Ensure compliance with professional and ethical practice. Monitor and ensure
nursing care is practiced in accordance with the statutory law, policies and
procedures governing the Nursing Profession, Labour and Health Care. Effective
management and utilization of Human and Material Resources. Ensure effective
implementation of PMDS. Monitor compliance to Quality Assurance and Infection
Control and Occupational Health and Safety standards and National Core
Standards Compliance. Ensure efficient and effective execution of administration
functions of the Nursing unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Marongo Tel No. 045 808 4272.
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Patricia.Marongo@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/354 : VICE PRINICPAL OF NURSING COLLEGE PN-D5 : NURSING EDUCATION
REF NO: ECHEALTH/VCP_NEDU/LCN/ES/01/06/2026
SALARY : R1 069 215 - R1 1 219 323 per annum (OSD) – (All-inclusive remuneration
package) (basic salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package
will be structured according to Middle Management Service guidelines
CENTRE : Lilitha College of Nursing, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, NQF Level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Nursing, NQF
Level 8 as recognised by SAQA in Education and Management and NQF Level 9
as recognised by SAQA in Health Sciences with 5 years as a Middle Management.
A candidate who possesses a PhD qualification will have an added advantage. A
minimum of 11 years appropriate/ recognizable nursing experience after
registration as a Professional nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 7
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognizable experience
in Nursing Education after obtaining the 1 year Post Basic Qualification. Good
understanding and experience of both classroom and clinical teaching including
the current National Health priorities (RPHC) and community Based Education.
Ability to identity gaps in curriculum implementation, research, patient-centred
approaches and collaboration with health sector partner. Excellent communication,
interpersonal and leadership skill. Proficient is Microsoft Office Applications. A valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To assist the principal in providing strategic direction and development of the
college curriculum and all academic operations of the college ensuring that the
institution has the current and future capacity and capability to deliver the approved
academic programmes. Leading and managing academic personnel in the college
ensuring effective teaching and learning platform in the college. Accounting to the
efficiency and effectiveness of college academic performance including
assessment processes. Attendance of full governance activities and meetings,
teaching, learning and the development of appropriate methodologies for inclusive
and personalised learning. Ensure that strategies for student retention and
205
achievement are in place and implemented consistently and effectively, achieving
higher standards year on year. Facilitate effective and efficient implementation of
College Policies in all disciplines. Ensure compliance to policies and procedures
Monitor compliance to set standard as laid down by SANC, CHE and SAQA.
Ensure continuous staff capacity building to promote academic excellence.
Exercise supervision and support to academic staff. Manage various submission
in relation to student academic matters, including recruitment, registration and
SANC records. Facilitate a research culture for both academics and students to
promote evidence-based teaching and learning. Collaboration with other academic
institutions to enhance academic business operation. Monitoring and evaluation of
the academic programs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mene Tel No: 043 700 9717/26.
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/355 : MEDICAL PHYSICIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO.
ECHEALTH/MEDP/NMAH/ARP/NTSG/01/06/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R844 128 – R935 049 per annum (OSD)
Grade 2: R953 094 - R1 055 292 per annum (OSD)
Grade 3: R1 087 263 - R1 22 843 per annum (OSD) (All-inclusive remuneration
package) - basic salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package
will be structured according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Physicist. Registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Physicist. Registration with HPCSA as a Medical Physicist.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Physicist.
Grade 2: 8 years appropriate experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Physicist. Grade 3: 16 years appropriate after registration with the HPCSA
as a Medical Physicist. Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines. Be a
highly motivated and methodical individual who pays attention to detail with
exceptional standards for accuracy. Capable of using initiative for problem solving,
recognizing the need for action, considering possible risks and taking responsibility
for results. Good communication, interpersonal relationships, research,
development and teaching skills. Knowledge of statutory regulations regarding the
medical use of ionizing radiation, particularly concerning diagnostic radiology.
Potential to develop management skills. Skills pertaining to the scope of the
profession of medical physicists. Understand the physics of radiotherapy-,
diagnostic X-ray and nuclear medicine equipment, computers and software; and
have a thorough knowledge of diagnostic radiology physics.
DUTIES : Routine Medical Physics service delivery activities in Radiotherapy, Nuclear
Medicine and Diagnostic Radiology Assisting with departmental administration.
Assistance with equipment tender preparation, evaluation and commissioning.
Responsibility for the management of the dosimetry, quality assurance and
radiation protection functions of Medical Physics in the Department of Diagnostic
Radiology, with support to Radiation Oncology. External Coordination with other
institutions in the province or national on Medical Physics activities. Attending and
presenting at meetings, workshops and CPD activities. Operation, monitoring of
maintenance, record keeping and care of all equipment and accessories. Design
and implementation of new protocols. Teaching and training skills, radiation
protection and handling, transporting and disposal of radioactive materials. Ability
to solve radiotherapy physics problems. Performance of quality control procedures
in radiotherapy. Provide medical physics support for radiation oncology treatment
unit including Sound knowledge of radiotherapy dosimetry equipment, treatment
planning acceptance testing, commissioning, calibration and quality assurance.
Provide medical physics support in radiation oncology treatment planning.
Participating in the implementation of new treatment techniques. Provide radiation
protection services and ensure regulatory compliance for the institution.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel no: 047 502 4469
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/356 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING SPECIALITY (ONCOLOGY) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/AMN-ONC/APL/01/06/2026
SALARY : R785 568 – R884 940 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification
that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC
in Oncology Nursing Science. Registration with SANC as Professional Nurse. A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 6
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience
in the specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the
206
relevant specialty. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/ recognisable experience at management level. Ability to work in a
multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of PFMA, Batho Pele Principles, Patient Rights
Charter and other relevant legal framework, Labour Relations and Public Service
Acts. Managerial and communication (both written and verbal), report writing and
problem-solving skills. Knowledge of six key priority areas, ability to work under
pressure. A valid driver’s license. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Demonstrate in in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts as well as understanding
of the legislative’s framework governing Public Service. Ensure that the clinical
nursing practice by the team is rendered in accordance with the scope of practice
and nursing standards as determined by the relevant health facility. Promote
quality of nursing care as directed by professional scope of practice and standards
determined by the health facility. Demonstrate a basic understanding of HR and
Financial policies and practices. Demonstrate in depth understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how it expects a
service delivery. Demonstrate knowledge of Neonatal Care Standards and in
reporting and monitoring of indicators. Ensure that the environment complies with
Health and Safety Act and Infection Prevention and Control Policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel no: 043 709 2487/2532.
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to:
Noluthando.Mthitshana@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/357 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING SPECIALITY (INTENSIVE CARE UNIT) REF
NO: ECHEALTH/AMN-ICU/FRH/APL/01/06/2026
SALARY : R785 568 – R884 940 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification
that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC
in Intensive Nursing Science. Registration with SANC as Professional Nurse. A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 6
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience
in the specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the
relevant specialty. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/ recognisable experience at management level. Ability to work in a
multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of PFMA, Batho Pele Principles, Patient Rights
Charter and other relevant legal framework, Labour Relations and Public Service
Acts. Managerial and communication (both written and verbal), report writing and
problem-solving skills. Knowledge of six key priority areas, ability to work under
pressure. A valid driver’s license. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Demonstrate in in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts as well as understanding
of the legislative’s framework governing Public Service. Ensure that the clinical
nursing practice by the team is rendered in accordance with the scope of practice
and nursing standards as determined by the relevant health facility. Promote
quality of nursing care as directed by professional scope of practice and standards
determined by the health facility. Demonstrate a basic understanding of HR and
Financial policies and practices. Demonstrate in depth understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how it expects a
service delivery. Demonstrate knowledge of Neonatal Care Standards and in
reporting and monitoring of indicators. Ensure that the environment complies with
Health and Safety Act and Infection Prevention and Control Policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel no: 043 709 2487/2532.
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to:
Noluthando.Mthitshana@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/358 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING SPECIALITY (PSYCHIATRY) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/AMN-ICU/KPH/APL/01/06/2026
SALARY : R785 568 – R884 940 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Komani Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification
that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC
in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science. Registration with SANC as Professional
Nurse. A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
6 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable
experience in the specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification in the relevant specialty. At least 3 years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience at management level. Ability
to work in a multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of PFMA, Batho Pele Principles,
Patient Rights Charter and other relevant legal framework, Labour Relations and
207
Public Service Acts. Managerial and communication (both written and verbal),
report writing and problem-solving skills. Knowledge of six key priority areas, ability
to work under pressure. A valid driver’s license. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Demonstrate in in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts as well as understanding
of the legislative’s framework governing Public Service. Ensure that the clinical
nursing practice by the team is rendered in accordance with the scope of practice
and nursing standards as determined by the relevant health facility. Promote
quality of nursing care as directed by professional scope of practice and standards
determined by the health facility. Demonstrate a basic understanding of HR and
Financial policies and practices. Demonstrate in depth understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how it expects a
service delivery. Demonstrate knowledge of Neonatal Care Standards and in
reporting and monitoring of indicators. Ensure that the environment complies with
Health and Safety Act and Infection Prevention and Control Policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs N Mzola Tel no 045 858 8400.
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Nombulelo.Mzola@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/359 : REGISTERED COUNSELLOR REF NO.
ECHEALTH/RC/NMAH/ARP/NHI/01/06/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R741 102 – R821 070 per annum (OSD)
Grade 2: R844 128 – R935 049 per annum (OSD)
Grade 3: R953 094 – R1 055 292 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Honours Degree in Psychology/4 years Bachelor’s degree in Psychology or any
other appropriate qualification that allows registration with Health Profession
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Registered Counsellor. Registration with
HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade 1: none after registration with HPCSA.
Grade 2: A minimum of 8-years appropriate experience after registration with
HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade 3: A minimum of 16 years’ appropriate
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Providing psycho – education, conducting psychological and preventative
interventions that focus on the promotion and enhancement of psychosocial
wellbeing for individuals, families, groups and communities. Performing
psychological screening, basic assessment and psychological interventions with
individuals and groups for the purpose of mental health preliminary screening in
order to refer appropriately. Design, implement and monitor developmental
programmes appropriate for all systems levels. Provide counselling in conjunction
with interdisciplinary support teams. Report writing and providing feedback to
clients on interventions. Providing training and promotion of primary psychosocial
wellbeing. Referral to appropriate professionals or other appropriate resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel no: 047 502 4469
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/360 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (NURSING DEVELOPMENT) REF NO: REF
NO: ECHEALTH/AMN-ND/FRONTH/ARP/SHRTD/01/06/2026
SALARY : R720 819 - R846 282 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Frontier Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 Qualification (Diploma/Degree) in Nursing or equivalent that allows
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. A minimum of 8 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable
experience at management level. Post Basic/Graduate qualification in Nursing
Education with a duration of at least one (1) year. Current registration SANC
receipt. Diploma in Health Services Management and Computer literacy will be an
added advantage. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, the Public Service
Act, 1994 (Act 103 of 1994) and other human resources prescripts. Nursing Act,
OHS Act, Patient Right Charter, Batho Pele Principles, Labour Relations Act.
Knowledge of PFMA, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain
Management processes and other financial Policies and prescripts. Budgeting and
financial management. Knowledge of Departmental policies, processes and
procedures, Skills Development Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Workplace
Based Learning Regulations, National Qualification Framework, Batho Pele
Principles. Good communication skills with information management and the ability
to work well under pressure. Applied strategic leadership and capability. Customer
orientation and client satisfaction. Programme and project management
knowledge. Facilitation and presentation skills. Report writing skills. Interpersonal
skills including conflict management and counselling. A valid driver’s licence.
Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Execute all duties and functions with proficiency, in support of the aims and
strategic objectives of the department. Provide strategic leadership for clinical
208
teaching and learning programmes. Participate in an integrated, multidisciplinary
approach to strategic planning together with other members of the health care
team. Champion CPD and in-service training programmes. Provide advice and
guidance to nursing staff and health professionals so that service delivery meets
provincial and national standards and norms. Represent the training and
development unit at provincial and national level as and when required. Support
and monitor health science trainees in the platform to achieve expected learning
outcomes for production of safe practitioners. Liaise with Institutions of Higher
learning for alignment of academic programmes with clinical skills and maintain
accreditation status of the facility. Monitor and evaluate nursing care education
programmes including clinical skills to ensure the achievement of competent nurse
practitioners. Initiate, promote and support appropriate human resource and career
development programmes for staff. Collaborate proactively with relevant statutory
bodies and professional organisations on nurse education and training. Maintain
the proper use and control of training equipment. Plan the budget and manage the
expenditure in area of responsibility, through responsible implementation of
policies, practices and decisions to achieve objectives. Engage in effective
communication and interactions between departments, and various disciplines in
the sector. Assist with collection of information and data to submit monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Marongo Tel No. 045 808 4272.
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Patricia.Marongo@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/361 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (NURSING DEVELOPMENT) REF NO: REF
NO: ECHEALTH/AMN-ND/NMAH/ARP/SHRTD/01/06/2026
SALARY : R720 819 - R846 282 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 Qualification (Diploma/Degree) in Nursing or equivalent that allows
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. A minimum of 8 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable
experience at management level. Post Basic/Graduate qualification in Nursing
Education with a duration of at least one (1) year. Current registration SANC
receipt. Diploma in Health Services Management and Computer literacy will be an
added advantage. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, the Public Service
Act, 1994 (Act 103 of 1994) and other human resources prescripts. Nursing Act,
OHS Act, Patient Right Charter, Batho Pele Principles, Labour Relations Act.
Knowledge of PFMA, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain
Management processes and other financial Policies and prescripts. Budgeting and
financial management. Knowledge of Departmental policies, processes and
procedures, Skills Development Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Workplace
Based Learning Regulations, National Qualification Framework, Batho Pele
Principles. Good communication skills with information management and the ability
to work well under pressure. Applied strategic leadership and capability. Customer
orientation and client satisfaction. Programme and project management
knowledge. Facilitation and presentation skills. Report writing skills. Interpersonal
skills including conflict management and counselling. A valid driver’s licence.
Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Execute all duties and functions with proficiency, in support of the aims and
strategic objectives of the department. Provide strategic leadership for clinical
teaching and learning programmes. Participate in an integrated, multidisciplinary
approach to strategic planning together with other members of the health care
team. Champion CPD and in-service training programmes. Provide advice and
guidance to nursing staff and health professionals so that service delivery meets
provincial and national standards and norms. Represent the training and
development unit at provincial and national level as and when required. Support
and monitor health science trainees in the platform to achieve expected learning
outcomes for production of safe practitioners. Liaise with Institutions of Higher
learning for alignment of academic programmes with clinical skills and maintain
accreditation status of the facility. Monitor and evaluate nursing care education
programmes including clinical skills to ensure the achievement of competent nurse
practitioners. Initiate, promote and support appropriate human resource and career
development programmes for staff. Collaborate proactively with relevant statutory
bodies and professional organisations on nurse education and training. Maintain
the proper use and control of training equipment. Plan the budget and manage the
expenditure in area of responsibility, through responsible implementation of
policies, practices and decisions to achieve objectives. Engage in effective
communication and interactions between departments, and various disciplines in
the sector. Assist with collection of information and data to submit monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel no: 047 502 4469.
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
209
POST 22/362 : LECTURER - PND1 REF NO. ECHEALTH/LEC/LSK/ES/01/06/2026 (4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 – R581 931 per annum (OSD)
Grade 2: R607 350 – R797 352 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Lilitha Nursing College, Lusikisiki Campus
REQUIREMENTS : R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Post basic qualification
in Nursing Education registered with the SANC. Post Basic qualification in Nursing
Education is a prerequisite. Registration with SANC. A minimum of four (4) years
of appropriate/recognizable experience after registration with SANC in General
Nursing. Ability to teach and function in a multi-discipline team.
DUTIES : Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices. Develop, plan and implement academic programs.
Develop/design, review and evaluate the curriculum. Develop and review training
documents and guidelines. Prepare and present lessons and mentor and
supervise students’ research projects. Participate in the development of college
policy by giving inputs and adhere to prescribed policies and procedures related to
student training. Apply various teaching and learning strategies to reach the
required outcomes. Plan and implement remedial and quality assurance programs.
Draw a schedule for clinical placement and accompaniment and accompany
students in clinical areas. Create clinical learning opportunities and assess
students according to unit/ward procedures. Monitor students’ movement within
the clinical setting and keep records. Serve as a member of various committees
(research and policy-making committee). Attend meetings and workshops.
Participate in career guidance exhibitions (marketing the college to the
community). Conduct and participate in nursing research. Monitor class and clinical
attendance and control and monitor students leave. Supervise students’ research
projects. Counsel students and maintain student’s discipline. Demonstrate
effective communication with students, supervisors and other lecturers, including
report rating and presentation skills when required. Work as part of the education
team to ensure good nurse training. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
students and other persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious
differences. Able to plan and organize own work and manage training programmes
in order to meet training outcomes as determined by the health training facility.
Able to apply computer technology and programmes to enhance he level of
educational programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Hosolo Tel No: 043 700 9728
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/363 : LECTURER - PND1 REF NO. ECHEALTH/LEC/QTNC/ES/01/06/2026 (2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 – R581 931 per annum (OSD)
Grade 2: R607 350 – R797 352 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Lilitha Nursing College, Queenstown Campus
REQUIREMENTS : R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Post basic qualification
in Nursing Education registered with the SANC. Post Basic qualification in Nursing
Education is a prerequisite. Registration with SANC. A minimum of four (4) years
of appropriate/recognizable experience after registration with SANC in General
Nursing. Ability to teach and function in a multi-discipline team.
DUTIES : Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices. Develop, plan and implement academic programs.
Develop/design, review and evaluate the curriculum. Develop and review training
documents and guidelines. Prepare and present lessons and mentor and
supervise students’ research projects. Participate in the development of college
policy by giving inputs and adhere to prescribed policies and procedures related to
student training. Apply various teaching and learning strategies to reach the
required outcomes. Plan and implement remedial and quality assurance programs.
Draw a schedule for clinical placement and accompaniment and accompany
students in clinical areas. Create clinical learning opportunities and assess
students according to unit/ward procedures. Monitor students’ movement within
the clinical setting and keep records. Serve as a member of various committees
(research and policy-making committee). Attend meetings and workshops.
Participate in career guidance exhibitions (marketing the college to the
community). Conduct and participate in nursing research. Monitor class and clinical
attendance and control and monitor students leave. Supervise students’ research
projects. Counsel students and maintain student’s discipline. Demonstrate
effective communication with students, supervisors and other lecturers, including
report writing and presentation skills when required. Work as part of the education
team to ensure good nurse training. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
students and other persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious
differences. Able to plan and organize own work and manage training programmes
in order to meet training outcomes as determined by the health training facility.
Able to apply computer technology and programmes to enhance the level of
210
educational programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Hosolo Tel No: 043 700 9728
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/364 : LECTURER - PND1 REF NO. ECHEALTH/LEC/PEC/ES/01/06/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 – R581 931 per annum (OSD)
Grade 2: R607 350 – R797 352 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Lilitha Nursing College, Port Elizabeth Campus
REQUIREMENTS : R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Post basic qualification
in Nursing Education registered with the SANC. Post Basic qualification in Nursing
Education is a prerequisite. Registration with SANC. A minimum of four (4) years
of appropriate/recognizable experience after registration with SANC in General
Nursing. Ability to teach and function in a multi-discipline team.
DUTIES : Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices. Develop, plan and implement academic programs.
Develop/design, review and evaluate the curriculum. Develop and review training
documents and guidelines. Prepare and present lessons and mentor and
supervise students’ research projects. Participate in the development of college
policy by giving inputs and adhere to prescribed policies and procedures related to
student training. Apply various teaching and learning strategies to reach the
required outcomes. Plan and implement remedial and quality assurance programs.
Draw a schedule for clinical placement and accompaniment and accompany
students in clinical areas. Create clinical learning opportunities and assess
students according to unit/ward procedures. Monitor students’ movement within
the clinical setting and keep records. Serve as a member of various committees
(research and policy-making committee). Attend meetings and workshops.
Participate in career guidance exhibitions (marketing the college to the
community). Conduct and participate in nursing research. Monitor class and clinical
attendance and control and monitor students leave. Supervise students’ research
projects. Counsel students and maintain student’s discipline. Demonstrate
effective communication with students, supervisors and other lecturers, including
report writing and presentation skills when required. Work as part of the education
team to ensure good nurse training. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
students and other persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious
differences. Able to plan and organize own work and manage training programmes
in order to meet training outcomes as determined by the health training facility.
Able to apply computer technology and programmes to enhance the level of
educational programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Hosolo Tel No: 043 700 9728
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/365 : MEDICAL BIOLOGICAL SCIENCIST GRADE 1-3 REF NO.
ECHEALTH/MEDBS/NMAH/ARP/NTSG/01/06/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 – R472 359 per annum (OSD)
Grade 2: R482 499 – R550 389 per annum (OSD)
Grade 3: R564 822 – R683 808 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Biological Scientist (Reproductive
Biology/Clinical Embryology). Registration with HPCSA as a Medical Biological
Scientist (Reproductive Biology/Clinical Embryology). Grade 1: None after
registration with HPCSA as Medical Biological Scientist (Reproductive
Biology/Clinical Embryology) in respect of RSA-qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Biological
Scientist (Reproductive Biology/Clinical Embryology) in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required
in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Biological Scientist (Reproductive
Biology/Clinical Embryology) in respect of RSA-qualified employees. A Minimum
of 11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Biological Scientist (Reproductive Biology/Clinical Embryology) in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Biological Scientist
(Reproductive Biology/Clinical Embryology) in respect of RSA-qualified
employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Biological Scientist (Reproductive Biology/Clinical Embryology)
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. The ideal candidate must have
clinical experience in embryology and andrology, with proficiency in advanced
laboratory techniques used in assisted reproductive technology (ART). Strong
211
proficiency in ICSI, micromanipulation, and vitrification techniques. Experience
with sperm preparation techniques for ART procedures (IUI, IVF, ICSI). Thorough
knowledge of quality control and laboratory accreditation standards. Excellent
problem-solving skills and attention to detail. Ability to work effectively in a high-
pressure clinical environment. Commitment to continuous professional
development and research in reproductive biology.
DUTIES : Perform comprehensive andrology and embryology procedures in a clinical ART
setting. Conduct intracytoplasmic sperm injections (ICSI) and other
micromanipulation techniques with precision. Assess and process semen samples,
including routine semen analysis and advanced sperm function tests. Perform
oocyte retrieval preparation, fertilization assessment, and embryo culture following
laboratory protocols. Conduct cryopreservation of gametes and embryos using
vitrification techniques, ensuring high survival rates post-thaw. Perform embryo
biopsy for preimplantation genetic testing (PGT) when required. Maintain quality
control and laboratory compliance with national and international ART regulations.
Collaborate with clinicians and other ART specialists to optimize patient outcomes.
Contribute to training, research, and development initiatives in reproductive
biology.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel no: 047 502 4469.
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/366 : CHIEF SPEECH AND AUDIOLOGIST (COORDINATOR) GRADE 1-3 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/CSPT-C/ARP/SHRTD/01/06/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 - R472 389 per annum (OSD)
Grade 2: R482 499 - R550 389 per annum (OSD)
Grade 3: R564 822 - R683 808 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Cecilia Makiwane Regional Hospital
REQUIRMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist and
Audiologist. Registration with a professional council: registration with the health
professions council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a speech therapist or speech
therapist and audiologist an independent practitioner. Proof of current renewal of
practice license with HPCSA as a speech therapist or speech therapist and
audiologist (dual registration) independent practice. Minimum 3 years’ experience
working as a Speech Therapist or Speech Therapist & Audiologist after registering
with HPCSA. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Supervisory experience and
additional qualifications in the relevant field will be an added advantage. Computer
literate, good communication skills, interpersonal skills. Knowledge in relevant
policies, protocols and guidelines. Must be Proactive, innovative and a team player.
Team leadership skills.
DUTIES : Provision of effective and comprehensive assessment and treatment to all patients
referred to speech therapy and audiology. Assess, plan and implement treatment
methods within the management of all speech therapy and audiology disorders.
Sound knowledge of assessment and management of patients with varied medical
diagnoses e.g. cerebral palsy/neurological conditions and hearing impairment.
Confidential and ethical multidisciplinary approach to treatment of patients.
Manage human resources and provide clinical support to junior staff. Provide
supervision, clinical support and training to students. Provide supervision and
training of university students. Implement and contribute to the proper utilization of
allocated financial and physical resources. Safeguard and evaluate status of
equipment and infrastructure with a repair and maintenance programme. Perform
administrative tasks such as accurate compilation of monthly statistics, clinical
audits, report writing, attend and participate in meetings and assist in development
and implementation of protocols and policies. Participate in continuous
professional development activities. Implement quality assurance policies and
develop appropriate quality improvement plans. Attend management meetings and
forums. Perform all other allocate duties as delegated by Supervisor/Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Matshaya Tel no 043 708 2121
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to:
Ntombizini.Matshaya@echealth.gov.za
POST 22/367 : CHIEF DIETETICS (CLINICAL TUTOR) GRADE 1-3 REF NO: ECHEALTH/CD-
CT/ARP/SHRTD/01/06/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 - R472 389 per annum (OSD)
Grade 2: R482 499 - R550 389 per annum (OSD)
Grade 3: R564 822 - R683 808 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification (National Diploma/Degree in Dietetics) that allows for
registration with HPCSA as a Dietician. A Masters qualification will be an added
advantage. Registration with HPCSA as a Dietitian. Additional requirements:
sound knowledge in food services and community nutrition. Knowledge, skills and
Competencies required: Knowledge of relevant Acts, regulations, policies,
212
strategies, guidelines, and protocols within the department of health that impact on
nutrition outcomes. Comprehensive knowledge of current dietetics practice,
professional ethics, and healthcare delivery systems. Thorough understanding of
HPCSA accreditation standards, specifically those related to supervised
experiential learning and core competencies. Exceptional written and verbal
communication skills, including the ability to negotiate and maintain professional
relationships with diverse stakeholders (students, faculty, preceptors, and
administrators). Excellent organizational, time management, and problem-solving
skills, with a proven ability to manage complex scheduling and administrative tasks.
Proficiency in standard office software and experience utilizing learning
management systems (LMS) and student tracking software. Ability to work in multi-
disciplinary environment
DUTIES : Identify, negotiate, and maintain affiliation agreements (Memoranda of
Understanding) with a variety of appropriate clinical, community, food service, and
research settings to provide comprehensive supervised practice experiences.
Recruit, train, orient, and evaluate clinical supervisors. Conduct regular site visits
and evaluations of rotation sites and clinical supervisors to ensure the quality and
consistency of student learning experiences and adherence to programme
objectives. Coordinate the placement of students in training sites ensuring all
students complete the required number of hours in diverse settings. Develop and
conduct comprehensive orientation sessions for students prior to the start of their
supervised practice rotations. Serve as the primary departmental contact for
students during their clinical placements, providing guidance, addressing
concerns, and mediating issues between the student and the site supervisors.
Implement, monitor, and manage the student evaluation process, including mid-
point and final evaluations completed by supervisors and reflective assignments
completed by students. Collaborate with relevant staff members to integrate clinical
learning objectives with coursework, ensuring a seamless transition from
classroom to practice. Maintain meticulous records of student placements,
supervised practice hours, supervisor training, and student performance data,
fulfilling accreditation requirements. Participate actively in program review,
assessment, and accreditation activities, specifically providing data and narrative
related to the supervised experiential learning component. Participate in staff
training program in the unit. Provide optimal nutritional care to patients. May teach
one or more courses related to clinical skills, professional practice, or preparation,
as assigned by the Head of Department. Market and promote Dietetic services and
contribute towards research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel no 041 405 2348
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Noms.Tsotsobe@echealth.gov.za
213
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG PROVINCE
SOUTH AFRICAN POLICE SERVICE
APPLICATIONS : Due to the large volume of applications anticipated, it would be preferrable to hand-
deliver as follows:
Ekurhuleni 2 Ampere Road, Chloorkop, Kempton Park);
Soweto 1 Ndaba Drive, Protea North;
Sedibeng: 42 c/o Voortrekker and Stanley str, 3rd floor Vereeniging SAPS
Tshwane: Pretoria Moot SAPS, 586 Ben Swart and 17th Avenue, Pretoria Moot;
Krugersdorp: Krugersdorp SAPS, 118 Commissioner Street Krugersdorp
Johannesburg: Arthur Block, 7 Dolphin Street, Mayfair
Alternatively, forward to one of the following e email addresses:
Motaum2@saps.gov.za MotekaMK@saps.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 Form (2021 version), obtainable from
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp, which must be accompanied with
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. The post particulars and reference number of
the post you are applying for, must be correctly specified on the application form.
Please complete a separate application form for each post you wish to apply for. It
is the responsibility of the applicants to submit applications timeously to the correct
physical address as provided in the advertisement. Please note that applications
submitted to an incorrect physical address will not be considered. Late applications
will not be accepted or considered. Short-listed candidates will be required to
produce originals of their Identity Document (ID), Senior Certificate and all
educational qualifications obtained, service certificates from previous employers
stating the occupation and motor vehicle driver’s license, before the interview.
Qualifications and driver’s licences submitted will be subjected to verification with
the relevant institutions. Applicants must have no previous criminal convictions or
pending criminal/ departmental cases and shall allow their fingerprints to be taken
and background enquiries to be made. Short-listed candidates may be subjected
to a full security clearance process before or during any stage of employment.
Short-listed candidates will be subjected to a vetting process which will include
security screening, fingerprint screening, reference checking and verification of
address, where necessary. All short-listed candidates, including the SMS, will be
expected to undergo a personal interview and shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments, (a) a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based
on the post’s technical and generic requirements, as well as (b) an integrity
assessment (ethical conduct).Short-listed candidates for appointments to certain
identified posts will be vetted in terms of the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and
Related Matters) Amendment Act, 2007 (Act No 32 of 2007) and the Children’s
Act, 2005 (Act No 38 of 2005). A candidate whose particulars appear in either the
National Register for Sex Offenders or Part B of the Child Protection Register, will
be disqualified from appointment. Candidates are expected to disclose if he/ she
is a respondent in an interim or final protection order in terms of the Domestic
Violence Act, 1998 (Act no 116 of 1998) or Protection from Harassment Act, 2011
(Act No 17 of 2011), and may be disqualified from appointment. The Criminal Law
(Forensic Procedures) Amendment Act, Act 37 of 2013 requires that all new
appointments in the South African Police Service as from 31 January 2015 provide
a buccal (inside cheek) sample to determine their forensic DNA profile. The
forensic DNA profile derived from the sample will be loaded to the Elimination Index
of the National Forensic DNA Database. Appointments will be made in terms of the
Public Service Act, 1994 (Act No 103 of 1994) as applicable to the post
environment. Persons who retired from the Public Service by taking a severance
package, early retirement or medical retirement, as well as persons with previous
convictions, are excluded. The South African Police Service is an equal
opportunity, affirmative action employer and it is the intention to promote
representivity in the Public Service through the filling of these posts. Persons
whose transfer/ appointment will promote representivity will therefore receive
preference. The South African Police Service is under no obligation to fill a post
after the advertisement thereof. Correspondence will be conducted with successful
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/368 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR (X 4 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106. per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : Supply Chain Management MISP, Parktown (Ref No: GP 20/6/26)
OD &Strategic Management (Monitoring) Parktown (Ref No: GP 21/6/26)
PHO Crime Prevention (JHB Central) (Ref No: GP 22/6/26)
214
Provincial Commissioner’s Office, Parktown (Ref No: GP 23/6/26)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills & Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to
the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills Be
DUTIES : Ensure Administrative functions relevant to the core functions of the Component.
Ensure proper control over e-mails and files. Ensure accurate record keeping at
the Component. Compilation of minutes at meetings. Coordinate travel
arrangements and manage diary appointments. Compile and monitor data bases
relevant to the core functions of the Component.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
POST 22/369 : DATA TYPIST SUPERVISOR (X 5 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Ivory Park (Ref No: GP 24/6/26)
Diepsloot (Ref No: GP 25/6/26)
Vanderbijlpark (Ref No: GP 26/6/26)
Mamelodi East (Ref No: GP 27/6/26)
Temba (Ref No: GP 28/6/26)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills & Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to
the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Capture all information from dockets onto SAPS Systems. Capture information on
stolen and recovered property. Capture information on Station priority crimes.
Provide information from SAPS Systems to Investigating Officers. General
administration duties and record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
POST 22/370 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR (X 2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : PC Gauteng: Financial Management, Budget Parktown (Ref No: GP 29/6/26)
Tembisa (Ref No: GP 30/6/26)
REQUIREMENTS : Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or equivalent
qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4) years’
experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma / Degree
(NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s license for
at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills
& Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General Computer literacy
(MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, Outlook). Demonstrate
competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong interpersonal
skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound Planning,
215
Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and Facilitation Skills
Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer a needs analysis and compile Station/ Provincial Budget. Monitor
financial expenditure and salary administration and losses. Advise and assist
employees with financial related queries. Monitor Expenditure. Administer and
inspect financial registers. Verify granted financial authority.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
POST 22/371 : HUMAN RESOURCES CLERK SUPERVISOR (X 9 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Tembisa (Ref No: GP 31/6/26)
Moroka (Ref No: GP 32/6/26)
Honeydew (Ref No: GP 33/6/26)
Sebokeng (Ref No: GP 34/6/26)
Pretoria Central (Ref No: GP 35/6/26)
Randfontein (Ref No: GP 36/6/26)
Carletonville (Ref No: GP 37/6/26)
PC Gauteng: Human Resource Management, Recruitment, Parktown (Ref No: GP
38/6/26)
PC Gauteng: Human Resource Management, Discipline, Parktown (Ref No: GP
39/6/26)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle, will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills & Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to
the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organizing and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Implementation of HR Policies. Administer Employee Relations / Life Cycle
functions (leave administration, Service terminations, injuries on duty). Deal with
labour relations. Ensure compliance in terms of Performance Enhancement
Processes and Job Descriptions. Administration of transfers, promotions and
awards. Nominate employees for Employee health and wellness programmes.
Administration of Recruitment processes (entry level Trainees, External
appointments, issuing of appointment certificates, re-enlistments and
reinstatements). Ensure administration regarding disciplinary cases – updating of
SAPS Disciplinary systems according to SAPS Disciplinary Regulations.
Maintaining of Disciplinary cases data base.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
POST 22/372 : SECRETARY (X 26 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Springs (Ref No: GP 40/6/26)
Brakpan (Ref No: GP 41/6/26)
Kempton Park (Ref No: GP 42/6/26)
Diepsloot (Ref No: GP 43/6/26)
Honeydew (Ref No: GP 44/6/26)
Sophia Tow (Ref No: GP 45/6/26)
Orlando (Ref No: GP 46/6/26)
Lenasia (Ref No: GP 47/6/26)
Midrand (Ref No: GP 48/6/26)
Vereeniging (Ref No: GP 49/6/26)
Sedibeng District Commissioner (Ref No: GP 50/6/26)
Sunnyside (Ref No: GP 51/6/26)
Mamelodi (Ref No: GP 52/6/26)
Kagiso (Ref No: GP 53/6/26)
PC Gauteng: DPC Crime Detection, Parktown (Ref No: GP 54/6/26)
PC Gauteng: FCS, Parktown (Ref No: GP 55/6/26)
PC Gauteng: Legal Services (Ref No: GP 56/6/26)
PC Gauteng: Legal Support Parktown (Ref No: GP 57/6/26)
PC Gauteng: Policing, Parktown (Ref No: GP 58/6/26)
Police Emergency, Midrand (Ref No: GP 59/6/26)
216
Operational Coordination, Brixton (Ref No: GP 60/6/26)
PC Gauteng: Corporate Services, Parktown (Ref No: GP 61/6/26)
PC Gauteng: Financial Management, Parktown (Ref No: GP 62/6/26)
PC Gauteng: Supply Chain Management, Parktown (Ref No:GP 63/6/26)
PC Gauteng: Human Resource Mgt, Parktown (Ref No: GP 64/6/26)
PC Gauteng: Corporate Communication, Parktown (Ref No: GP 65/6/26)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills &
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render administrative functions. Maintain and manage diary appointments and
coordinate travel arrangements. Ensure proper control over e-mails and files
received. compilation of minutes at meetings. Professional liaison with relevant
stakeholders. General administration related to the core functions of the
Component / Station.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
POST 22/373 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X 29 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Ivory Park (Ref No: GP 66/6/26)
Daveyton (Ref No: GP 67/6/26)
Diepsloot (Ref No: GP 68/6/26)
Jeppe (Ref No: GP 69/6/26)
Yeoville (Ref No: GP 70/6/26)
Parkview (Ref No: GP 71/6/26)
Dobsonville (Ref No: GP 72/6/26)
PC Gauteng: FCS, Parktown (Ref No: GP 73/6/26)
Commercial Crime, Aeroton (Ref No: GP 74/6/26)
Organised Crime, Diepkloof (Ref No: GP 75/6/26)
PC Gauteng: Crime Investigation, Parktown (Ref No: GP 76/6/26)
Booysens VCIU (Ref No: GP 77/6/26)
Brixton Flying Squad (Ref No: GP 78/6/26)
Bronkhorstspruit K9 (Ref No: GP 79/6/26)
Brixton Accident Unit (Ref No: GP 80/6/26)
Operational Response Service, Jhb Central (Ref No: GP 81/6/26)
HRM, Library (Ref No: GP 82/6/26)
PC Gauteng: Corporate Communication, Parktown (Ref No: GP 83/6/26)
Pretoria Central Garage (Ref No: GP 84/6/26) (2 posts)
Benoni Garage (Ref No: GP 85/6/26) (2 posts)
JHB Central Garage (GP 86/6/26) (2 posts)
PC Gauteng: Civil Claims, Parktown (Ref No: GP 87/6/26) (2 posts)
Legal Services, Pretoria Central (Ref No: GP 88/6/26)
Legal Services, Vereeniging (Ref No: GP 89/6/26)
Legal Services, Benoni (Ref No: GP 90/6/26)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills &
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Ensure Administrative functions relevant to the core functions of the Component /
Station / Unit. Ensure proper control over e-mails and files. Ensure accurate record
keeping at the Component. Compilation of minutes at meetings. Compile and
monitor data bases relevant to the core functions of the Component.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
POST 22/374 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X 2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
217
CENTRE : Heidelberg (Ref No: GP 91/6/26)
De Deur (Ref No: GP 92/6/26)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills &
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render administrative functions within the Detective Service at Station. Capture
information on SAPS Crime Administration Systems. Crete / type e-mails and
documents for the Detective Section. Filing of dockets.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
POST 22/375 : DATA TYPIST (X 4 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Wierdabrug (Ref No: GP 93/6/26)
Reigerpark (Ref No: GP 94/6/26)
Rosebank (Ref No: GP 95/6/26)
Fochville (Ref No: GP 96/6/26)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills &
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render administrative functions within the Detective Service at Station. Capturing
data from dockets on SAPS Crime Administration Systems. Crete / type e-mails
and documents for the Detective Section. Filing of dockets.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
POST 22/376 : FINANCIAL CLERK (X 5 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Sandton (Ref No: GP 97/6/26)
Jabulani (Ref No: GP 98/6/26)
De Deur (Ref No: GP 99/6/26)
Mamelodi East (Ref No: GP 100/6/26)
Ivory Park (Ref No: GP 101/6/26)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills &
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer the registering and processing of claims and standing advances.
Process and administer salary matters. Process and administer matters related to
the Budget of Station. Administration of Financial registers.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
POST 22/377 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK (X 5 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Meyerton (Ref No: GP 102/6/26)
Sinoville (Ref No: GP 103/6/26)
218
PC Gauteng: Human Resource Management (Discipline), Parktown (Ref No: GP
104/6/26) (3 posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills &
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Implementation of HR Policies. Administer Employee Relations / Life Cycle
functions (leave administration, Service terminations, injuries on duty). Deal with
labour relations. Ensure compliance in terms of Performance Enhancement
Processes and Job Descriptions. Administration of transfers, promotions and
awards. Nominate employees for Employee health and wellness programmes.
Ensure administration regarding disciplinary
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423 / 7560
POST 22/378 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (X 6 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Randburg (Ref No: GP 105/6/26)
Brixton (Ref No: GP 106/6/26)
Garsfontein (Ref No: GP 107/6/26)
Randfontein (Ref No: GP 108/6/26)
Hekpoort (Ref No: GP 109/6/26)
PC Gauteng: Supply Chain Management (MGP), Parktown (Ref No: GP 110/6/26)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills &
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administration of processes related to Supply Chain Management at the Station/
Component. Administration of vehicle fleet, assets and moveable property.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
POST 22/379 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X 2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Boipatong (Ref No: GP 111/6/26)
Brooklyn (Ref No: GP 112/6/26)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills &
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render administrative functions within the Visible Policing environment at Station.
Capture information on SAPS Crime Administration Systems. Crete / type e-mails
and documents for the Visible Policing Section. Filing and record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
POST 22/380 : DATA TYPIST (X 3 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Devon (Ref No: GP 113/6/26)
Tarlton (Ref No: GP 114/6/26)
219
Magaliesburg (GP 115/6/26)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills &
Competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Capture information on the SAPS Crime Administration Systems as indicated in
crime dockets. Effective data capturing of arrested suspects, exhibits, operational
plans, stolen and recovered property. General and specific administration duties
and record keeping in the Visible Policing environment.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
POST 22/381 : SECURITY GUARD (X 30 POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226.per annum (Level 3)
CENTRE : Benoni VSS (Ref No: GP 116/6/26) (2 posts)
Booysens VSS (Ref No: GP 117/6/26) (1 post)
Protea VSS (Ref No: GP 118/6/26) (1 post)
HRDC JHB (Ref No: GP 119/6/26) (2 posts)
HRDC Krugersdorp (Ref No: GP 120/6/26) (4 posts)
Chamdor (Ref No: GP 121/6/26) (5 posts)
SVCI Wynberg (Ref No: GP 122/6/26) (2 posts)
Vereeniging Garage (Ref No: GP 123/6/26) (5 posts)
Jhb Garage (Ref No: GP 124/6/26) (6 posts)
PC Gauteng: Parktown (Ref No: GP 125/6/26) (2 posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of a Grade 10/ Standard 8/ NCV level 2 certificate/
report (NQF level 2 as recognized by SAQA), for which documentary proof can be
produced when required. Valid Registration with the Private Security Industry
Regulatory Authority (PSIRA). Be in possession of at least a Grade C security
certificate or higher. Not declared unfit to possess a fire-arm. Be willing to undergo
firearm competency training and to maintain firearm competency. Relevant
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will also serve as an added advantage. Be
willing to work shifts and extended hours. Knowledge, Skills & Competencies:
Knowledge of access control procedures. Knowledge of measures for the control
and movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed security
procedures (e.g., MIS, NISA, Protection of Information Act, etc.) and the authority
of security officers under these documents. Knowledge of the relevant emergency
procedures.
DUTIES : Execute control admission by positive identification of officers / employees, visitors
and maintenance personnel before they are allowed to enter the premises. Issue
admission control cards to visitors and receive them back. Keep the necessary
visitor’s register. Check supplies, articles and objects, where necessary, before
they are allowed to be brought into the premises to ensure that the safety of the
premises will not be threatened. Control the admission of vehicles in fenced-off
areas. Patrol buildings and fenced-off areas. Guard vehicles, workshops and
equipment in the field Supervise cleaners and maintenance personnel – ONLY
from a security point of view. Check all security equipment and facilities and take
action, when necessary. Bring any deficiencies or problems with regard to security
matters to the attention of senior security personnel. Render assistance to security
offices in the performance of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
POST 22/382 : CLEANER (X 17 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : PC Gauteng: Parktown (4posts) (Ref No: GP 126/6/26)
Benoni (Ref No: GP 127/6/26)
Crystalpark (Ref No: GP 128/6/26)
Rabie Ridge (Ref No: GP 129/6/26)
Alexandra (Ref No: GP 130/6/26)
Linden (Ref No: GP 131/6/26)
Norwood (Ref No: GP 132/6/26)
Vaal Marina (Ref No: GP 133/6/26)
220
Ratanda (Ref No: GP 134/6/26)
Ga-Rankuwa (Ref No: GP 135/6/26)
Hercules (Ref No: GP 136/6/26)
Bronkhorstspruit (Ref No: GP 137/6/26)
Krugersdorp (Ref No: GP 138/6/26)
Bekkersdal (Ref No: GP 139/6/26)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of ABET Level 4/ Grade 9/ Standard 7/ certificate/
report (NQF Level 1 as recognized by SAQA), for which documentary proof can be
produced when required. Knowledge, Skills & Competencies: Understanding of
how to handle cleaning detergents. Occupational Health and Safety protocol. Basic
literacy, numeracy and communication skills. Be able to read and write. Ability to
interact with other officials in a professional manner; The ability to operate
elementary machines and equipment. Willing to work extended hours when
necessary.
DUTIES : Maintaining of a high level of hygiene in and around the workplace with the cleaning
of the SAPS premises assigned to, which may include either or both inner and
outer parameters. Performing tasks of a routine nature, such as dusting. Polish
furniture and floors. Vacuum carpets and mopping of tile floors. Remove refuse.
Perform maintenance tasks in and around the assigned premises. Clean
bathrooms and kitchens. Safekeeping and handling of a variety of Aids in the
cleaning of the premises. Loading and unloading of goods. Garden maintenance
services. Washing and cleaning of state vehicles, kitchenware and utensils.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel Henning Tel No: (011) 274-7913/ 7423/ 7560
221
ANNEXUREC Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU NATAL
SOUTH AFRICAN POLICE SERVICE
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be hand-delivered, as follows: The Provincial Commissioner:
Provincial Recruitment, 15 Bramficher Road, Durban 4000 (Servamus Building) Or
can be posted in the following address: The Provincial Commissioner: Provincial
Recruitment, P.O. Box 1965, Durban 4000 (For attention: Lt Colonel S.N Zondo)
Via Email: KZN:Prov:HRPA:Zondo SN - Lt Col ZondoSN@saps.gov.za
KZN:Prov:HRPA:Machaie PL - Capt MachaieP@saps.gov.za
KZN:Prov:HRPA:Recruitment:Nkosi SV - PPO NkosiS2@saps.gov.za
KZN:Prov:HRPA:Petersen HD - SAC PetersenH@saps.gov.za
Mbokazi Sby- MbokaziSS@saps.gov.za
Moodley Shaun MoodleyS3@saps.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 Form (2021 version), obtainable from
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp, which must be accompanied with
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. The post particulars and reference number of
the post you are applying for, must be correctly specified on the application form.
Please complete a separate application form for each post you wish to apply for. It
is the responsibility of the applicants to submit applications timeously to the correct
physical address as provided in the advertisement. Please note that applications
submitted to an incorrect physical address will not be considered. Late applications
will not be accepted or considered. Short-listed candidates will be required to
produce originals of their Identity Document (ID), Senior Certificate and all
educational qualifications obtained, service certificates from previous employers
stating the occupation and motor vehicle driver’s license, before the interview.
Qualifications and driver’s licences submitted will be subjected to verification with
the relevant institutions. Applicants must have no previous criminal convictions or
pending criminal/ departmental cases and shall allow their fingerprints to be taken
and background enquiries to be made. Short-listed candidates may be subjected
to a full security clearance process before or during any stage of employment.
Short-listed candidates will be subjected to a vetting process which will include
security screening, fingerprint screening, reference checking and verification of
address, where necessary. All short-listed candidates, including the SMS, will be
expected to undergo a personal interview and shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments, (a) a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based
on the post’s technical and generic requirements, as well as (b) an integrity
assessment (ethical conduct).Short-listed candidates for appointments to certain
identified posts will be vetted in terms of the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and
Related Matters) Amendment Act, 2007 (Act No 32 of 2007) and the Children’s
Act, 2005 (Act No 38 of 2005). A candidate whose particulars appear in either the
National Register for Sex Offenders or Part B of the Child Protection Register, will
be disqualified from appointment. Candidates are expected to disclose if he/ she
is a respondent in an interim or final protection order in terms of the Domestic
Violence Act, 1998 (Act no 116 of 1998) or Protection from Harassment Act, 2011
(Act No 17 of 2011), and may be disqualified from appointment. The Criminal Law
(Forensic Procedures) Amendment Act, Act 37 of 2013 requires that all new
appointments in the South African Police Service as from 31 January 2015 provide
a buccal (inside cheek) sample to determine their forensic DNA profile. The
forensic DNA profile derived from the sample will be loaded to the Elimination Index
of the National Forensic DNA Database. Appointments will be made in terms of the
Public Service Act, 1994 (Act No 103 of 1994) as applicable to the post
environment. Persons who retired from the Public Service by taking a severance
package, early retirement or medical retirement, as well as persons with previous
convictions, are excluded. The South African Police Service is an equal
opportunity, affirmative action employer and it is the intention to promote
representivity in the Public Service through the filling of these posts. Persons
whose transfer/ appointment will promote representivity will therefore receive
preference. The South African Police Service is under no obligation to fill a post
after the advertisement thereof. Correspondence will be conducted with successful
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/383 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: Operational Command Centre (OCC) Ref No: KZN ACS 01/06/2026 (x1post)
PHO: Police Emergency Services (PES) Ref No : KZN ACS 02/06/2026 (x1post)
PHO : Proactive Policing (OCC) Ref No : KZN ACS 03/06/2026 (x1post)
222
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service and Competencies: Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administration and evaluation performance of the component. Consolidate
quarterly AOP monitoring tools. Prepare presentation for Provincial Vispol Forum
and Provincial joints. Consolidate feedback for the Medium-Term Development
Plan. Co-ordinate Questions in Parliament and post audit action plan Administer
risk compliance, consolidation of quarterly risk assessment register and compliant
received against the Police
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/384 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: Personnel Management: MISP Ref No: KZN ACS 04/06/2026(x1post)
PHO: Corporate Communication: MISP Ref No: KZN ACS 05/06/2026(x1post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service and Competencies Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Manage the compilation of Performance Agreement once per year and two
assessments for Provincial Head. Consolidate monthly reports on monthly
performance on feedback and planning co-ordination within the Component in
Terms of Provincial Directives. Verify data monthly to ensure accuracy to analyse
and compile management reports. Identify generic reports to be generated by the
MI. Consolidate management information to generate both generic and specific
reports upon request monthly. Prepare (01) professional, accurate management
reports / presentations on a quarterly basis in terms of and Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act (PAJA) 3 of 2000. Manage and coordinate all
administration relating to vehicle fleet monthly, and inspections. Ensure Petrol on
POLFIN monthly reports are verified from petrol slips against FNB reports are
received from SCM for vehicles. Conduct provisioning and logistical needs
assessment to identify needs and shortages on moveable and immovable
government property/stock. Manage budget weekly, monitor financial expenditure
weekly and salary administration and losses at the monthly. Manager and monitor
compliance with the instructions related to Job Descriptions Performance
Enhancement Process (PEP) and Performance Management. Manager and
facilitate the training needs for personnel within the component and act as a skills
development facilitator for the component. Manage the leave of personnel within
the Component. Monitor and update Z8 register (attendance register), Leave
register, Absence register to office instructions, Time due register in terms National
Instruction2/2004. Manage cellular phone accounts for officers and telephone
accounts for employees monthly within the component. Manage the chief User for
the Component by ensuring that office inventories are maintained in. Control the
utilisation of equipment as per office inventory. Manage two (02) photocopy
machine daily (on the usage) and ensure report to Minolta if not working.
223
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/385 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: KZN ACS
06/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: Crime Detection: MISP
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service And Competencies: Good verbal and written communication skills.
General Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS
Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills.
Strong interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving,
Sound Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development implementation and management of the operational
plan. and Performance Chart at the province. Maintain and coordinate Information
systems at the province. Ensure data Integrity of all mainframe systems at the
province. Maintain and direct Provincial Efficiency Performance profile and targets
/Compile reports. Monitoring of Performance Chart System within the Province.
Consolidating of Information co-ordination for the DPC Crime Detection: Detective
Service: KZN.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/386 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: KZN ACS
07/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: Organisational Development: Fixed Establishment
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service and Competencies: Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Receive and verify information on leave application forms (SAP 26) and capture
on the system on daily basis. Maintain attendance Register (Z8 register) by co-
ordinating inspection on daily and monthly, and submitting to component Head.
Co-ordinate monthly return on leave audit for members within OD & Strategic
Management. Maintain register for hourly absence and submit weekly to Provincial
Head for inspection. Co-ordinate weekly return on opening registry files, circulating
files to other role players, closing of files. Compile monthly status report on request
for posts particulars. Co-ordinate and compile procurement needs for M & E
Section (obtaining quotations, rotation of suppliers etc) and submit status, report
weekly in accordance with PFMA prescripts. Co-ordinate registry files per week
regarding: - Opening registry files, circulating files to other role players, Closing of
files in terms of NI on archives. Assist in co-ordinating administration files for losses
in terms of loss management prescripts and compile monthly status report.Co-
ordinate and compile weekly and monthly performance report on: Station SPR
sheets facilitated, Station audit conducted, Fixed establishment posts distributed
according to schedule, Requests received for post confirmation, sent to Head
Office, sent to Personnel Services. List of structures/components verified on
224
System. No of files SAP495 were completed and submitted. Transfer committee
meetings attended. attended HRC meetings. HRC action log status.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/387 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: KZN ACS
08/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: Organisational Development: Work-Study
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service and Competencies Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate concept budget yearly. Co-ordinate cell phone and telephone
accounts monthly. Co-ordinate one (1) weekly return on status of itinerary
submitted, requests for advances made and Submission of claims. Certify
telephone lines, data lines and cellular accounts annually. Certifying pay rolls for
OD & Strategic Management monthly. Co-ordinating one (01) monthly return on
Provision training of members. Check and ensure that claim forms are completed
accurately before submission to accounting office or financial authority on Polfin.
Co-ordinate registry files regarding opening registry files, circulating files to other
role player, close files. Co-ordinate and compile administration files for losses
status reports. Compile a weekly database of work study investigations. Compile
a database of implementation of approve work study investigations. Compile
schedule of database for implementation committee meeting and update status
report. Compile and Co-ordinate database of request for Management reports.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/388 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: KZN ACS
09/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: Human Resource Development: Support Services
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service And Competencies Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Supervise and co-ordinate performance management system related matters.
Supervise and administer behaviour management. Supervise the management of
an effective and efficient absenteeism management system. Supervise the efficient
service termination process. Supervise the submission of monthly return. Facilitate
the compilation of the concept budget. Monitor proper state income management.
Inspect financial registers and verify granted financial authorities. Supervise the
allocation of overtime budget and application per budget allocation. Supervise the
prescript relating to submitting financial disclosures (SMS, MMS and identified
categories) and submit application for remuneration work. Conduct weekly
225
systematic monitoring of POLFIN of HRD Centres and submit report to
commanders. Supervise the submission of pay-sheet-related matters. Supervise
the approving and submission of all itineraries and claims received. Supervise the
gift & Hospitality register for Human Resource Development PH. Supervise an
effective and efficient state asset and inventory control management. Monitor
distribution and utilization of physical resources. Supervise the management of
SHE management matters.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/389 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: KZN ACS
10/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: Supply Chain Management: MISP
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service And Competencies Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. *Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render administrative duties pertaining to logistics regarding Supply Chain
Management related functions. Maintain the budget and control and monitor
Financial Administration. Maintain the organizational & operational profile Gather
and evaluate management information. Prepare graphics and other management
presentations. Initiate and manage the provincial participation and performance on
government initiated and empowerment projects. Render administrative services
i.r.o SCM, HRM and Finance & Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/390 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: KZN ACS
11/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: Auxiliary Services: Support
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service and Competencies Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Attend to all Administrative matters for the component which includes: Compiling
and circulating the Provincial duty list weekly. Human Resource Duties which
include all Absenteeism matters, Transfers, Disciplinary matters, Grievances,
Compiling returns for the Component. All Supply Chain duties for the component
which includes asset certification and maintaining the Stock Register (SAPS 24);
Compiling applications for stock and equipment. Attending to all Financial related
matters including the concept Budget of the component, monitoring of expenditure,
certification of paysheet, overtime applications, completing and handling of all
claims. Assist to Conduct inspections at Districts and Stations.
226
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/391 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: KZN HRS
01/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: Personnel Management: Service Termination
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service and Competencies Good verbal and written communication skills. general
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Manage and monitoring service termination of the station documents. Capturing
and uploading service termination. Ensure the finalization of service termination
with timeframes. Manage the PERSAP function 2.21.57 drawn daily. Ensure the
acknowledgement of receipt, capturing and sending of exit interview forms for the
employees. Supervise the submission of death grant application of good quality to
Head Office. Manage and handle rejections from the Administration agencies.
Ensure the Station Service Termination are trained. Ensure the Service
Termination documents received are submitted at Head Office.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/392 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: KZN HRS
02/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: HR Planning and Utilisation
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service and Competencies Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Assisting in the co-ordination of HR Planning Utilisation within the Province.
Assisting in the training of Human Resources Utilisation personnel at station level
in respect of HRU within the province. Co-ordinate administration processes
pertaining to Human Resources Utilization.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/393 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: KZN HRS
03/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: HRU: Performance management
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
227
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service and Competencies Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Facilitate the capturing of PEP documents PERSAP system for all employees from
salary level 1 to salary level 12 within the province. Facilitate that PEP & Audit.
Inspect and verify PEP Information captured for PEP plans and assessment on
employees from salary level 1 to 12 within the province. Facilitate and conduct PEP
Audit for the plan and written assessment of PEP information on employees from
salary level to 12. Facilitate and assist in conducting PEP Practical training to
employees within the province. Consolidate terminated employees return on salary
level 1-12 within the province. Administer incoming & outgoing correspondence
within the section, file documents and correspondence Take minutes when
meetings for the section are held and type them. Prepare the itineraries for the
section.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/394 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR Ref No: KZN HRS
04/06/2026(x1post)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: Human Resource Utilisation: Labour Relations
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service And Competencies Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : *Render typing services, office administration and documentation in relation to the
sections functional activities and rendering of filling system. Render secretarial and
administrative support functions for the section. Assist with management of conflict
and improving labour relations in the province. Assist with management of
grievances in the province.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/395 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: KZN SCS
01/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R338 106.per annum (level 7)
CENTRE PHO: Crime Detection: Support Services
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service And Competencies Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
228
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administrate effective and efficient asset management and inventory control.
Ensure distribution and utilisation of physical resources Administration of losses
and damages to state property. Ensure procurement of resources as per prescript.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/396 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: KZN SCS 2/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: SCM: Asset Management: Support Services
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service And Competencies Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To manage all aspects regarding the maintenance of VAS asset registration for
state owned leased accommodation within the SAPS. Management of official
accommodation in the province. To ensure the provision of an effective property
information management function in the SAPS. Conduct of inspections in respect
of fixed assets.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/397 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO : KZN FCS 01/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: Financial Services: Salary Administration
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service and Competencies Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Process changes to banking details. Manage and administer stoppage of salaries
and payrolls. Administer and deposit payments for private telephone calls.
Administration of tax numbers in the province. Processing overtime and Province.
Claims. Address aspects relating to housing.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/398 : LIBRARY CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO : KZN LCS 01/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : PHO: Human Resource Development
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
229
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the Public
Service and Competencies Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide Library services which include distribution and collection of library material.
Provide information service to patrons on immediate demand. Market the
Provincial Library and Orientate Users. Develop and render selective
dissemination of information (SD 1) and actuality services. Organise the library
material according to the standard of the Organisation.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/399 : SECURITY GUARD SUPERVISOR REF NO. KZN SGS 01/06/2026 (1X POST)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : PHO: Auxiliary Services (Durban)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Applicants must display competency in the post-specific core functions
of the post. Be in possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or National
Certificate (Vocational) recorded on the National Learner Record Database on
NQF level 4. NQF level 5 qualification in Security (risk) Management, Policing,
criminology or related field of study or higher will serve as an advantage.
Registration with the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority (PSIRA) with a
minimum of at least Grade B security certificate. Minimum of 3 years’ experience
in security. Not declared unfit to possess a firearm. Be willing to undergo firearm
competency training. Be willing to maintain firearm competency. Be fluent in at
least two of the official languages, of which one must be English. Be a South
African Citizen. Must have no previous criminal/ departmental convictions or
criminal/ departmental cases pending. Degree / Diploma in the field of security will
be an added advantage. Applicants will be subjected to a vetting process which
will include security screening and fingerprint verification. Relevant courses in the
field of the post as well as valid driver’s license for at least a light motor vehicle will
serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of access control
procedures. Knowledge of measures for the and Competencies control and
movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed security procedures
(e.g., MIS, NISA, Protection of Information Act, etc.) and the authority of security
officers under these documents. Knowledge of the relevant emergency
procedures. Client service skills. Be able to operate security related technology
and devices (handheld metal detectors, handheld radio communication, etc).
Telephone etiquettes. Be able to take initiative steps to address issues of
discipline. Be computer literate. Have an understanding and be able to apply rules,
regulations and legislation relevant to the security environment. Be willing to work
a 12-hour shift and extended hours as and when required. Sound knowledge and
application of the Minimum Information Security Standards, Minimum Physical
Security Standards, Control Public Premises and Vehicles Act, 53 of 1985. Be
familiar with emergency evacuation procedures.
DUTIES : Supervise the guarding of the Provincial Headquarters, personnel, vehicles and
equipment. Supervise the legal and safe entry and exit of employees, visitors and
motor vehicles. Inspection of and updating of all relevant security registers.
Supervise the patrol of the premises to prevent and detect signs of intrusion and
ensure security of all entry and exit points. Enforce security access measures and
reporting of all security breaches. Handling of all administrative matters for all
security reliefs. Managing all control rooms duties, including monitoring of CCTV
cameras, registration and maintaining the Facial Recognition ANPR System.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/400 : ADMINISTRATION CLERKS
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (level 5)
230
CENTRE : PHO: Legal Services (Umgungundlovu District,) Ref No: KZN AC 01/06/2026(x1
post)
PHO: Legal services (Umkhanyakude District) Ref No : KZN AC 02/06/2026(x1
post)
PHO: Legal Services (King Cetshwayo District) Ref No : KZN AC 03/06/2026(x1
post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills General
computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide General administration duties relating to Legal Services. Administer
processes relating to the investigation/determination of liability of losses/civil
claims. Administer processes relating to the reporting/recording of losses/civil
claims in accordance with the national norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/401 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: KZN AC 04/06/2026(X1 POST)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : PHO: Legal Services: Arbitration
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). *Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills General
computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide General administration duties relating to Legal Services. Assist with
arbitration case flow management including liaising with SSSBC/CCMAA/National
Office arbitration Nodal Point /Legal Officials relating to arbitration matters.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/402 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : SAPS Kokstad garage Ref No: KZN AC 05/06/2026(1xpost)
SAPS Jacobs garage Ref No: KZN AC 06/06/2026(1 post))
SAPS Marianhill garage Ref No: KZN AC 07/06/2026(x1 post)
SAPS Jozini garage Ref No: KZN AC 08/06/2026(x1 post)
PHO: SCM Ref No: KZN AC 09/06/2026(x2 posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills General
computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. *Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render duties of administrative nature which will include general administration
duties as well as specific administrative duties Process application for acquisition
of goods and services Supply maintenance on SAPS DATA and CSD inspection
Rotation of suppliers according to the CSD Administration of returns Perform
requisition and Acquisition Monitor procurement applications and update
procurement systems/ Database Maintain suppliers and procurement database.
231
Communicate and update Chief User on order expected delivery note follow up
invoice payment and address suppliers’ payment enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/403 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: KZN AC 10/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R237 453. per annum level 5)
CENTRE : PHO: Human Resource Development: Band
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant
experience Relevant courses in the field of the post will serve as an added
advantage. Knowledge, Skills General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS
Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies PowerPoint and MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Sound
planning, organizing, administrative and problem-solving skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be willing to work under
pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Set up microphone and Sound system throughout the province or where required.
Check sound levels and equipment functionality, run sound checks, and other task
using MIDI (Musical Instrument Digital interface) production instrument. Service
sound equipment of the component*Render duties of administrative nature which
will include general administration duties as well as specific administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/404 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: KZN AC 11/06/2026(1XPOST)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : PHO: HRU: MISP/MIC
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills General
computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render administrative duties pertaining to Supply Chain Management. To maintain
the section telephone accounts and cell phone accounts. To render administrative
duties pertaining to HR regarding Personnel Services related functions*Health and
Safety representation.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/405 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : PHO: Provincial Police Emergency Services (PES) Ref No: KZN AC
12/06/2026(x1post)
PHO: Proactive Policing Ref No : KZN AC 13/06/2026(x1post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills general
computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render duties of administrative nature which will include general administration
duties as well as specific administrative duties. Typing of official documents as well
as presentations. Consolidate weekly/monthly/Quarterly returns. Co-ordinate cell
232
phone / telephone accounts. Processing of itineraries claims and booking off
accommodation and flights. Manage a brought forward system.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/406 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO : KZN AC 14/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : PHO: Operational Command Centre (POCC)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills General
computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render duties of administrative nature which will include general administration
duties as well as specific administrative duties. Typing of official documents as well
as presentations. Consolidate weekly/monthly/Quarterly returns. Co-ordinate
cellphone / telephone accounts. Processing of itineraries claims and booking of
accommodation and flights. Registration of operational on OPAM. Consolidate of
operational plan Manage a brought forward system. Compilation and
dissemination of provincial Instruction
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/407 : HUMAN RESOURCES CLERK REF NO : KZN HRC 01/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : PHO: PM: Transfer & Records
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills General
computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. ood verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the processing of transfer in and between Clusters. Processing of
transfers to and from Provincial Components /specialized unit. Process of transfers
out of and into the province. Administer and update the establishment.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/408 : HUMAN RESOURCES CLERK REF NO : KZN HRC O2/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : PHO: PM: Medicals
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills General
computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Process new reporting of injury on duty. Maintain database for processing injury
on duty. Request new injury on duty documents from the station and Provincial
office. Provide training and guidance to station and provincial office. Process injury
on duty documents to Head Office. Process injury on duty documents from backlog
as backlog on outstanding list received from Head Office. Provide advice and
233
guidance from station and Provincial office. Compile letters/emails to provincial
components, station and units for outstanding injury on duty documents. Conduct
inspection in all the districts for injury on duty files. Prepare Head Office inspection
for injury on duty.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/409 : HUMAN RESOURCES CLERK REF NO: KZN HRC 03/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : PHO: PM: Discipline
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills General
computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. *Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Monitor all Disciplinary investigations. Monitor all arrested members (Police /PSA
members). Render administrative duties pertaining to disciplinary management.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/410 : HUMAN RESOURCES CLERK (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : SAPS Durban Central: Ref No: KZN HRC 04/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Empangeni: Ref No: KZN HRC 05/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Inanda: Ref No: KZN HRC 06/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Umlazi: Ref No: KZN HRC 0706/2026(x1post)
SAPS KwaDukuza:Ref No: KZN HRC 08/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Plessislaer: Ref No: KZN HRC 09/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Phoenix: Ref No: KZN HRC 10/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Pietermaritzburg: Ref No: KZN HRC 11/06/2026(x1post)
PHO: Crime Detection: support Ref No: KZN HRC 12/06/2026(x1post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills General
computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Verify information on leave application forms (SAPS 26). Process and finalise leave
applications. Receive, administer and process applications for medical boards,
death boards, alcohol boards, stress and depression related boards. Receive,
administer and process applications for service terminations, discharges and
pensions. Maintain statistical data and submit medical reports, Performance
Enhancement Process (PEP) progress reports, service termination reports, HR
reports (Personnel database), EE Reports and personnel reports to provinces.
Receive and process transfers. Submit applications for transfers to the Head: HRM
for consideration. Receive and process promotions. Verify information (SAPS 172)
and capture it on the PERSAP System on personnel (employees) records. Forward
copies of SAPS 172 to provincial office. Receive and register disciplinary/grievance
enquiries. Forward grievance/disciplinary enquiries to the Head: HRM for further
instruction. Process and finalise grievance/disciplinary enquiries. Capture PEP
information for the purpose of compliance with employees. Process the incentives
and rewards of employees annually. Consolidate and submit PEP progress report
on compliance to province.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/411 : FINANCIAL CLERK (X2 POST)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (level 5)
234
CENTRE : SAPS Empangeni: Ref No: KZN FC 01/16/2026(x1post)
SAPS Inanda: Ref No: KZN FC 02/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Umlazi: Ref No: KZN FC 03/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS KwaDukuza: Ref No: KZN FC 04/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Plessislaer: Ref No: KZN FC 05/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Phoenix: Ref No KZN FC 06/06/2026(x1post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills General
computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Process claims and standing advances. Check and ensure that claim forms are
completed accurately before submission to accounting office or financial authority
on Polfin. Check and ensure processing of financial payments, standing advances,
and administrative processes on Polfin, claims, and debts. Administer overtime
remuneration and allowances. Check/monitor telephone accounts and payments
thereof. Administer and control losses of state money, face value forms. Administer
payments to suppliers. Administer cash received and issue receipts for money
received. Deposit money at accounting station/area office/financial institution.
Process claims and standing advances.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403/6403
POST 22/412 : FINANCIAL CLERK REF NO: KZN FC 07/06/2026(X1POST)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : PHO: Financial Services:
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added Knowledge, Skills General computer
literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies PowerPoint
and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administration of the Telephone Management System. Administration of cellular
phone accounts. Administration of Semi-Official Institutions Render duties of
administrative nature which will include general administration duties as well as
specific administrative duties
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/413 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : SAPS Durban Central: Ref No: KZN SCC 01/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Empangeni: Ref No: KZN SCC 02/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Inandac: Ref No: KZN SCC 03/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Umlazi: Ref No: KZN SCC 04/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS KwaDukuza: Ref No: KZN SCC 05/1062026(x1post)
SAPS Plessislaer: Ref No: KZN SCC 06/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Phoenix: Ref No: KZN SCC 07/06/2026(x1post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills General
computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
235
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Perform requisition and acquisition and distribution of stock/service orders from
provisioning stores. Receive equipment/stock/service and process invoice
administration. Issue and exercise consumable equipment/stock control. Maintain
supplier and procurement database. Render duties of administrative nature which
will include general administration duties as well as specific administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/414 : SECRETARY (x4 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (level 5)
CENTRE : SAPS KwaDukuza: Ref No: KZN SEC 01/06/2026(x1post)
PHO: Crime Detection: OC: Ref No KZN SEC 02/06/2026 (x1post)
PHO: Crime Detection: SVC: Ref No KZN SEC 03/06/2026(x1post)
eThekwini District: DDC: Ref No KZN SEC 04/06/2026(x1post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills General
computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS And Competencies
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To provide secretarial support functions in the relevant office. Type reports, letters,
memoranda and monitor flow of documents to and from the relevant office. Manage
the diary of the Head of the office for internal and external engagements. Co-
ordinate travel arrangements, including accommodation and subsistence
allowances as well as claims. Maintain an updated filing system in the relevant
office. Distribute correspondence and circulars to the relevant stakeholders and
keep a register of all incoming and outgoing post up to date. Handle routine
correspondence, send and receive e-mails and faxes immediately. Answer and
make telephone calls on behalf of the Head of the office and take messages
professionally. Provide support during meetings and workshops involving the
relevant office. Handle confidential documents. Be able to operate standard
equipment (fax, photocopy machine, telephone, computers, etc.). Host and serving
of refreshments to visitors during meetings. Manage the inventory of the relevant
office. Be willing to work extended hours.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/415 : SECURITY GUARD
SALARY : R170 226. per annum (level 3)
CENTRE SAPS Isipingo VSS Ref No: KZN SG 01/06/2026 (8x posts)
SAPS Jozini Garage: Ref No: KZN SG 02/06/2026 (4x posts)
SAPS Wentworth garage Ref.No KZN SG 03/06/2026(2x posts)
SAPS Portshepstone VSS Ref No. KZN SG 04/06/2026(2x posts)
SAPS Kokstad VSS: Ref No: KZN SG 05/06/2026(2x posts)
PHO: Auxiliary Services: Ref.No: KZN SG 06/06/2026(1xpost)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of a Grade 10/ Standard 8/ NCV level 2 certificate/
report (NQF level 2 as recognized by SAQA), for which documentary proof can be
produced when required. Valid Registration with the Private Security Industry
Regulatory Authority (PSIRA). Be in possession of at least a Grade C security
certificate or higher. Not declared unfit to possess a firearm. Be willing to undergo
firearm competency training and to maintain firearm competency. Relevant
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle, will also serve as an added advantage. Be
willing to work shifts and extended hours. Knowledge, Skills Knowledge of access
control procedures. Knowledge of measures for the And Competencie Control and
movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed security procedures
(e.g., MIS, NISA, Protection of Information Act, etc.) and the authority of security
officers under these documents. Knowledge of the relevant emergency
procedures.
DUTIES : Execute Access Control in terms of the Control of Access to Public Premises and
Vehicles Act (Act No. 53 of 1985); Positive identification of employees, visitors and
236
contactors at the security access point; Registering of employees, visitors and
contractors, electronic searching of employees, visitors and contractors; Authorize
entry into the premises to employees, visitors and contractors after complying with
all the legislative requirements, confirm visits with the hosts and ensure escort in
line with the prescripts; Issue admission control cards to visitors and receive them
back; Keep the necessary visitor’s register; Check suppliers, articles and objects,
where necessary, before they are allowed to be brought into the premises to
ensure that the safety of the premises will not be threatened; Patrol buildings and
fenced-off areas; Guard vehicles and equipment in the field – ONLY from a security
point of view; Check all security equipment and facilities and take action, when
necessary; Bring any deficiencies or problems with regard to security matters to
the attention of senior security personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
POST 22/416 : CLEANER
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (level 2)
CENTRE : PHO: KZN KZN: GW 01/06/2026(x2posts)
SAPS Ntuzma CCTV: KZN GW 02/06/2026 (x1post)
SAPS Kokstad Garage: KZN GW 03/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Isipingo VSS: KZN GW 04/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Isipingo VCIU: KZN GW 05/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Vryheid STES: KZNGW 06/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Empangeni FCS: KZN GW 07/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Umlazi FCS: KZN GW 08/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Amajuba District: KZN GW 09/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Umgungundlovu District: KZN GW 10/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Ethekwini District: KZN GW 11/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Harry Gwala District: KZN GW 12/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Ilembe District: KZN GW 13/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Ugu District: KZN GW 14/06/2026(x1post)
SAPS Umzinyathi District: KZN GW 15/06/2022(x1post)
SAPS King Cetshwayo District KZN GW 16/06/2022(x1post)
SAPS Uthukela District: KZN GW 17/06/2022(x1post)
SAPS Zululand District: KZN GW 18/06/2022(x1post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of ABET Level 4/ Grade 9/ Standard 7 certificate/ report
(NQF level 1 as recognized by SAQA), for which documentary proof can be
produced when required. Knowledge, Skills Understanding of how to handle
cleaning detergents; Occupational And Competencies Health and Safety protocol;
Basic literacy, numeracy and communication skills; Be able to read and write;
Ability to interact with other officials in a professional manner; The ability to operate
elementary machines and equipment; Willing to work extended hours when
necessary.
DUTIES : Maintaining of a high level of hygiene in and around the workplace with the cleaning
of the SAPS premises assigned to, which may include either or both inner and
outer parameters; Performing tasks of a routine nature, such as dusting; Polish
furniture and floors. Vacuum carpets and mopping of tile floor; Remove refuse;
Perform maintenance tasks in and around the assigned premises; Clean
bathrooms and kitchens; Safekeeping and handling of a variety of Aids in the
cleaning of the premise; Loading and unloading of goods. Garden maintenance
services; Washing and cleaning of state vehicles, kitchenware and utensils.
ENQUIRIES : Lieutenant Colonel S N Zondo/Captain Machaie /SAC Nkosi/AC Petersen/PO
Moodley Tel No: (031) 325-4808 / 6194 / 4957/6404/6403
237
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO PROVINCE
SOUTH AFRICAN POLICE SERVICE
APPLICATIONS : Direct your application to the following addresses: Hand delivery address: No. 44
Schoeman Street, Polokwane, Landbank Building, 3rd Floor Office No.316. Posted
applications: The Provincial Head: Human Resource Management, Recruitment
Office (Attention: Lt Col Kobe), South African Police Service, Limpopo Province,
Private Bag X9428, Polokwane, 0700. Email: ManokoTJ@saps.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a Z83 Form (2021 version), obtainable from
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp, which must be accompanied with
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. The post particulars and reference number of
the post you are applying for, must be correctly specified on the application form.
Please complete a separate application form for each post you wish to apply for. It
is the responsibility of the applicants to submit applications timeously to the correct
physical address as provided in the advertisement. Please note that applications
submitted to an incorrect physical address will not be considered. Late applications
will not be accepted or considered. Short-listed candidates will be required to
produce originals of their Identity Document (ID), Senior Certificate and all
educational qualifications obtained, service certificates from previous employers
stating the occupation and motor vehicle driver’s license, before the interview.
Qualifications and driver’s licences submitted will be subjected to verification with
the relevant institutions. Applicants must have no previous criminal convictions or
pending criminal/ departmental cases and shall allow their fingerprints to be taken
and background enquiries to be made. Short-listed candidates may be subjected
to a full security clearance process before or during any stage of employment.
Short-listed candidates will be subjected to a vetting process which will include
security screening, fingerprint screening, reference checking and verification of
address, where necessary. All short-listed candidates, including the SMS, will be
expected to undergo a personal interview and shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments, (a) a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based
on the post’s technical and generic requirements, as well as (b) an integrity
assessment (ethical conduct).Short-listed candidates for appointments to certain
identified posts will be vetted in terms of the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and
Related Matters) Amendment Act, 2007 (Act No 32 of 2007) and the Children’s
Act, 2005 (Act No 38 of 2005). A candidate whose particulars appear in either the
National Register for Sex Offenders or Part B of the Child Protection Register, will
be disqualified from appointment. Candidates are expected to disclose if he/ she
is a respondent in an interim or final protection order in terms of the Domestic
Violence Act, 1998 (Act no 116 of 1998) or Protection from Harassment Act, 2011
(Act No 17 of 2011), and may be disqualified from appointment. The Criminal Law
(Forensic Procedures) Amendment Act, Act 37 of 2013 requires that all new
appointments in the South African Police Service as from 31 January 2015 provide
a buccal (inside cheek) sample to determine their forensic DNA profile. The
forensic DNA profile derived from the sample will be loaded to the Elimination Index
of the National Forensic DNA Database. Appointments will be made in terms of the
Public Service Act, 1994 (Act No 103 of 1994) as applicable to the post
environment. Persons who retired from the Public Service by taking a severance
package, early retirement or medical retirement, as well as persons with previous
convictions, are excluded. The South African Police Service is an equal
opportunity, affirmative action employer and it is the intention to promote
representivity in the Public Service through the filling of these posts. Persons
whose transfer/ appointment will promote representivity will therefore receive
preference. The South African Police Service is under no obligation to fill a post
after the advertisement thereof. Correspondence will be conducted with successful
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/417 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR: EXPENDITURE AND SALARY
MAINTENANCE REF NO: LIM 01/06/2026 (1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Provincial Finance Services: Polokwane.
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
238
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
licence, for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer telephone and cellphone accounts. Monitor schedules for payment of
invoices. Monitor of expenditure in relation to expenses on telephone and
cellphone accounts and complete letters / information notes. Coordinates
upgrades on cellphones. Maintain and update Polfin master for telephones and
cellphones. Monitor SAPS 70 (Medical payments for detainees)
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries can be directed to Lt Col Kobe at 015 290 6026, PPO Manoko at 015
290 6131, PO Mphela at 015 290 6024 and PO Kola at 015 290 6015
POST 22/418 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SERVICES (5
POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Lebowakgomo SAPS: LIM 02/06/2026 (1 Post)
Tubatse SAPS: LIM 03/06/2026 (1 Post)
Modimolle SAPS: LIM 04/06/2026 (1 Post)
Bela-Bela SAPS: LIM 05/06/2026 (1 Post)
Groblersdal SAPS: LIM 06/06/2026 (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
licence, for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render financial administrative support. Manage effective and efficient telephone
services. Administer Allowances and Overtime Remuneration. Maintain the District
revenue fund (cash) and administer advances and claims. Administer the
miscellaneous financial accounting aspects within the accounting. Budget
management. Administer salary related matters within the accounting. Manage
and control physical and financial resources in the immediate post environment.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries can be directed to Lt Col Kobe at 015 290 6026, PPO Manoko at 015
290 6131, PO Mphela at 015 290 6024 and PO Kola at 015 290 6015
POST 22/419 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR: ACQUISITION AND CONTRACT
MANAGEMENT REF NO: LIM 07/06/2026 (1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Provincial SCM: Polokwane.
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
licence, for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
239
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Keep budget register and spreadsheet up to date, maintain the budget and Co-
ordinate the expenditure of the Provincial SCM. Management, monitoring,
evaluation, reporting process and control process of the budget. Ensure that
contracts are up to date and all documents are in contract file. Keeping records
and monitor global financial authority. Registering of suppliers.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries can be directed to Lt Col Kobe at 015 290 6026, PPO Manoko at 015
290 6131, PO Mphela at 015 290 6024 and PO Kola at 015 290 6015
POST 22/420 : FINANCIAL CLERK SUPERVISOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SERVICES
REF NO: LIM 08/06/2026 (1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Provincial HRD: Polokwane.
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
licence, for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Management, Monitoring, Evaluation, Reporting Process and Control Process of
the Budget. Administer and Control National Training Budget for Provincial HRD
Limpopo. Administer and control all claims submitted regarding coursed conducted
within Limpopo Province. Administer and control all overtime applications within
the training environment in Limpopo Province. Administer and control all telephone
accounts for members / Officers at Provincial Human Resource Development.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries can be directed to Lt Col Kobe at 015 290 6026, PPO Manoko at 015
290 6131, PO Mphela at 015 290 6024 and PO Kola at 015 290 6015
POST 22/421 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR: PLACEMENT AND RECORDS
REF NO: LIM 09/06/2026 (1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Provincial HRM: Polokwane.
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
licence, for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Assess the certified payroll and duty list information. Administer the enquiries and
amend the biographical information on the PERSAL / PERSAP system. Administer
records of personnel placement on the PERSAL system. Coordinate and facilitate
of acting allowance within the province. Coordinate and facilitate WP1002
applications.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries can be directed to Lt Col Kobe at 015 290 6026, PPO Manoko at 015
290 6131, PO Mphela at 015 290 6024 and PO Kola at 015 290 6015
240
POST 22/422 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR: RECRUITMENT & STAFFING (2
POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106.00 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Capricorn District (Lebowakgomo): LIM 10/06/2026 (1 Post)
Mopani District (Giyani): LIM 11/06/2026 (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
licence for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Recruit employees into the SAPS within the province. Co-ordinate the appointment
of Public Service Act, Police Act (Trainees) and Professionals.Maintain probation
report. Maintain code of conduct for new appointees.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries can be directed to Lt Col Kobe at 015 290 6026, PPO Manoko at 015
290 6131, PO Mphela at 015 290 6024 and PO Kola at 015 290 6015
POST 22/423 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR: MIC SUPPORT REF NO: LIM
12/06/2026 (1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106. per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Corporate Communication and Liaison: Polokwane.
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12/ Senior Certificate/ NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA). At least four (4)
years’ experience in the field of the post. An applicable three (3) year Diploma /
Degree (NQF level 6 or higher as recognized by SAQA) as well as relevant training
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
licence for at least a light motor vehicle will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable
to the Public Service. Good verbal and written communication skills. General
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Power Point, MS Outlook).
Demonstrate competency in acting independently, Professionally, Accountable
and with Credibility. Good verbal and written communication skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Report writing. Presentation Skills, Problem Solving, Sound
Planning, Organising and Administration skills, Strong Analytical Skills and
Facilitation Skills. Be willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate human physical and financial resources for the provincial corporate
communication section. Coordinate financial administration support functions.
Coordinate logistical support functions. Coordinate & manage development &
promotion of corporate identity of the saps.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries can be directed to Lt Col Kobe at 015 290 6026, PPO Manoko at 015
290 6131, PO Mphela at 015 290 6024 and PO Kola at 015 290 6015
POST 22/424 : SECRETARY (6 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Office of the Provincial Head: Financial Services: LIM 13/06/2026 (1 Post)
Office of the Provincial Head: Pro-Active Policing: LIM 14/06/2026 (1 Post)
Office of the DPC: Crime Detection: LIM 15/06/2026 (1 Post)
Office of the Provincial Head: Firearm, liquor, gambling & second hand goods. LIM
16/06/2026 (1 Post)
Office of the Provincial Head: Corporate Communication and Liaison: LIM
17/06/2026 (1 post)
Office of the Station Commander: Burgersfort SAPS: LIM 18/06/2026 (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
241
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : To provide secretarial support functions in the relevant office. Type reports, letters,
memoranda and monitor flow of documents to and from the relevant office. Manage
the diary of the Head of the office for internal and external engagements. Co-
ordinate travel arrangements, including accommodation and subsistence
allowances as well as claims. Maintain an updated filing system in the relevant
office. Distribute correspondence and circulars to the relevant stakeholders and
keep a register of all incoming and outgoing post up to date. Handle routine
correspondence, send and receive e-mails and faxes immediately. Answer and
make telephone calls on behalf of the Head of the office and take messages
professionally. Provide support during meetings and workshops involving the
relevant office. Handle confidential documents.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries can be directed to Lt Col Kobe at 015 290 6026, PPO Manoko at 015
290 6131, PO Mphela at 015 290 6024 and PO Kola at 015 290 6015
POST 22/425 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (12 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Provincial Corporate Communication & Liaison. LIM 19/06/2026 (1 Post)
DPC; Crime Detection: LIM 20/06/2026 (1 Post)
Villa Nora SAPS: LIM 21/06/2026 (1 Post)
Leboeng SAPS: LIM 22/06/2026 (1 Post)
Saselamani SAPS: LIM 23/06/2026 (1 Post)
Provincial SCM – Armourers: LIM 24/06/2026 (1 Post)
Tinmyne SAPS: LIM 25/06/2026 (1 Post)
Matlelerekeng SAPS: LIM 26/06/2026 (1 Post)
Masisi SAPS: LIM 27/06/2026 (1 Post)
Driekop SAPS: LIM 28/06/2026 (1 Post)
Apel SAPS: LIM 29/06/2026 (1 Post)
Lebowakgomo SAPS Garage: LIM 30/06/2026 (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Render administrative support functions to the section. Deal with general
component administrative duties and record keeping. Administer logistical matters
in the component Monitor human and physical resources of the section.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries can be directed to Lt Col Kobe at 015 290 6026, PPO Manoko at 015
290 6131, PO Mphela at 015 290 6024 and PO Kola at 015 290 6015
POST 22/426 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK REF NO: LIM 31/06/2026 (1 POST)
SALARY : R237 453.per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Polokwane SAPS Garage
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Manage and control of the PAS system and SAPS 73 parts store. Responsible for
the procurement and management of all expendable and consumable items.
Compile production reports. Stocktaking. Capturing of invoices and job cards.
Filling.
242
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries can be directed to Lt Col Kobe at 015 290 6026, PPO Manoko at 015
290 6131, PO Mphela at 015 290 6024 and PO Kola at 015 290 6015
POST 22/427 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: LIM 32/06/2026 (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Provincial Legal Services: Polokwane.
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of Grade 12 / Senior Certificate / NCV Level 4 or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA). Relevant courses
in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge, skills and
competencies: General computer literacy skills (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Office,
MS PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Sound planning, organizing, administrative and problem-
solving skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Be
willing to work under pressure and extended hours.
DUTIES : Administer civil claims against the state with prescribed directives. Draft
memorandum in respect of compensation payment.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries can be directed to Lt Col Kobe at 015 290 6026, PPO Manoko at 015
290 6131, PO Mphela at 015 290 6024 and PO Kola at 015 290 6015
POST 22/428 : SECURITY OFFICER (26 POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226. per annum (Level 3)
CENTRE : Seshego VSS: LIM 33/06/2026 (6 Posts)
Sibasa VSS: LIM 34/06/2026 (2 Posts)
Modimolle VSS: LIM 35/06/2026 (4 Posts)
Musina VSS: LIM 36/06/2026 (2 Posts)
Provincial SCM – Armoures: LIM 37/06/2026 (2 Posts)
Provincial SCM: LIM 38/06/2026 (2 Posts)
Provincial Detective Services: LIM 39/06/2026 (6 Posts)
Capricorn District: LIM 40/06/2026 (2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of a Grade 10/ Standard 8/ NCV level 2 certificate/
report (NQF level 2 as recognized by SAQA), for which documentary proof can be
produced when required. Valid Registration with the Private Security Industry
Regulatory Authority (PSIRA). Be in possession of at least a Grade C security
certificate or higher. Not declared unfit to possess a fire-arm. Be willing to undergo
firearm competency training and to maintain firearm competency. Relevant
courses in the field of the post will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license for at least a light motor vehicle will also serve as an added advantage. Be
willing to work shifts and extended hours. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of access control procedures. Knowledge of measures for the control
and movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed security
procedures (e.g., MIS, NISA, Protection of Information Act, etc.) and the authority
of security officers under these documents. Knowledge of the relevant emergency
procedures.
DUTIES : Execute Access Control in terms of the Control of Access to Public Premises and
Vehicles Act (Act No. 53 of 1985). Positive identification of employees, visitors and
contactors at the security access point. Registering of employees, visitors and
contractors, electronic searching of employees, visitors and contractors. Authorize
entry in to the premises to employees, visitors and contractors after complying with
all the legislative requirements, confirm visits with the hosts and ensure escort in
line with the prescripts; Issue admission control cards to visitors and receive them
back. Keep the necessary visitor’s register; Check suppliers, articles and objects,
where necessary, before they are allowed to be brought into the premises to
ensure that the safety of the premises will not be threatened. Patrol buildings and
fenced-off areas. Guard vehicles and equipment in the field – ONLY from a security
point of view. Check all security equipment and facilities and take action, when
necessary. Bring any deficiencies or problems with regard to security matters to
the attention of senior security personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries can be directed to Lt Col Kobe at 015 290 6026, PPO Manoko at 015
290 6131, PO Mphela at 015 290 6024 and PO Kola at 015 290 6015
POST 22/429 : CLEANER (16 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level)
CENTRE : Seshego VSS: LIM 41/06/2026 (2 Posts)
Ritavi SAPS: LIM 42/06/2026 (1 Post)
243
Provincial Detective Services: LIM 43/06/2026 (2 Posts)
Rankin’s Pass SAPS: LIM 44/06/2026 (1 Post)
Mokopane SAPS: LIM 45/06/2026 (1 Post)
Mphephu SAPS: LIM 46/06/2026 (1 Post)
Masisi SAPS: LIM 47/06/2026 (1 Post)
Phaudi SAPS: LIM 48/06/2026 (1 Post)
Rooiberg SAPS: LIM 49/06/2026 (1 Post)
Bulgerivier SAPS: LIM 50/06/2026 (1 Post)
Dennilton SAPS: LIM 51/06/2026 (1 Post)
Matlelerekeng SAPS: LIM 52/06/2026 (1 Post)
Vulaudzi SAPS: LIM 53/06/2026 (1 Post)
Muyexe SAPS: LIM 54/06/2026 (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must display competency in the core functions of the post. Be proficient
in at least English and one other official language. Be a citizen of the Republic of
South Africa of which documentary proof must be furnished on the day of the
interview. Be in possession of ABET Level 4/ Grade 9/ Standard 7/ NQF Level 1
for which documentary proof can be produced when required. Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies. Understanding of how to handle cleaning detergents.
Occupational Health and Safety protocol. Basic literacy, numeracy and
communication skills. Be able to read and write; Ability to interact with other officials
in a professional manner. The ability to operate elementary machines and
equipment; Willing to work extended hours when necessary.
DUTIES : Maintaining of a high level of hygiene in and around the workplace with the cleaning
of the SAPS premises assigned to, which may include either or both inner and
outer parameters; Performing tasks of a routine nature, such as dusting; Polish
furniture and floors. Vacuum carpets and mopping of tile floor; Remove refuse;
Perform maintenance tasks in and around the assigned premises; Clean
bathrooms and kitchens; Safekeeping and handling of a variety of Aids in the
cleaning of the premise; Loading and unloading of goods. Garden maintenance
services; Washing and cleaning of state vehicles, kitchenware and utensils.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries can be directed to Lt Col Kobe at 015 290 6026, PPO Manoko at 015
290 6131, PO Mphela at 015 290 6024 and PO Kola at 015 290 6015
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION
LIMPOPO PROVINCIAL TREASURY
The Limpopo Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity and affirmative action Employer and is committed
to the promotion of equity in terms of the race, gender, and disability through filling of post(s) with
candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representativity in line with numerical
targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants may apply through the following website:
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za or Applicants should be submitted to: Director:
Human Resource Management, Private Bag X 9486, POLOKWANE, 0700 OR
Hand delivered to: ISMINI Towers Building, Office No. GOO2 (Ground Floor)
Registry, 46 Hans van Ransburg Street, POLOKWANE, 0700. All General
enquiries should be directed to Mesdames, Kotze Elizba, Chaka Pearl, Kgadima
Conny, Moremi Hilda & Mr. Nduli J.S. @ (015) 298 7000.
CLOSING DATE : Friday 24th July 2026 @ 16H00. Late applications will not be considered.
NOTE : Failure to comply with the above requirements will result in the disqualification of
the application. The advert will be posted on the following websites
www.limtreasury.gov.za / www.limpopo.gov.za and www.dpsa.gov.za and
Provincial Departments social media Applications must be submitted on new Z83
forms obtainable from all Government Departments or can be downloaded from
www.dpsa.gov.za or www.gov.za. The new Z83 form must be completed in manner
that provides sufficient information about the candidate and the post he or she
applies for by completing all relevant fields. The following must be considered in
relation to the completion of the Z83 by applicants. All the fields in Part A, Part C
and Part D should be completed. In Part B, all fields should be completed in full
except the following: South African applicants need not to provide passport
numbers. If an applicant responds “no” to the question “Are you conducting
business with the State or are you a Director of a Public or Private Company
conducting business with the State?” then the answer to the next question “In the
event that you are employed in the Public Service, you immediately relinquish such
business interests?” can be left blank or indicated as not applicable. A “not
applicable” or blank response will be allowed on the question “If your profession or
occupation requires official registration, provide date and particulars of
registration”; if you are not in possession of such registration. Noting there is limited
space provided for Part E, F & G, applicants often indicate “refer to Curriculum
Vitae (CV) or see attached”, this is acceptable as long as the CV has been attached
and provides the required information. If the information is not provided in the CV,
the applicant may be disqualified. It must be noted that a CV is an extension of the
application of employment Z83, and applicants are accountable for the information
that is provided therein. Applicants currently employed by the public service do
not need to complete Part F as the section is intended for those seeking re-
244
employment, as their prior employment can be verified through their CV. The
declaration should be completed and signed. Applicants must utilize the most
recent Z83 application for employment form as issued by the Minister of Public
Service and Administration in line with Regulation 10 of the Public Service
Regulations, 2016, failure to do so results in disqualifications. Applicants are not
required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on
application but must submit the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. It must be noted
that the CV is an extension of an application of an employment Z83 and applicants
are accountable for the information that is provided therein. The Z83 form must be
completed in the manner that allows the selection committee to assess the quality
of the candidate based on the information that is contained in the form. The
Department will require shortlisted candidates to provide certified copies of their
qualifications and any other relevant document, which must be submitted to HR on
or before the interview date. A specific reference number for the post applied for
must be quoted in the space provided on the new form Z83. Applicants with foreign
qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their qualifications are evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and therefore must submit
the copies of certificates and evidence of evaluation by the SAQA for foreign
qualification if they are invited to attend interviews. Successful incumbents will be
expected to sign a performance agreement within one month after assumption of
duty. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a security clearance and
verification of qualifications. Shortlisted applicants will be required to provide their
original qualification certificates and ID on the day of the interview for verification
purposes. The recommended candidate for appointment will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks, such as Disclosure her/his financial interests, social
media checks, verification checks and certification of claimed qualifications. All
shortlisted candidate for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3)
SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive
capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity.
Assessment of SMS Members shall be conducted using three competency
assessment methods: technical, psychometric, and leadership. To ensure that
potential SMS members have a background on processes and procedures linked
to the SMS, a further requirement for appointment at SMS level will be the
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme (Nyukela)
as endorsed by the National School of Government with effect from 1st April 2020.
This is a Public Service specific training programme which will be applicable for
appointments at SMS level. The link for the completion of the pre-entry certificate
is as follows: www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme.
Individuals who have completed the course already, and who are therefore in
possession of a certificate are welcome to submit such. However, all short-listed
candidates will be required to have completed the certificate and submit such upon
appointment. All shortlisted candidates for other posts shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical
exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. Correspondence will
be limited to short-listed candidates only, due to the large number of applications
we envisage to receive and if you have not heard from us within 90 days of the
closing date, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. However,
should there be any dissatisfaction, applicants are hereby advised to, within 90
days, request reasons from the Department for any administrative action which has
adversely affected them in terms of section 5, sub-section 1 and 2 of the Promotion
of Administrative Justice Act 3 of 2000. The Department reserves the right not to
make any appointment to the post advertised. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. NB! Candidates who
previously applied for the re-advertised vacant posts are encouraged to re-apply.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 22/430 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL SYSTEMS IMPLEMENTATION REF NO LPT/441
Branch Financial Governance
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum All-inclusive package which can be structured according to
the individual’s needs as guided by the Department of Public Service and
Administration (DPSA) prescripts) (Level 13)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 7 qualification in Computer Science / Systems Development /
Information Technology / Financial Information Systems / Business Informatics /
Business Analysis / Information Systems or related field as recognized by the
SAQA. 5 years’ working experience at a middle / senior managerial level in
Information Communication Technology (ICT) Systems Development field. Valid
vehicle driver’s license (with exception of persons with disabilities). Core &
Processes Competencies: - Strategic Capability and Leadership. People
245
Management and Empowerment. Programme and Project Management. Financial
Management. Planning & Organising. Policy Analysis and Development. Time
Management. Change Management. Knowledge Management. Service Delivery
Innovation (SDI). Problem-solving and Analysis. Client orientation and Customer
focus. Communication. Honesty and Integrity. Ability to Manage and oversee
project implementation processes and activities. Sound and in-depth knowledge of
ICT Operations, Systems Development, ICT Governance & Programme / Project
Management & related ICT Regulations. Ability to convert business requirements
into ICT technical requirements using relevant technology. Understanding of
Promotion of Access of Information Act (PAIA) and Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA). Systems Development. Business Analyst. Project
Management. ICT software solutions. Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Manage the development and implementation of financial systems in Limpopo
Provincial Department’s. Manage continuous systems improvement and
innovation in the financial \ management environment. Manage the data and
business analysis requirements documents. Develop business case, scope, and
requirements documents. Review new system requests assessments and advice.
Conduct research on implementation approaches strategies. Develop assessment
reports. System Development Projects Management. Review Develop project
implementation plans. Conduct benchmark exercise on financial systems. Render
advisory services and ensure effective planning and implementation of financial
systems. Identify gaps in the current transversal systems and propose solutions or
enhancements to the supervisor. Compile and submit monthly, quarterly, and
annual system development reports to the supervisor. Ensure adherence to ICT
practices for systems. Analyse request on the new financial systems and
enhancements in the departments. Develop a business case to substantiate the
recommendation for acquiring new financial systems. Develop quarterly reports.
Ensure provision of secretarial services for the finical systems development
projects. Coordinate the implementation of financial systems in the province.
Collaborate in the planning, design, development as well as deployment of new
applications and enhancements to existing applications. Manage financial systems
service delivery to the department and reengineering of existing business
processes. Conduct post-implementation analysis and support on newly
implemented systems. Draft / review a post-implementation and support reports.
Review and improve on current business processes. Analyse the current
environment and identify areas for business process improvements. Map current
business processes that incorporate financial systems according to the Toolkit on
Public Service Business Process Mapping. Prepare quarterly cluster audit reports.
Ensure the provision of management information and Business intelligence (Data
Analytics). Manage the provision and analysis of financial systems audit reports.
Provision of data and information upon request within standards. Ensuring the
production and timely distribution of various required business information
analyses and reports. Ensure improvement on Business process mapping.
Manage external service providers. Develop operational leadership / management
of Human Resources. Manage leave as per leave plans. Orientate subordinates
on the Performance Agreement. Complete Performance Agreement with
subordinates. Conduct bi-annual reviews. Promotes transformation within the
directorate and implements performance improvement suggestions scheme.
Provide corrective measures in terms of deviation. Operationalize and
communicate the vision and mission for the directorate. Final annual reviews of
subordinates signed on time at the end of the financial year.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Elizba Kotze Contact No. 015 298 7000
POST 22/431 : DIRECTOR: SCM GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE REF NO LPT/339
Branch Asset Liabilities and Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum All-inclusive package which can be structured according to
the individual’s needs as guided by the Department of Public Service and
Administration (DPSA) prescripts)( Level 13)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 7 Qualification in Supply Chain Management / Financial Management /
Accounting or related field as recognized by the SAQA. 5 years’ working
experience at a middle / senior managerial level in broader Supply Chain
Environment. Certification in Supply Chain Management will be an added
advantage. Valid vehicle driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disabilities). Core & Processes Competencies: - Strategic Capability and
Leadership. People Management and Empowerment. Programme and Project
Management. Financial Management. Planning & Organising. Policy Analysis and
Development. Time Management. Change Management. Knowledge
Management. Service Delivery Innovation (SDI). Problem-solving and Analysis.
Client orientation and Customer focus. Communication. Honesty and Integrity.
Ability to Manage and oversee project implementation processes and activities.
Extensive knowledge of the PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury Regulations, National and
Provincial SCM policies, and relevant case law. Knowledge of public sector fraud
246
and corruption prevention frameworks (e.g., PRECCA, Protected Disclosures Act).
Strategic Leadership: Ability to translate legislative requirements into practical,
risk-based compliance strategies. Analytical. Thinking: High proficiency in data
analysis, identifying red flags, and interpreting complex procurement scenarios.
Legal Drafting: Skill in drafting policies, circulars, and legal opinions on Supply
Chain Management matters. Governance and Risk Management. Stakeholder
Management: Excellent ability to engage and influence senior officials, auditors,
and law enforcement. Consequence Management: Ability to apply impartial and
firm decision-making regarding transgressions.
DUTIES : Manage the Strategic SCM Governance and Capacity building. Manage the
development, implementation, and review, of the provincial SCM governance
framework, policies, standard operating procedures (SOP’s). Provide input into the
development of SCM related governance policy, norms, standards, frameworks,
and guidelines. Roll out all SCM related policies and procedures to provincial
departments and public entities. Facilitate the design and delivery of a provincial
training and capacity - building program for SCM practitioners and bid committee
members on governance, and compliance requirements for the provincial
department and public Entities. Provide advisory services to provincial department
and public entities. Responding to request for advice / complaints on SCM matters.
Manage SCM Compliance Monitoring, Analysis & Assurance. Establish and
manage a provincial SCM Compliance monitoring plan; conduct proactive and
reactive compliance reviews, SCM Audits action plans, and investigations into
SCM processes (bid Committees & contract). Ensure SCM Monitoring and
Reporting. Manage the development and implementation of a system for the
monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the SCM monitoring framework.
Manage the monitoring of, and reporting on, the implementation and progress of
the SCM monitoring framework through quarterly SCM compliance assessments
of provincial departments and public entities. Prepare comprehensive SCM
governance and compliance reports for the Head of Department, Provincial
Technical Committee on Finance (PTCF), Provincial HOD’s Forum, Audit
Committees and their clusters, and Provincial Legislature Committees. SCM
Compliance Risk Assessment and Monitoring (SCM CRAM). Risk Management &
Mitigation. Identify systemic SCM risk, fraud vulnerabilities, and non-compliance
trends in collaboration with provincial departments and public entities. Provide
expert advice and develop intervention strategies in consultation with relevant
organs of state to strengthen internal controls and prevent irregular, fruitless,
wasteful, and unauthorized expenditure. Identify areas for improvement and assist
organs of state to develop improvement plans. Monitoring the implementation of
improvement plans. Manage Human, Physical and Financial Resources in
accordance with relevant directives and legislation. Formulate and manage the
directorate’s budget in line with its strategic objectives. Monitor and report on the
utilization of equipment. Evaluate and monitor performance of employees. Ensure
capacity and development of the directorate’s personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Elizba Kotze Contact No. 015 298 7000.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/432 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PERFORMANCE &
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP (PPP) REF NO LPT/261
Directorate Provincial Infrastructure Performance & Public Private Partnership
(PPP)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (All-inclusive package which can be structured according to
the individual’s needs as guided by the Department of Public Service and
Administration (DPSA) prescripts) (Level 11)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 7 qualification in the Built Environment (Engineering, Quantity
Surveying, Architecture etc), or related field as recognized by SAQA. 5 years’
experience within the field of which 3 years’ experience at junior managerial level
in Infrastructure Management. Experience in existing guidelines such as IDMS,
FIDPM, CIDB Regulations, etc. Experience in Budget processes for infrastructure
will be an added advantage. Valid vehicle driver’s license (with the exception of
persons with disabilities). Knowledge & Skills: - Extensive knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the public service policies
and procedures such as, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Division of
Revenue Act and Treasury Regulations. Public Service Act. Knowledge of
Financial Management and Project Management. Working knowledge of the
functioning of National / Provincial as well as Local Government. Basic knowledge
of Microsoft Office Applications. Managerial functions. Finance. Human Resource
matters. Planning and organizing. Compilation of reports.
Technical/standards/procedures. Communicate at all levels. Ability to interpret and
apply policy. Analytical and innovative thinking. Research. Report writing.
Workshop presentation and facilitation. Ability to operate computer. Strategic
Capability and Leadership. Organizing. Programme and Project Management.
247
Conflict Management. People Management. Financial Management. Change
Management. Policy formulation. Adaptability during changes to meet the goals.
Change/ diversity management.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of infrastructure funding frameworks such as the
Budget Facility for Infrastructure (BFI) and Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs)
across Provincial Departments (PDs) and Provincial Public Entities. Prepare and
manage infrastructure budgets in line with work in progress, contractual
commitments, cost norms, and Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
guidelines. Support Provincial Departments in preparing, submitting, and verifying
infrastructure reports by issuing reminders, providing technical guidance, and
ensuring adherence to reporting requirements. Facilitate the rollout and
implementation of the Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS) and
provide ongoing technical support to PDs and IAs. Assist PDs in capturing
infrastructure budgets, expenditure, and performance information on the
Infrastructure Reporting Model (IRM), ensuring alignment with In-Year Monitoring
(IYM) and Basic Accounting System (BAS) data. Analyse infrastructure projects,
budgets, and expenditure trends, and compile reports with recommendations to
improve performance and address implementation challenges. Provide technical
support and inputs to Departmental Infrastructure Coordinating Committees
(DICC), Infrastructure, Technical Management Committee (ITMC), and
Infrastructure Technical Committees (ITC) meetings, including preparation of
reports and follow-up on action items. Support PDs in the compilation and review
of infrastructure plans (UAMPs, IPMPs, IPSs), ensuring compliance with guidelines
and alignment to budget allocations. Assist with the preparation and submission of
MTEF infrastructure budgets, including completion of budget databases and
contributions to MTEC reports. Monitor and analyse infrastructure procurement
plans, track progress, identify delays, and recommend corrective measures to
support timely delivery of projects. Validate physical and financial project
performance through expenditure reviews, site visits, and reporting on progress
and variances. Support the assessment of departmental acceleration plans and
monitor compliance with the Framework for Infrastructure Delivery and
Procurement Management (FIDPM). Assist in promoting effective management,
utilization, and maintenance of infrastructure assets, including support in
developing maintenance plans and budgets for immovable assets. Provide
technical input on funding sources, procurement strategies, and delivery
mechanisms, including support on PPP initiatives and alternative funding
opportunities. Participate in research, benchmarking, and analysis to improve
infrastructure delivery and provide inputs to relevant forums, committees, and
reporting platforms. Compile monthly and quarterly infrastructure performance
reports for submission to Provincial and National Treasury, highlighting key issues
and recommendations.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/433 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO LPT/44
Directorate Human Resource Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (All-inclusive package which can be structured according to
the individual’s needs as guided by the Department of Public Service and
Administration (DPSA) prescripts) (Level 11)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Labour Relations or related field as recognised by
SAQA. 5 years’ experience within the field of which 3 years’ experience at junior
managerial level in Labour Relations Management. Valid vehicle driver’s license
(with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge & Skills: - Knowledge of
the legislative framework governing the Public Service such as, Labour Relations
Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Employment Equity Act, Promotion
of Administrative Justice Act, Promotion of Access of Information Act. Knowledge
and understanding of collective agreements, CCMA rules and labour court
processes. Ability to interpret and apply policy. Analytical and innovative thinking.
Research. Report writing. Workshop presentation and facilitation. Ability to operate
Computer. Negotiation skills. Leadership. Organizing. Project Management.
Conflict Management. Financial Management. Strategic Management. Policy
formulation. Adaptability during changes to meet the goals. Change / diversity
management. Planning, Staffing needs.
DUTIES : Coordinate, advise, monitor, support and evaluate implementation of grievance
rules, Disciplinary Code and Procedure, Dispute Resolution Procedure Councils
and Chambers Resolutions in the Department. Conduct a survey on the status of
grievance rules, Disciplinary Code and Procedure, Dispute Procedure Councils
and Chambers Resolutions in the department. Advise the HOD on grievance rules,
misconduct, disputes, and resolutions. Collect statistics on grievances, misconduct
and disputes and analyse the trend. Compile a consolidated report on grievances,
misconduct, and disputes for submission to Management and other relevant
248
stakeholders. Make recommendations to the HOD on intervention Strategies.
Develop intervention strategies to address the challenges. Coordinate the flow of
information on grievances, misconduct, disputes, and resolutions to the key
stakeholders. Manage and facilitate grievances, misconduct cases, dispute
resolution and capacity building in the department. Facilitate allegations of
misconduct from supervisors and or managers. Secure attendance of witnesses to
be present at the hearings. Advise the HOD on all matters related to labour
remedial service / misconduct cases. Recommend the appointments of employer
representative and chairperson of the disciplinary hearing. Represent the employer
during disciplinary hearings. Draft allegations in terms of clauses 6 and 7 of the
disciplinary code and procedure, PSCBS Resolution 1 of 2003, and inform the
alleged offender about his / her rights. Communicate the outcome of the
disciplinary hearing with the alleged offender. Preside over disciplinary hearings in
terms of clause 7.3 of code. Liaise with the offending employee to submit an
appeal. Refer the appeal to the Executive Authority. Receive complaints and
grievances lodged including referrals of disputes declared. Analyse issues in
disputes surrounding grievances and disputes. Advise and seek mandate from
HOD for resolution of disputes. Advise management on the validity of the
complaints and or grievances. Investigate the grievance and seek a fair resolution
thereof. Advise the aggrieved and management on the status of the grievance.
Advise the aggrieved employee on the outcome thereof if finalized. Conduct
research on the subject for capacity development. Conduct capacity development
and compile a report to the HOD thereof. Coordinate, monitor and evaluate the
implementation of collective agreements in the department. Facilitate and monitor
implementation of collective agreements concluded in bargaining councils.
Coordinate, monitor and participate in the activities of task teams established in
bargaining councils. Conduct capacity building on collective agreements. Report
to the HOD and Management on the implementation of collective agreement.
Coordinate, manage and monitor public service industrial action in the department.
Manage and monitor strike action in the department. Develop a strike management
plan. Establish a departmental task team to manage the strike action. Develop a
contingency plan to minimize the harmful effects of strike action on service delivery.
Collect statistics on employees affected by the strike action. Compile a report to
OTP and other relevant stakeholders on the management of strikes. Coordinate,
monitor, facilitate and evaluate capacity building on grievance rules and
disciplinary code and procedure in the department. Coordinate capacity building
sessions for the department. Organise capacity building documents or manuals on
Grievance Rules, Disciplinary Code and Procedure and other relevant
resolutions/collective agreements. Develop capacity building programmes. Advise
and recommend to the HOD on Labour Relations capacity building needs.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/434 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED PLANNING, RESEARCH & POLICY
COORDINATION REF NO LPT/24
Directorate Strategic Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (All-inclusive package which can be structured according to
the individual’s needs as guided by the Department of Public Service and
Administration (DPSA) prescripts) (Level 11)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Public Management / Strategic Management or related
field as recognised by SAQA. 5 years’ experience within the field of which 3 years’
experience at junior managerial level in Integrated Planning and Research. Valid
vehicle driver’s license (with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge &
Skills: - Knowledge of legislative framework governing the public service PSR,
PFMA, Treasury regulations. Deep knowledge and understanding of the
framework for Strategic Plans and Annual Performance Plans (APP) and
Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) framework. Knowledge and experience of Theory
of Change and Situational Analysis. Strategic thinking and capability. Customer
and client focus. Service delivery innovation. Good communication skill.
Stakeholder engagement. Networking. Interpersonal skill. Analytical skills.
Planning, and Organising Skill. Change and Knowledge Management.
DUTIES : Coordinate and integrate all Department planning activities. Support the
development of planning frameworks within the department. Facilitate the process
to develop the medium- and long-term provincial plans and monitor the
implementation process. Ensure alignment of sectoral strategies plans, policies
and service delivery programs in the Department. Manage an internal engagement
process with different stakeholders on the planning process and outputs to ensure
alignment and maximise buy in into the provincial plans. Support collaboration with
national development and other spheres of government on the development of
provincial and local plans. Manage the development of all Departmental strategic
planning documents in line with DPME guidelines and relevant prescripts. Manage
logistical arrangements for departmental and branch strategic planning sessions.
249
Ensure development, implementation of strategic and operational planning
schedule in line with mandated government timeframes. Analyse strategic plans
and annual performance plans from branches for consistency and alignment to
government priorities and planning frameworks. Coordinate the compilation and
consolidation of strategic plans and annual performance plans from various
branches into unified departments plans. Perform secretariat services during
strategic planning sessions. Manage the development and review of Departmental
policies. Conduct policy research on new policy proposal of the department.
Monitor the status of departmental policies and ensure timely review of outdated
policies. Ensure alignment of departmental policies with national policies and
public service standards and norms. Facilitate policy consultation and engagement
with Policy owners to ensure an aligned policy development process. Support all
branches regarding policy review processes within the department. Manage the
entire administration process related to policy development / review. Manage
Human and Physical Resources in the sub-directorate. Manage the performance
and development of employees within the sub-directorate. Develop and review
operational plans for the sub-directorate. Evaluate, monitor performance and
appraisal of employees. Develop and ensure adherence to policies and service
delivery standards. Provide inputs to the budget process and ensure expenditure
in accordance with applicable prescripts. Ensure proper management of asset
within the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/435 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RECORDS & KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT REF NO
LPT/99
Directorate Records Management & Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (All-inclusive package which can be structured according to
the individual’s needs as guided by the Department of Public Service and
Administration (DPSA) prescripts) (Level 11)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Public Administration / HR Records / Archival Studies
or related field as recognised by SAQA. 5 years’ experience within the field of which
3 years’ experience at junior managerial level in paper-based records management
/ electronic records management field. Valid vehicle driver’s license (with exception
of persons with disabilities). Knowledge & Skills: - Sound and in-depth knowledge
of relevant prescripts, application of human records resources as well as
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service such as
Managerial functions. Finance. Human Resource matters. Planning & organising.
Compilation of reports. Analysing. Computer. Standards / Procedures. Needs and
priorities of the Department. Ability to interpret and apply policy. Analytical and
innovative thinking. Report writing. Workshop presentation and facilitation. Ability
to operate computer. Leadership. Project Management. Conflict Management.
Financial Management. Strategic Management. Policy Formulation. Adapting
during changes to meet the goals. Change / diversity Management.
DUTIES : Ensure the development, implementation, and maintenance of records
management systems. Develop, implement, and maintain records management
procedure manual. Develop, implement, and maintain records management policy.
Develop, implement, maintain and manage General File plan. Manage, facilitate
record inspection and audit to determine if records are filed correctly and has been
classified to provide quick and efficient retrieval. Manage the implementation of
authorized disposal and retention of records. Manage and facilitate the purchasing
of necessary resources to enable records management to fulfil its functions.
Ensure that the movement and location of the records standards is being adhered
to so that records can be easily retrieved. Manage access controls in the records
storage arears. Develop, implement, maintain, and manage disaster recovery plan
for the protection of vital records and monitor the implementation thereof. Ensure
that the development, implementation of records management capacity building
programmes are in place and safekeeping of general files. Establish competency
framework to identify the skills and knowledge required by all records management
staff. Conduct audit of all records management practices against the legal
requirements and the records management policy. Manage records management
responsibilities of all records management staff are set out in performance
agreements. Develop and manage the implementation of training Programme for
records management staff. Manage all induction training in the allocation of file
reference numbers according to the file both paper-based and electronic records.
Ensure that a registry procedure manual is updated regularly. Manage the
provision of registry procedure manual and file plans are available for information
purpose to all staff members. Ensure that all worn out files covers has been
redressed. Manage the provision of folio numbers to all records. Manage the
development and implementation of General Records movement file register.
Ensure that information security on general records is promoted. Develop training
manuals and presentations. Conduct training sessions on records management.
250
Conduct records management awareness sessions. Training Registry Staff on
records management systems i.e., File Plans, Procedure Manual and Records
Management Policy. Ensure that information can be identified and retrieved when
required by providing well-structured record classification and record keeping
systems. Manage the retrieval of information required for all requested in
accordance with Promotional of Access to Information Act. Ensure that PAIA
committee meetings are arranged, and minutes taken. Develop compliance reports
and submit them to the Director records Management for finalization that need to
be submitted to the Office of the Premier (Transversal Unit), Minister of Justice and
Constitutional Development and Human Rights Commission. Develop compliance
reports and submit them to the Director Records Management for finalization that
need to be submitted to the Minister of Justice and Constitutional Development for
publicizing on the Government Gazette. Manage the implementation of general file
plan and registry procure manual to all districts is being adhered to Conduct regular
inspections of all records storage area to ensure that proper access control are in
place. Design staff file plan in accordance with National Archive and Provincial
Archivist requirements. Ensure that implementation of files opened are stored
according to the file plan, procedure manual and classification system. Ensure that
the general file plan and record are storage system is maintained regularly.
Develop and implement schedule for records other than the correspondence
system. Provide inputs to the system administrator on how the file plan should be
implemented electronically. Ensure that schedules pf all applicants for the
advertised by the department are in place. Identification of records management
systems needs. Collection and soliciting of inputs from record practitioners on the
development of records management system. Submit inputs for the ratification of
records management systems to the Director Records Management. Ensure that
users comply with the requirement of the record management system. Manage the
receiving, transfer of general files and facilitate the programme of systematics
disposal. Ensure that records are only disposed of in terms of a written disposal
authority issued by the Head of Department and Provincial Archivist. Apply the
general disposal authority on all records not common to all offices. Apply for
disposal authority on all records not covered by the general disposal authority in
the custody of the Office by submitting the file plan to the provincial Archivist and
Schedule for records other than correspondence system. Review the retention
periods of all records before distraction. Ensure the retention periods for the non-
archival records are in line with legislative framework. Review the retention periods
of all records before destruction. Ensure that non-archival records due for
destruction are destroyed at least one year. Ensure that records are only destroyed
in terms of the applicable disposal authorities. Ensure that no archival records are
destroyed. Ensure that no transfer of records made without the prior consent of the
Head of the Department. Liaison with the office of CFO with regard to records
keeping of financial records and tender documents. Ensure that all files of all newly
appointed tender contracts are opened. Attending to all files ready to be
transferred. Develop and maintain transfer-in and transfer-out general records
registry. Making follow-ups of all files to be transferred into our department. Apply
the general disposal authorities on records common to all offices. Ensure that a
register of all disposal authorities issued on the records of the office is kept and
updated. Ensure that disposal authority on all records not covered by general
disposal authority are listed and considered for disposal. Ensure that destruction
certificate is maintained. Facilitate transfer of records to the Archival Repository.
Ensure that national minimum information requirements are complied with and
monitor the safekeeping of records thereof. Conduct regular inspections to ensure
that the storage of all records in all formats and media conforms to the legal
requirements and to the storage standards for that specific media type. Conduct
regular inspections of all records storage areas to ensure that proper access
controls are in place. Submit copies all inspection reports to the Head of
Department and Provincial Archivist. Ensure that correct procedures according to
security classification policy are applied. Supervise Registry Staff on proper filing
of records according to classification policy are applied. Listing of records ready for
disposal and retention. Implement and supervise the movement and location of the
records so that records can be easily retrieved. Implement access controls in the
records storage arears. Ensure that correct procedures according to security
classification policy are applied. Develop, maintain and updating of control registry.
Provide knowledge management and library management services. Manage the
current knowledge management practices as well as design new knowledge
distribution policies and encourage use of the new practices. Analysing the
effectiveness of the new knowledge management programs by observing its usage
and evaluate its impact in terms of the organisational benefits. Interact with staff
members, unit managers and the clients. Act as a mediator to answer the queries
of the clients and staff about the knowledge management products and practices.
Utilize the knowledge base resources and design a training module for the staff
and clients to help them access the knowledge management tools. Being
responsible for the analysis of social networks and formation of communities of
practice within the organization. Encourage the staff and workers to share
251
knowledge effectively and efficiently. Develop compliance reports and submit them
to the Director Records Management for finalization that need to be submitted to
Office of the Premier (Transversal Unit). Mainstreaming Knowledge Management
Process. Answer routine inquiries and refer customers in need of professional
assistance to librarian / Director Records Management & Auxiliary Services.
Maintain records of items received, stored, issued, returned and file catalogue
cards according to system used. Perform clerical activities such as filing, typing,
word processing, photocopying, and mailing out material and mail sorting.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/436 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSVERSAL CONTRACT MANAGEMENT REF NO:
LPT/353
Directorate: Transversal Contract Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (All-inclusive package which can be structured according to
the individual’s needs as guided by the Department of Public Service and
Administration (DPSA) prescripts) (Level 11)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 7 qualification in Supply Chain Management / Financial Management or
related field as recognized by SAQA. 5 years’ experience within the field of which
3 years’ functional experience at junior managerial level / Assistant Director level
in Transversal Contract Management or related field. Valid vehicle driver’s license
(with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge & Skills: Knowledge of
variety of work ranges; procedures and legislative frameworks such as: Sound and
in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of Supply Chain
Management as well as understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service such as: Guide to Accounting Officer in Supply Chain Management,
Treasury Instruction and Practice Notes, Preferential Procurement Act, B-BBEE
Act, Administrative Justice Act, Promotion of Access of Information Act. Good
communication skills. Service delivery innovation. Client orientation and customer
focus. Computer literacy. Analytical and interpretative skills. Change and
knowledge management.
DUTIES : Administration of commodity analysis. Coordination of spend analysis.
Coordination of need analysis. Coordination of benchmarking exercise and market
research. Management of arrangement of new Transversal Contract (s).
Coordination of nomination and appointment of bid committee members.
Coordination of development of Bid Specification. Coordination of Bid
advertisement. Coordination of bid evaluation report. Coordination of Bid
Adjudication report and awards. Coordination of contracting and rollouts.
Management of existing transversal contracts. Coordination of stakeholder reports.
Administration of existing contracts. Coordination of provincial SCM assessments
in provincial departments and participating public entities. Coordination of
supplier’s performance report. Management of resources within the directorate.
Compilation and signing of performance agreements. Compilation and signing of
performance review. Submission of the signed performance agreements to the
PMDS unit. Submission of the signed performance reviews to the PMDS unit.
Compilation of activity-based costing. Complication of cash flow projections.
Compilation of procurement plans. Analysis of monthly expenditure reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/437 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSVERSAL RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO
LPT/385 / LPT/388 & LPT/389 (X 3 POSTS)
Directorate Transversal Risk Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 7 qualification in Risk Management or related field as recognized by
SAQA. 3 years’ functional experience in Risk Management or related Field. Valid
vehicle driver’s license (with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge &
Skills: Planning, Coordinating & Organizing. Managerial functions. Secretarial
Functions. Projects Coordination. Finance. Compilation of reports. Research \
analysing. Computer. Ability to interpret Treasury directives/PFMA and Treasury
Regulations. Decision Taking skills. Conflict Management. Analytical and
Innovative. Report writing skills. MS Word. Leadership skills. Project Management.
Financial Management. Strategic Management. Policy formulation and
Implementation. Adaptability to Changes. Diversity management. Minutes taking.
Meeting Coordination. Communication Skills.
DUTIES : Assess compliance with public sector risk management framework within votes
and public entities. Send reminders to CROs for updating progress in the Risk
Management software. Draw the quarterly reports from the system and analyse.
Compile the draft analysis reports and provide the recommendations with respect
to gaps identified. Prepare the analysis report for editing by immediate supervisor.
252
Monitor and assess risk profiles from votes and public entities. Send reminders to
CROS for updating progress in the Risk Management software. Draw the report
from the system and analyse progress with respect to implementation of the action
plans by institutions. Compile the risk profile progress report and provide
recommendations with respect to gaps identified and prepare the analysis report
for editing by immediate supervisor. Assist with the monitoring of a provincial risk
profile. Send reminders to CROs for updating progress in the system. Draw the
progress report from the system and analyse. Compile the progress analysis report
and provide recommendations with respect to gap identified. Compile and prepare
the analysis report for editing by immediate supervisor. Provide support on the
utilization of risk management software. Assist in organizing system trainings in
line with the identified training needs. Assist in arranging risk management
software (Barn Owl) meetings to provide support to all system end-users especially
Barn Owl champions and RMC members. Assist in conducting quarterly Barn Owl
utilization analysis reports. Assist in providing administrative support to centralized
independent RMC chairpersons within the province. Assist in organizing RMC
chairperson’s induction course. Assist in facilitating RMC meetings scheduled of
the province. Assist in requesting BAS from financial accounting and prepare
payments for independent Chairpersons. Assist in facilitating the submissions of
chairperson’s quarterly reports to LPT and AC. Assist in providing secretariat
functions for the centralized RMC chairperson structure. Assist with the
coordination of the activities of provincial risk management forum and Barn OWL
Meetings. Send invites to the votes and public entities (institutions)as well as
external members of the forum e.g., National Treasury, Professional bodies etc.
Prepare and circulate forum packages (presentations, agendas, and attendance
registers). Secure venues and catering for Forum meetings. Send reminders to the
external / internal stakeholders' presenters. Take and compile the Forum minutes
and circulate the draft minutes to Forum members for further inputs after the
meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/438 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HR PLANNING & ESTABLISHMENT REF NO LPT/32
Directorate Human Resource Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 9)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Human Resource Management or related field as
recognised by SAQA. 3 years functional working experience in Human Resource
Management or related field. PERSAL Training Results or Certificate. Knowledge
& Skills: Sound and in-depth Knowledge of HR prescripts. Public Service
Regulations. Public Service Act. PFMA. Treasury regulations as well as the
legislative framework governing the public service. Knowledge of Change Control
system (SCC). Knowledge of variety of work ranges and procedures such. as:
Managerial functions, Finance. Human Resource matters. Planning and
organizing. Compilation of reports. Research \ analysing. Knowledge of PERSAL
System. Ability to interpret and apply policy. Analytical and innovative thinking.
Basic Research. Report writing. Workshop presentation and Facilitation. Ability to
operate Computer such as (Excel, PowerPoint & MS Word). Leadership.
Organizing. Project Management. Conflict Management. Financial Management.
Strategic Management. Policy formulation. Adaptability during changes to meet the
goal.
DUTIES : Coordinate establishment and post control. Monitor the capturing and maintenance
of approved posts on PERSAL Coordinate accurate placement into approved posts
both on PERSAL and in the staff establishment (placement). Monitor the creation
of approved vacancies on PERSAL. Ensure maintenance establishment into.
posts/ responsibility linkages/ objective linkages. Coordinate engagement with
Management Accounting on SCOA related matters. Compile, analyse, and submit
establishment control reports for management. Coordinate placement of staff in
line with organisational changes. M‑onitor the correct placement of employees in
line with approved organisational structures and changes. Monitor terminations,
transfers, and movements through registers and verification on PERSAL. .Ensure
that an updated placement report is readily available. Provide statistical information
on current staff availability, staff turnover, equality, from PERSAL and Vulindlela to
Excel and other report to the unit and management within department. Monitoring
and reporting on vacancies. Facilitate PERSAL cleanup strategy and maintain
posts on PERSAL Verify and validate funded vacant posts. Identify funded vacant
posts for filling after approval by management. Monthly, quarterly, annual reporting
of staff turnover. Prepare statistics as and when requested. Analysis on post
establishment as and when needed on restructuring. Coordinate hr planning and
statistical reporting. Coordinate the collection, analysis, and reporting of HR
statistics for HR Plans, HR Implementation Reports, and Annual Adjusted HR
Plans. Consolidate HR Plans and HR Plan Implementation reports for submission
to the Office of the Premier (OTP) and DPSA. Design, analyse, and present HR
253
oversight, compliance, and management reports. Provide secretariat and technical
support to the departmental HR Planning committees. Liaise with internal and
external stakeholders and represent the department at provincial forums. Assist
with statistical information to consolidate comprehensive reports such Quarterly
Review, Compliance Report, Monthly HR Implementation repot. Render persal
user services. Approve and authorise PERSAL transactions. Ensure loading and
maintenance of establishment data. Create and maintain objective tables,
responsibility tables, and component tables. Maintain pay point allocations in terms
of Payroll instructions. Link objectives and responsibilities in terms of SCOA.
Implement linkage change.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/439 : SYSTEM SUPPORT ADMINISTRATORS: REF NO’S LPT/453 & LPT457 (X 2
POSTS)
Directorate Systems Administration
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Financial Management or related field as recognised
by SAQA. 2 years functional working experience in Financial Management or
related field. Knowledge & Skills: Knowledge of variety of work ranges and
procedures such as, Finance. Planning and organizing. Needs and priorities of
stakeholders. Public Administration. Compilation of management reports. Ability to
interpret and apply policy. Financial Management. Analytical and innovative
thinking. Research. Report writing. Workshop presentation and facilitation. Ability
to operate computer. Leadership. Project Management. Conflict Management.
Financial Management. Strategic Management. Policy Formulation. Adaptability
during changes to meet the goals. Change / diversity management.
DUTIES : Provide support on Transversal financial systems. Provide functional support to
Transversal Financial Systems users. Register System Change requests from
departments with National Treasury. Making follow ups with National Treasury on
systems issues. Support departments to process opening journals, reconciliation
of under / overspending and revenue accrual. Support with clearance of controls /
suspense accounts and effective closure of books. Facilitate user account
management. Provide support on effective utilization of financial systems. Provide
assistance to users in the interpretation of reports. Implement disbursement of
payments to suppliers according to the financial year schedule and requested
special disbursements. Request reports pertaining to disbursement. Provide ad
hoc reports as when requested. Facilitate and monitor implementation of system
and enhancement. Monitor user access activities. Assist in the implementation of
RACF reports. Implement calls life cycle. Administer logged calls via emails,
telephone and walk in on ITSM. Assist with the investigation of the logged calls
using other mechanisms to derives to the solutions. Update calls with possible
solutions. Forward solutions to clients. Close the calls once the client has
confirmed success of the solutions. Provide support to management. Facilitate
forum meetings for Systems Controllers. Request specific reports on monthly basis
that requires ongoing attention by the Departments. Request Auditors download
reports for all Departments. Liaise with National Treasury about systems related
matters. Provide on job training for new functionalities.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/440 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: SCM CAPRICORN SERVICES REF NO
LPT/365
Directorate SCM Client Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Financial Management / Supply Chain Management or
related field as recognised by SAQA. 2 years functional working experience in
Supply Chain Management or related field. Knowledge & Skills: Knowledge of
variety of work ranges and procedures such as, Knowledge of Public Sector SCM
Policies and procedures. Technical / Standards / Procedures. Finance. Planning
and organizing. Needs and priorities of the Departments. Legal background. Ability
to interpret and apply policy. Analytical and Communication. Ability to operate
computer. Adaptability during changes to meet the goals. Financial Management
Change / diversity management. Policy Formulation. Leadership. Research.
Strategic Management.
DUTIES : Provide tendering advisory support services to SMME’s. Provision of information,
advise, training and assistance to all suppliers on CSD during Provincial events.
Facilitation of business information access to suppliers with other Government
institutions for supplier’s empowerment purposes in the districts. Assist walk-ins
with completion of tender documents on daily basis. Mobilize stakeholders for
254
community outreach documents on daily basis. Mobilize stakeholders for
community outreach tendering workshops and roadshows. Assist with logistics
during tendering workshop. Record keeping. Provide support on -line registration
of suppliers on the NCSD. Assist walk-in suppliers with new online registration into
the National Central Supplier Database (NCSD). Assist walk -in suppliers with the
update of their profile on NCSD. Handling of CSD registration queries from
suppliers through the District NCSD Call Centre. Keep and maintain internal
controls registers. Keep and maintain stores control registers. Keep and maintain
equipment’s usage control registers. Maintain Registry control filling system. Keep
and maintain transport control registry. Implement the Departmental PMDS.
Signing of MOU with supervisor. Quarterly and annual performance reviews with
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/441 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: REVENUE, DEBT & BANK RECONCILIATION
REF NO LPT/180
Directorate Financial Accounting
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Financial Accounting / Management Accounting / Cost
and Management Accounting / Financial Information Systems as recognized by
SAQA. 2 years functional experience in Financial Management. knowledge &
skills: - Knowledge of variety of work ranges and procedure such as PFMA. SCOA.
Government Financial Systems. Economic reporting. Transversal Revenue Policy.
Managerial functions. Finance. Human Resource matters; Planning and
organizing. Compilation of reports. Technical / standards. Ability to interpret policy.
Financial Management. Analytic and innovative thinking. Report writing. Ability to
operate Computer. Leadership. Conflict Management
DUTIES : Provide support in administration of departmental revenue. Prepare payment
vouchers. Transfer Revenue collected to Provincial Revenue Fund. Compile
monthly and quarterly reports. Compile proposal revenue tariffs revision. Compile
and revise revenue budget estimate as well as MTEF. Capture original and revise
revenue budget estimates into BAS. Compile and revise monthly revenue
projections. Ensure that bank exceptions are cleared. Implement applicable
policies and procedures. Provide support in clearing suspense account. Compile
and capture BAS journals. Analysis of daily bank statements. Reconcile the bank
account. Reconcile and clear suspense accounts. Analysis of trial balance on a
daily basis. Prepare monthly and quarterly suspense control account reports.
Perform monthly and year and closures. Communicate with bankers, other
departments, and directorate on provision of information. Prepare monthly
compliance certificate. Retrieve and submit information requested by Auditor
General. Balance general ledger by preparing a trial balance, reconciling entries.
Prepare financial reports by collecting, analysing and summarising account
information. Conduct periodic reconciliations of all accounts to ensure their
accuracy. Provide support in collection of debts. Monitor the capturing of debts.
Maintain debt register. Authorise the process of creating entities. Submit debt age
analysis, monthly and quarterly reports. Submit quarterly monitoring tool. Monitor
irrecoverable debts. Ensure the allocation of direct deposits, pensions and
PERSAL deductions to the respective debts. Monitor the reconciliation of debts on
PERSAL and BAS. Compile / complete journal on the prescribed journal form.
Ensure filling and safekeeping of reports. Provide support in compilation of interim
and annual financial statements. Download the template. Run all the macro
updates as they are made available. Request information for notes from different
directorate. Calculate other amounts for disclosures. Request current year trial
balance to upload on the template. Download the trial balance into excel. Run
macro for the previous year trial balance into the financials template. Map all the
trial balance items as per SCOA into financials template. Record all the necessary
secondary information into the notes. Correct all exceptions. Ensuring that all
balances recorded are correct. Provide all relevant narrations to the notes. Prepare
audit file.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/442 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: SERVICE BENEFITS REF NO LPT/33
Directorate Human Resource Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Human Resource Management / Public Administration
/ Public Management or related field as recognised by SAQA. 2 years functional
working experience in Human Resource Management or related field. PERSAL
Training, Results or Certificate and PILIR Certificate. Knowledge & Skills: - Sound
255
and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of human resources as
well as understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service
such as, Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act, Basic Conditions Act,
labour Relations Act, Public Service Act, Administrative Justice Act, Promotion of
Access of Information Act, Public Service Regulations, and various Bargaining
Council Resolutions. Skills of Negotiation and People Management. Financial
Management, Planning & Organising skills. Time management. Strategic Planning,
Policy Analysis and development skill. Good communication skills. Group
dynamics. Diversity Management. Facilitation & Co-ordination skills. Leadership,
Change and Knowledge Management skills.
DUTIES : Administer leave of absence. Review leaves applications for completeness and
compliance to prescripts. Process and approve applications for leave of absence
on PERSAL. Ensure accurate leave records on PERSAL and in the physical
register. Use the PERSAL System to manage leave transactions and related data.
Monitor attendance register. Administer termination of service. Request PERSAL
report for possible retirees at the beginning of the year. Process all service-
termination related cases in line with the prescripts. Generate submissions to the
HOD/MEC/delegate for approval and prepare letters to communicate the outcomes
of the applications to applicants. Process service termination transactions on
PERSAL. Audit capped leave and conduct leave reconciliation. Administer
payment of leave gratuity Receive applications for early retirement/normal
retirement and resignations. Facilitate the implementation of policy and procedure
on incapacity leave and ill health retirement. Verify all submitted PILIR applications
and secure the necessary conditional approvals from the relevant authorities.
Ensure timeous submission of applications to the Health Risk Manager for
assessment. Receive the outcome for the assessment. Generate submission and
letters to the HOD for approval, based on the health risk manager’s
recommendations. Ensure communication of the outcomes of assessment to the
affected employees. Generate headcount report, receive invoice, prepare BAS
payment advice and submit to Expenditure for payment. Ensure all PILLIR
transactions are captured / approved on PERSAL. Provide pension administration
services. Co-ordinate completion of GPAA withdrawal forms. Capture information
on (PCM) Pension Case Management. Register documents for filing. Administer
government employee housing scheme allowances and long service recognition.
government employee housing scheme allowances. Coordinate completion of
Homeowner’s allowance applications. Coordinate completion of withdrawal of
individual links savings facility application. Submit to the Deputy Director for
approval. Ensure homeowners allowances are accurately captured / approved on
PERSAL. Housing Stop Order. Process requests related to the initiation and
termination of housing stop orders. Ensure stop orders are accurately captured /
approved on PERSAL. Terminate housing stop orders. Administer Long Service
Recognition. Request report for long service qualifiers at the beginning of the year.
Generate letters to inform employees. Process Advice for payment of long service
recognition awards. Administer overtime. Process requests for overtime in line with
the relevant prescriptions. Generate submission for approval of the HOD. Verify
overtime claims and payment advice for accuracy and compliance with the
prescripts. Ensure creation of authority number.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/443 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT, APPOINTMENTS &
SELECTION REF NO LPT/38
Directorate Human Resource Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Human Resource Management / Public Administration
/ Public Management or related field as recognised by SAQA. 2 years functional
working experience in Recruitment, Selection & Appointments within Human
Resource Management. PERSAL Training / Results or Certificate. Knowledge &
Skills: - Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of human
resources as well as understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service such as, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, Administrative Justice Act,
Promotion of Access of Information Act, and various Bargaining Council
Resolutions. Ability to interpret and apply policy. Analytical and innovative thinking.
Report writing Skill. Financial Management. Negotiation skills. Ability to prioritize
matters. People management. Planning & organizing. Time management. Good
communication skills.
DUTIES : Administer recruitment and selection records. Assist with drafting of advertisement
of vacant posts. Facilitate the shortlisting and interview processes. Render
secretarial services in the shortlisting interviews. Request Personnel Suitability
Check. Prepare formal appointment memo to Executing authority for approval.
Capturing of appointments on PERSAL. Update the registers (appointments,
256
commitments). Update the appointment register. Administration and processing of
personnel records. Create SP files for new employees. Capturing of personnel
information on PERSAL such as qualifications. Dependents, Marital status,
residential addresses etc. Submitting all documents to HR Records for filling.
Administration of remunerative policies. Facilitate the process of acting
appointments. Capturing of Acting allowance on PERSAL. Facilitate the requests
for Resettlement expenditure. Facilitate and assist the candidates with the
completion of S&T claims for candidates who attended the interviews. Issuing of
advice payments to Payroll Management. Administration and processing of
personnel utilization. Facilitate the issuing of probation reviews and confirmation of
probationary period for employees who were appointed on probation. Facilitate
the transfers. process (Internal or external), secondments, relocations and
movements of staff. Capturing of transfers, relocations, movements, secondments
on PERSAL. Update the transfers and secondment registers.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/444 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: YOUTH DEVELOPMENT & TALENT
MANAGEMENT REF NO LPT/54
Directorate Human Resource Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Human Resource Management or related field as
recognised by SAQA. 2 years functional working experience in Human Resource
Development or related field. Knowledge & Skills: - Sound and in-depth knowledge
of relevant prescripts, application of human resources as well as understanding of
the legislative framework governing the Public Service such as, Employment
Equity Act, Skills Development Act, Basic Conditions Act, Labour Relations Act,
Public Service Act, Administrative Justice Act, Promotion of Access of Information
Act, Public Service Regulations, and various Bargaining Council Resolutions. Skills
of Negotiation and People Management. Financial Management, Planning &
Organising skills. Time management. Strategic Planning, Policy Analysis and
development skill. Good communication skills. Group dynamics. Diversity
Management. Facilitation & Co-ordination skills. Leadership, Change and
Knowledge Management skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate Internship Programme. Conduct internship needs analysis. Compile
internship advert. Place / enrol interns on internship programme. Facilitate rotation
of learners. Facilitate quarterly meetings with interns and mentors. Arrange
induction and training of interns (generic and technical training). Arrange training
of mentors. Monitor training and learning of interns through monthly reports.
Analyse interns monthly reports and compile presentation for quarterly meetings
with interns and mentors. Arrange certification/ graduation ceremony. Facilitate
Internal Audit Training (IAT) Learning Programme. Conduct IAT needs analysis.
Compile IAT advert. Place/ enrol learners on IAT learning programme. Facilitate
rotation of learners. Facilitate quarterly meetings with learners and mentors.
Arrange induction and training of learners (generic and technical training). Arrange
training of mentors. Monitor training and learning of learners monthly through
logbooks. Analyse interns monthly reports and compile presentation for quarterly
meetings. Facilitate Work Integrated Learning (WIL) programme. Conduct WIL
needs analysis. Communicate and liaise OTP and TVET Colleges on WIL
Programme. Facilitate placement of learners. Facilitate induction and training of
learners. Monitor training and learning of learners monthly through logbooks and
timesheets. Facilitate rotation of learners. Arrange learners meetings with the
Colleges. Assist learners in compiling testimonial letters. Arrange certification /
graduation ceremony. Facilitate CAA programme. Facilitate advertisement of CA
Programme. Facilitate enrolment of CA Trainees on CAA. Coordinate induction of
CA Trainees. Coordinate learning and training work sessions of Trainees. Facilitate
payments for membership, SAICA Board Courses, Board Exams and other
training. Identify and train mentors. Financial Management. Constant monitoring of
budget and expenditure for youth development programmes. Prepare
Memorandam for Goods and Services in respect of youth development
programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/445 : DEMAND & ACQUISITION PRACTITIONER REF NO LPT/195
Directorate Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA in Supply Chain Management
or related field. 1-year functional experience in Supply Chain Management.
J45knowledge & Skills: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts.
257
Application of Supply Chain Management as well as understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service such as; Knowledge of variety
of work ranges and procedures such as; SCM matters. Planning and organizing.
Needs and priorities of the Department. Good communication skills. Service
delivery innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. Computer literacy.
Analytical and interpretative skills. Change and knowledge management.
Competencies: Programme and Project Management, Change Management,
Financial Management, People Management and Empowerment, Knowledge
Management, Problem Solving and analysis, Client orientation, Customer Focus
and Communication.
DUTIES : Receive request from end users. Process invitation of all price quotations. Capture
requests on the Departmental Procurement System. Invite quotations from the
suppliers. Receive quotations from suppliers. Prepare dispatch memo for approval
by Director SCM or his/her delegated official. Open individual bid files according to
filling index. Compile bid documents as per to Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act and other relevant SCM prescripts. Advertise bids on Provincial
tender bulletin, e-portal, departmental website and any other media. Send bid
documents to supplier’s / service providers. Opening of bid box during bid closing
dates. Recording, numbering, and date stamp all received bid documents. Serve
as secretariat during bid specification, bid evaluation and bid adjudication sittings.
Prepare evaluation spreadsheets and scoring forms. Conduct site inspection on
the short-listed suppliers. Process invitation of bids greater than R1 000 000.00.
Conduct need analysis. Check the specification from Demand Manager to confirm
if it has been approved, check availability of budget before proceeding with
procurement of goods or services. Compile the register for the advertised bids.
Write down list of all bids advertised with their details such as date of
advertisement, closing date of the bid and progress report for the bids on whether
they are awarded or still under evaluation or adjudication process. Update the
reports on monthly basis. Maintenance of demand and acquisitions supplier
database. Prepare bid evaluation and bid adjudication reports. Prepare bid award
letters.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/446 : PERSONAL ASSISTANTS: REF NO LPT/PA/2026/1 (X 10 POSTS)
Chief Directors: Information Management / Corporate Services / Budget & Public
Finance Management / Municipal Finance & Governance / Assets & Liabilities
Management / Provincial SCM Management / Financial Management Information
Systems / Accounting Services / Risk Based Auditing & Specialized Audit Services
/ Risk Based Auditing / Performance & Consulting Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Office Management / Office Administration /
Management Assistant as recognised by SAQA. 1 year working experience in
Office Management / Office Administration / Management Assistance / Secretariat.
Knowledge & Skills: Professional presentation and communication skills. Basic
knowledge on financial administration. Good telephone etiquette. Good
interpersonal relations. Excellent communication. Report writing skills. Ms Office
Packages (Ms Word, Ms Excel; Ms Power-point; Ms Outlook). Time Management:
Ability to work under pressure; Ability to maintain confidentiality. PFMA and
Treasury Regulations. Batho Pele principles. Competencies: Planning and
organising. Networking and Customer service orientation. Organizational
communication effectiveness. Self-management.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial support to the Chief Director. Receives telephone calls.
Operates and ensures that the Office equipment, e.g., fax machine and
photocopier are in good order. Records the engagement of the Chief Director
Utilizes discretion to decide whether to accept/decline or refer to other employees
request for meetings. Coordinates with and sensitized/advises the Chief Director
regarding engagements. Compile realistic schedules of appointments. Renders
administration support services. Ensure the effective flow of information and
documents to and from the office. Ensure the safekeeping of all documentation in
the office in line with relevant legislation and policies. Obtains inputs, collates and
compiles reports e.g. progress, Monthly reports, Management reports. Scrutinizes
routine submission/ reports and make notes and/or recommendations. Responds
to enquire received from internal and external stakeholders. Drafts documents as
required. Filing of documents. Collects, analyses, and collates information
requested. Clarifies instructions and notes on notes behalf of the Chief Director.
Ensures that travel arrangements are well coordinated. Prioritises issues in the
office of the Chief Director. Manages the leave register and telephone accounts for
the units. Handles the procurement of standards items like stationary, refreshment
etc. for the activities of the manager and the unit. Obtain the necessary signatures
on documents like procurement advises and monthly salary reports. Provides
support to Chief Director regarding meetings. Scrutinizes documents to determine
258
actions/ information / other documents required for meetings. Collects and
compiles all necessary documents for the manager to inform him/ her on the
contents. Records minutes/ decisions and communications to relevant role players,
follow-up on progress made. Prepare briefing notes for the Chief Director as
required. Coordinates logistical arrangements for meetings when required. Support
the Chief Director with the administration of budget. Collects and coordinates all
the documents that relate to the budget of Chief Director. Assists Chief Director in
determining funding requirements for purpose of MTEF submissions. Keeps
records of expenditure commitment, monitors expenditure and alerts Chief Director
of possible over-and under spending. Check and correlates BAS reports to ensure
that expenditure is allocated correctly. Identifies the need to move funds between
items, consult with the manager and compiles draft memos for this purpose. (N.B)
Successful candidates may be appointed to any of the advertised Personal
Assistant posts.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/447 : REGISTRY CLERK: RECORDS & KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT REF NO’S
LPT/105, LPT/108 & LPT/109 (3 X POSTS)
Directorate Records Management & Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 5)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric / An NQF level 4 as recognised by SAQA. Knowledge & Skills:
Knowledge of Registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, and
operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval
procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the work in
Registry.
DUTIES : Provide clerical support to Human Records Management. Opening and closing of
files. Giving folio numbers to all documents / correspondence received in the
registry. Listing all Human Resource Records which are ready for disposal.
Implementation of minimum information required in all Human resource records.
Redressing of all worn out files and replacement of new jackets. Filling of personnel
and other related documents. Maintenance of registers. Ensure safekeeping of
personal records. Render Archive services. Maintenance of the staff filling / records
classification systems. Quarterly audit of all active documents and files. Provide
any other administrative support to the office. Provide support on facilitation of
compliance of information and security. Ensure compliance to management of
information and security and promotion of access to information. Ensure
compliance to management of National Minimum Information Requirements are
complied. Ensure compliance to records classification requirement. Provide
support on coordination of personal files. Safekeeping of personal files.
Maintenance of stall file plan. Maintenance of schedule of records management
manuals. Process documents for archiving and disposal. Listing of records that are
due for disposal. Listing of records that need to be transferred both to the Provincial
Archives and mini departmental archives. Compile list of documents to be archived
and submit to the supervisor. Listing of all applications for employment that need
to be disposed. Provide reproduction services on Human Resource Records.
Attend to clients. Handl telephonic and other enquiries received. Electronic
scanning of files. Sort and package files for archived and distribution. Keep records
for archived documents. Complete index cards for all files.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/448 : TELECOM OPERATOR REF NO LPT/125
Directorate Records Management & Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 4)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric / An NQF level 4 as recognised by SAQA. knowledge & skills:
Sound and in-depth knowledge of providing switchboard operation. Ability to
operate switchboard machines. Teamwork. Good interpersonal relations. Able to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Rendering an efficient and effective telecom or switchboard services. Attend
incoming and outgoing calls. Transfer call to the relevant extension. Providing
clients with relevant information. Prompt answering of calls, friendly and helpful.
Take massage and convey them to other relevant staff. Record keeping of all
outgoing calls. Identify and report telephone faults to the supervisor. Manage and
handle extremely high volume of incoming calls. Transmit outgoing calls and
handle transfer of calls. Test switchboard lines and assist technician. Compile
procurement requisition relating to the switchboard section and submit invoice to
the supervisor for payment to the switchboard service provider. Arrange telephone
instruments for new employees and replacement of faulty telephone instruments
259
for service. Provider. Perform administrative duties that relate to the switchboard
as requested by the supervisor. Send itemized bills of switchboard extension to all
staff to identify private and official calls. Assist and help the supervisor with
maintenance of the telephone register. Assist with quarterly audit of telephones,
fax and ISDN lines. Make sure compliance in accordance with National Treasury
prescripts and GCIS financial policies Act as back-up for other colleagues in the
section and attend to enquires. Provide any other administrative support to the
department.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
POST 22/449 : CLEANERS REF NO LPT/134 / LPT/136 & LPT/150 (X 3 POSTS)
Directorate Records Management & Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : ABET / AET/ Grade 10 as recognised by SAQA. Knowledge & Skills: Sound and
in-depth knowledge of providing housekeeping. Ability to operate cleaning
equipment. Teamwork. Good interpersonal relations. Able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Cleaning of offices daily. Dusting and waxing office furniture. Sweeping scrubbing
and waxing floors. Vacuuming and shampooing floors. Cleaning walls, windows,
and doors. Emptying and cleaning of dirt bin. Cleaning of restrooms daily. Cleaning
toilets. Replacing toilet paper. Emptying and washing waste bins. cleaning of
corridors, elevators, and passages. Cleaning elevators. Clean corridors. Clean the
passages. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and equipment’s. Report broken
cleaning materials and equipment’s. Cleaning of machines (Microwaves, vacuum
cleaners) and equipment’s after use.
ENQUIRIES : Mesdames Elizba Kotze / B.P. Chaka / Conny Kgadima / K.H. Moremi / Mr. J.S.
Nduli Contact No. 015 298 7000.
260
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
The Mpumalanga Department of Education is committed to provide equal opportunities and practices
affirmative action employment. It is the intention of the Department to promote representivity (disability,
gender and race) through the filling of posts and a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will
promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : The Mpumalanga Department of Education awaits applications from suitably
qualified and experienced persons for appointment to positions, as set out below:
Should be uploaded via the following link uploaded on the following link
https://erecruitment.mpg.gov.za
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to 013 766 5524/5175/5267/5458/5350: Ms. NP Magagula / Ms.
SL Mkhatshwa / Ms. SR Ndzinisa / Mr. X Sifunda, YT Mthethwa - HR Recruitment.
CLOSING DATE : 16 July 2026
NOTE : Applications should be submitted on the latest Form Z.83, obtainable from any
Public Service Department. Applications must in all cases be accompanied by a
recent updated comprehensive CV only. Only shortlisted candidates for a post will
be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
driver’s license on or before the day of the interview following communication from
the relevant HR section of the Department. A complete set of application
documents should be submitted separately for every post that you wish to apply
for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description and the relevant
Post Reference Number on your application. No fax applications will be
considered. Applicants must ensure that they complete part A, B AND C as well as
the declaration and sign form Z83, even if they are attaching a CV. and sign form
Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or unsigned applications will
not be considered. If you are currently in service, please indicate your PERSAL
number at the top of form Z83. The filling of posts will be done in terms of the
Department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Due to ongoing internal
processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at any time.
The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All short-
listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment. If no
response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Education within 90 days
after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that their
application was not successful. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job.
Following the interview and technical exercise the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance
with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based
assessments) The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 22/450 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: FURTHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING A4/075
SALARY : R1 554 696 per.annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package can
be structured according to the individual’s personal needs. The successful
candidate will have to sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose
his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security clearance. Appointment
will be subject to competency assessment.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognised Bachelors Degree or Advanced Diploma or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 7) relevant to the specific field plus a minimum
of 5 years experience at a middle/senior managerial level. A relevant postgraduate
qualification will be an added advantage. Proven outstanding managerial and
service delivery competency. In depth knowledge and understanding of education
policies and legislation, in particular the policy frameworks governing the provision
of further education and training, Public Examinations, as well as the PFMA and
Financial Regulations. Extensive knowledge of and credible experience in the area
of further education and training. Proven communication and interpersonal skills at
all levels. Sound analytical and problem-solving skills. Advanced planning,
organising and project management skills. Sound financial management skills.
Ability to develop logical frameworks and other planning models. Ability to develop
and adhere to work schedules and to work under pressure. Ability to maintain the
required level of information confidentiality and security. Developed computer
literacy. Willingness to travel and work beyond normal working hours. Ability to
provide strategic leadership and to deliver excellent results under pressure. Valid
driver's license. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a relevant technical
exercise. Please note: With effect from 1 April 2020, an individual may only qualify
for appointment at SMS level provided that said official has successfully completed
261
a Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme and that he/she can
produce the required Pre-entry Certificate as issued by the National School of
Governance (NSG) on her/his own cost. For further information related to the on-
line course, interested officials are advised to contact nyukela@thensg.gov.za. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability
based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Ensure the development, planning, implementation, monitoring, assessment and
co-ordination of policy and systems for further education and training and Public
Examinations. Ensure the effective delivery of policy, programmes and systems for
diverse educational support services. Manage independent Institution compliance
as well as examination question papers and marking, examination policy support
and examination administration support. Ensure compliance, implementation and
maintenance of national and provincial policy frameworks in the responsible areas
of activity. Ensure mission effectiveness and operational efficiency through
effective and efficient resources management, including the human resources,
finance, equipment and systems of the component. Contribute to the strategic
direction of the Department. Pro-actively build sound relationships with key
stakeholders and clients, including organised labour. Empower staff within the
component through coaching, development and skills transfer. The appointee will
be a member of the management echelon of the Department of Education and will
be expected to contribute at that level. Promote a culture of efficiency and quality.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. ER Nkosi, Tel (013) 766 0918
POST 22/451 : DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT A4/078
SALARY : R1 317 384 per.annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package can
be structured according to the individual’s personal needs. The successful
candidate will have to sign an annual performance agreement, annually disclose
his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security clearance. Appointment
will be subject to competency assessment.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate SAQA recognised Bachelors Degree or Advanced Diploma or
equivalent qualification (NQF level 7) relevant to the specific field plus a minimum
of 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Membership of the
Institute of Internal Auditors. Appropriate experience in electronic data processing
systems, project management and internal auditing. Knowledge of GAAP and
Internal Auditing Standards. Exposure to Public Finance. Extensive knowledge of
the Public Finance Management Act. Ability to develop logical frameworks and
other planning models. Ability to develop and adhere to work schedules and to
work under pressure. Ability to maintain the required level of information
confidentiality and security. Developed computer literacy. Valid drivers license.
Willingness to travel and work beyond normal working hours. Ability to provide
strategic leadership and to deliver excellent results under pressure. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a relevant technical exercise. Please note: With
effect from 1 April 2020, an individual may only qualify for appointment at SMS
level provided that said official has successfully completed a Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme and that he/she can produce the required
Pre-entry Certificate as issued by the National School of Governance (NSG) on
her/his own cost. For further information related to the on-line course, interested
officials are advised to contact nyukela@thensg.gov.za. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : High level risk assessment of business units. Determine the scope of audit testing.
Prepare medium and long term audit plans. Manage the planning and execution of
audits in accordance with the IIA Standards. Monitor compliance of policies and
procedures. Report audit findings to the Accounting Officer and make
recommendations for correcting deficiencies to improve operations and reduce
costs. Ensure compliance, implementation and maintenance of national and
provincial policy frameworks in the responsible areas of activity. Analyse losses
and manage the departmental database for loss control. Promote a culture of
efficiency and quality. Contribute to the strategic direction of the Department. The
appointee will be a member of the management echelon of the Department of
Education and will be expected to contribute at that level.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LH Moyane, Tel (013) 766 5520
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/452 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING A4/084
262
SALARY : R932 292 per.annum. The package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7/6) as recognised by SAQA in Labour
Relations /Labour Law or equivalent qualifications. Minimum of 3 years’ relevant
experience in Labour Relations environment. Competencies: Extensive knowledge
of Labour laws, dispute resolution mechanisms, education legislation and policies
and public service legislation and policies. In depth knowledge of and experience
in procedures for dealing with incapacity/inefficiency and employee behaviour.
Credible experience in conflict resolution and crisis intervention. Strong
interpersonal-, written and verbal communication skills. Proven ability to
communicate effectively with a broad spectrum of role players. Excellent report
writing skills. Sound analytical and problem-solving skills. Advanced planning,
organising and project management skills. Sound financial management skills.
Ability to develop logical frameworks and other planning models. Ability to develop
and adhere to work schedules. Ability to maintain the required level of information
confidentiality and security. Developed computer literacy. Willingness to travel and
work beyond normal working hours. Ability to provide strategic leadership and to
deliver excellent results under pressure. Valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Manage the Collective Bargaining Unit. Co-ordinate, manage and monitor
collective bargaining activities. Prepare and obtain mandates for collective
bargaining. Prepare documents for collective bargaining. To represent the
employer in collective bargaining structures. To Liaise with disputing parties with
the aim of resolving disputes emanating from collective bargaining. To handle
Industrial actions according to legislation, policy and procedure. Give direction to,
co-ordinate, monitor and advise on all Labour relations related matters (procedural
and policy). Interpret existing and newly developed policies and facilitate policy
making on Labour relations matters where applicable. Manage the development
and implementation of appropriate policy, systems, management- and
administrative structures for the provision and maintenance of a comprehensive
Labour relations service. Identify the needs for improved Labour relations services
and formulate programmes and projects for the implementation thereof. Ensure
compliance, implementation and maintenance of national and provincial policy
frameworks in the responsible areas of activity. Maintain discipline of staff
members. Promote a culture of efficiency and quality. Execute HR Performance
Management. The appointee will be a member of the middle management echelon
of the Department of Education and will be expected to chair disciplinary enquiries
when required to do so.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Ngwenya, Tel (013) 766 5429
POST 22/453 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL & SUPPORT SERVICES A4/085
SALARY : R932 292 per.annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package can
be structured according to the individual’s personal needs
CENTRE : Nkangala District Office, KwaMhlanga
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7/6) as recognised by SAQA in
Accounting/Cost and Management Accounting/Commerce/Financial Management
or equivalent qualifications related to the field. Minimum of 3 years’ relevant
experience. In depth knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999,
Treasury Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA)
and the specified work field. Sound knowledge and experience of all financial
related matters, budget procedures, the Basic Accounting System (BAS), the
PERSAL System as well as the computerised LOGIS System. Well-developed
written and verbal communication skills. Good presentation and report writing
skills. Strong interpersonal and networking skills. Ability to work under pressure.
Ability to function independently. Proven management skills and the ability to liaise
at a high level. The ability to develop systems and processes as well as policies
and procedures. Client-orientation/customer focus. Analytical, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Good computer user knowledge and experience. Valid
driver's license.
DUTIES : Overall management of district Financial Services (including Budget and revenue
management, expenditure services & Salary services, Supply Chain services and
Asset Management). Ensure the efficient management of the district budget, the
co-ordination of budgetary inputs and financial reporting. Manage and co-ordinate
the efficient and accountable administration of salaries and salary accounts.
Ensure the effective acquisition of goods and services. Co-ordinate and administer
matters in respect of asset management in accordance with policies and
delegations. Give direction to, co-ordinate, monitor and advise on all finance
related matters (procedural and policy). Interpret existing and newly developed
policies and facilitate policy making on financial matters where applicable. Develop
and implement appropriate policy, systems, management- and administrative
structures for the provision and maintenance of a comprehensive district Financial
Service. Identify the needs for improved financial services and formulate
263
programmes and projects for the implementation thereof. Maintain discipline of
staff members. Execute HR Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela, Tel (013) 947 1816 / Ms LS Malatjie, Tel (013) 947 1725
POST 22/454 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HR SERVICES A4/086
SALARY : R932 292 per.annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package can
be structured according to the individual’s personal needs. Appointment will be
subject to competency assessment.
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office, Kanyamazane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7/6) as recognised by SAQA in Human
Resource Management /Public Management or equivalent qualification. Minimum
of 3 years’ relevant experience in an HR environment. Competencies: Knowledge
of Human Resource concepts, principles, policies and procedures. In depth
knowledge and experience of the PERSAL System. Knowledge of the legislation
regulating all HR administration of educators and officials and related HR policies
and practices, as well as employee wellness. Excellent written and verbal
communication skills. Good presentation and report writing skills. Strong
interpersonal and networking skills. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to
function independently. Proven management skills and the ability to liaise at a high
level. The ability to develop systems and processes as well as policies and
procedures. Client-orientation/ customer focus. Analytical, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Advanced planning and project management skills. Proven
supervisory and people management skills. Good computer user knowledge and
experience pertaining to MS Office (Word, Excel and PowerPoint - with special
emphasis on Access). Valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Overall management of district HR Services, including specialised HR support-,
research and advisory services, establishment services, employment, career
matters, housing and leave, pensions and compensation benefits, PERSAL
registry services, the maintenance of the PERSAL Personnel subsystem, and the
co-ordination of all HR Projects. Overall management of matters in respect of
HIV/AIDS prevention and -care programmes and employee assistance
programmes. Give direction to, co-ordinate, monitor and advise on all HR related
matters (procedural and policy). Interpret existing and newly developed policies
and facilitate policy making on HR matters where applicable. Develop and
implement appropriate policy, systems, management- and administrative
structures for the provision and maintenance of a comprehensive district HR
Service. Identify the needs for improved HR services and formulate programmes
and projects for the implementation thereof. Maintain discipline of staff members.
Execute HR Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JT Dlamini, Tel (013) 766 0508
POST 22/455 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HR SERVICES A4/087
SALARY : R932 292 per.annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package can
be structured according to the individual’s personal needs
CENTRE : Bohlabela District Office, Bushbuckridge
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7/6) as recognised by SAQA in Human
Resource Management /Public Management or equivalent qualification. Minimum
of 3 years’ relevant experience in an HR environment. Competencies: Knowledge
of Human Resource concepts, principles, policies and procedures. In depth
knowledge and experience of the PERSAL System. Knowledge of the legislation
regulating all HR administration of educators and officials and related HR policies
and practices, as well as employee wellness. Excellent written and verbal
communication skills. Good presentation and report writing skills. Strong
interpersonal and networking skills. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to
function independently. Proven management skills and the ability to liaise at a high
level. The ability to develop systems and processes as well as policies and
procedures. Client-orientation/ customer focus. Analytical, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Advanced planning and project management skills. Proven
supervisory and people management skills. Good computer user knowledge and
experience pertaining to MS Office (Word, Excel and PowerPoint - with special
emphasis on Access). Valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Overall management of district HR Services, including specialised HR support-,
research and advisory services, establishment services, employment, career
matters, housing and leave, pensions and compensation benefits, PERSAL
registry services, the maintenance of the PERSAL Personnel subsystem, and the
co-ordination of all HR Projects. Overall management of matters in respect of
HIV/AIDS prevention and -care programmes and employee assistance
programmes. Give direction to, co-ordinate, monitor and advise on all HR related
matters (procedural and policy). Interpret existing and newly developed policies
and facilitate policy making on HR matters where applicable. Develop and
implement appropriate policy, systems, management- and administrative
structures for the provision and maintenance of a comprehensive district HR
264
Service. Identify the needs for improved HR services and formulate programmes
and projects for the implementation thereof. Maintain discipline of staff members.
Execute HR Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Mashile, Tel (013) 766 7441
POST 22/456 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS
A4/088
SALARY : R932 292 per.annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package can
be structured according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Bohlabela District Office, Bushbuckridge
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7/6) as recognised by SAQA or equivalent
qualifications related to the field. Minimum of 3 years’ relevant experience. In depth
knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999, Treasury Regulations
and the specific work field. Sound knowledge and experience of all building project
matters, education and training management information systems as well as
computer-based system services. Well-developed written and verbal
communication skills. Good presentation and report writing skills. Strong
interpersonal and networking skills. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to
function independently. Proven management skills and the ability to liaise at a high
level. The ability to develop systems and processes as well as policies and
procedures. Client-orientation/customer focus. Analytical, problem solving and
decision-making skills. Extensive computer user knowledge and experience. Valid
driver's license.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate the rendering of integrated education resource planning-
and resource management services within the MTEF. Oversee the performing of
works inspections. Manage the strategic development and operation of education
and training management information systems, collecting and provisioning of
education data at District level. Manage the establishment, support and
maintenance of effective and efficient information communication technology
systems throughout the district.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Mashile, Tel (013) 766 7441
POST 22/457 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS A4/089
SALARY : R932 292 per annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package can
be structured according to the individual’s personal needs
CENTRE : Bohlabela District Office, Bushbuckridge
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7/6) as recognised by SAQA in Labour
Relations /Labour Law or equivalent qualifications. Minimum of 3 years’ relevant
experience in Labour Relations environment. Competencies: Extensive knowledge
of Labour laws, dispute resolution mechanisms, education legislation and policies
and public service legislation and policies. In depth knowledge of and experience
in procedures for dealing with incapacity/inefficiency and employee behaviour.
Credible experience in conflict resolution and crisis intervention. Strong
interpersonal-, written and verbal communication skills. Proven ability to
communicate effectively with a broad spectrum of role players. Excellent report
writing skills. Sound analytical and problem-solving skills. Advanced planning,
organising and project management skills. Sound financial management skills.
Ability to develop logical frameworks and other planning models. Ability to develop
and adhere to work schedules. Ability to maintain the required level of information
confidentiality and security. Developed computer literacy. Willingness to travel and
work beyond normal working hours. Ability to provide strategic leadership and to
deliver excellent results under pressure. Valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Manage all district labour relations matters. Co-ordinate, manage and monitor
collective bargaining activities, address grievances and regulate, promote and
administer sound dispute resolution and -prevention mechanisms. Manage all
matters pertaining to incapacity/ inefficiency and employee behaviour. Give
direction to, co-ordinate, monitor and advise on all labour relations matters
(procedural and policy). Interpret existing and newly developed policies and
facilitate policy making on collective bargaining, grievances as well as dispute
resolution and -prevention mechanisms. Manage the monitoring of time off and
secondment for teacher union or employee organisation activities. Liaise with Head
Office and trade unions on all labour relations matters. Develop and implement
appropriate policy, systems, management- and administrative structures for the
provision of effective and efficient district labour relations. Maintain discipline of
staff members. Execute HR Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Mashile, Tel (013) 766 7441
POST 22/458 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSFORMATION A4/090
SALARY : R932 292 per annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package can
be structured according to the individual’s personal needs
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
265
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7/6) as recognised by SAQA in Public
Management/Human Resource Management or equivalent qualifications.
Minimum of 3 years’ relevant management experience in HR- and transformation
management issues. Competencies: Extensive knowledge of the legislation
regulating the transformation of the public service and related HR policies and
practices. Planning and organising skills. Ability to meet deadlines. Strong
interpersonal-, written and verbal communication skills. Good presentation and
report writing skills. Proven managerial skills and the ability to liaise at a high level.
Good computer user knowledge and experience. Condition: Appointment will be
subject to competency assessment. Valid driver's license
DUTIES : This role is responsible for managing staff performance and executing
management function regarding the transformation of civil society in order to
achieve organisational objectives. Develop and manage transformation processes.
Render support services. Manage and develop democratization of the workplace.
Develop policies and procedures. Perform management functions. Execute HR
Performance Management. Ensure the development, monitoring and implement
Employment Equity Plan and the reporting, therefore. Co-ordinate the Employment
Equity Committee meetings. Facilitate Diversity Management programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LH Moyane, Tel (013) 766 5520
POST 22/459 : GIS SPECIALIST: WEB SERVICES A4/091
SALARY : R932 292 per annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package can
be structured according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : University degree in Information Technology / Computer Science / BSc plus an
appropriate Honours- and / or Masters degree. An additional tertiary GIS
qualification in Geographical Information Systems. At least three to five years
experience in management of Geographic Information Systems. Experience in GIS
database administration, GIS web application development and/or spatial analysis
and data extraction will be considered. Experience in working with Arc Gis or Arc
lMS. Project management. Knowledge of Government legislation regarding spatial
information. Experience in the educational sector will be an advantage. Analytical
thinking and problem-solving abilities. Excellent client liaison skills. Sound
teamwork and human relation capabilities. Ability to work under pressure and
expended working hours. Valid driver’s lisence.
DUTIES : Manage, maintain and support the departmental GIS services. Identify and acquire
spatial and non-spatial data from various sources. Prepare data for use in the GIS
environment. Use static information and non-spatial information to create spatial
data. Compile and print reports and maps based on the spatial analysis.
Responsible for business report writing and spatial data presentations. Promote
the use of GIS and spatial analysis in the planning and monitoring of in-house
development. Represent the department on departmental, provincial and national
level.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Tebeila, Tel (013) 766 5566
POST 22/460 : SENIOR STATISTICIAN: EDUCATION MANAGEMENT INFORMATION
SYSTEMS A4/092
SALARY : R932 292 per annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package can
be structured according to the individual’s personal needs
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year qualification (NQF6) as recognised by SAQA in Statistics,
plus extensive appropriate experience in statistics analyses or in a mathematics -
related environment. Computer literate in Microsoft developments. Excellent
statistical analysing skills. Good verbal and written communication skills. Good
report writing skills. Sound human relations and the ability to work under pressure
and within a team. Valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Execute statistical analyses of education data and Stats-SA data. Incorporate
external data into useful analytical data. Forecast trends on data to support
management decisions. Liaise with other departments / directorates / sectors in
assisting with data analyses. Work closely with the Chief Information Officer in
regard of the above. Assist management in analyses and understanding of
statistical data. Prepare statistical reports for publishing on web-sites, newsletters
and media. Liaise within the matrix function on statistical reporting
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D Mtembu, Tel (013) 766 5124
POST 22/461 : WEB SPECIALIST: WEB SERVICES A4/093
SALARY : R932 292 per annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package can
be structured according to the individual’s personal needs
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized Bachelors degree or equivalent qualification. Relevant
technical qualifications. At least 5 years relevant experience. Analytical thinking
266
and problem-solving abilities. Excellent client liaison skills. Sound teamwork and
human relation capabilities. Ability to work under pressure and extended working
hours. Experience in the Educational sector, project management experience,
sound knowledge of HTML/ASP.NET/PHP languages and familiar with SQL
databases will be considered. Short listed candidates may be required to complete
a technical/practical competency test. Valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Develop policies in support of the Departmental strategy. Represent the
department on departmental, provincial and national level. Manage technical
aspects of the departmental web site. Liaise with other departmental stakeholders
regarding departmental website content. Maintain, manage and support the
departmental website. Liaise with the EMIS and Information Officer regarding
publishing educational data.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Tebeila, Tel (013) 766 5566
267
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Please forward the applications for the post quoting the relevant reference number
to: Senior Manager, Human Resources Administration, Office of the Premier,
Kimberley, 8300, hand deliver at T & I Building, 69 Monument Heights, Office of
the Premier, Ground Floor (Security) and or email addresses provided for each
individual post.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. K. Moremi
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026
NOTE : The Northern Cape Office of the Premier is committed to providing equal
opportunities and practicing affirmative action employment. We intent to promote
equity through the fulfilment of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment
Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender
and disability status is required. Preference will be given to females as per the
Northern Cape Office of the Premier Employment Equity Targets. Women and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Compliance: Applications must
be submitted on the approved New Amended Z83 Form (No.81/971431) as
prescribed with effect from 01 January 2021, which must be signed, initialled and
dated, however, the initial on the second page of the form is not mandatory. The
form is obtainable any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website,
www.dpsa.gov.za. Applicants must indicate the post and the correct reference
number on the Z83 application Form. The New Z83 Form must be accompanied
by detailed Curriculum Vitae clearly indicating positions held, period in the position
and key responsibilities with three contactable referees and it is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide
proof of such evaluation report (only when shortlisted). DPSA Circular 03 of 2025
states that the form must be completed in manner that provides sufficient
information about the candidate and the post applied for by completing all relevant
fields. Please note that Part A must be fully completed. Part B, C and D questions
of the Z83 may be left blank, marked as not relevant, and use dashes or N/A if they
do not apply to you or the position applied for. Part E, F and G do not need to be
completed if the CV has been attached and provides the required information.
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re appointment under Part
F is compulsory for applicants seeking re-employment into the Public Service.
Applicants currently employed by the public service do not need to complete the
section as it is intended for those seeking re employment. Failure to provide
information on CV as requested the applicant may be disqualified. Applications
received after closing date will, as a rule not be accepted. Only shortlisted
candidates for the post will be required to submit certified documents on or before
the day of the interviews. It will be expected of candidate(s) to be available for
interview process on a date, time and place as determined by the Department. All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise
and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric
assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity. Applicants could be required to provide consent for
access to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment for SMS, a candidate
would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to
Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online course,
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is available at
the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can
be sourced by the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-entry-programme/ Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required to undergo
personal suitability checks, which include criminal records, citizenship, financial
credits/assets, qualifications verification, verification of any dismissal for
misconduct and previous employment background/reference checks will be
verified. Candidates will be subject to security screening and vetting. Applicants
must disclose if he/she is not a Director/Shareholder of a company or conducting
162 any business with Organ of State and whether is performing any additional
remunerative work outside his/her normal duties. The successful candidate will
enter into an Annual Performance Agreement, and also annually disclose his/her
financial interest. The Department reserves the right not to make appointments.
Candidates requiring additional information regarding advertised post must direct
their enquiries to the relevant person indicated. Communication and
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months after the closing date, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful.
268
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 22/462 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY SERVICES - REF NO: CD/PGITO/2026
Re-Advertisement
SALARY : R1 554 696.per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a recognised Bachelor’s Degree in Information
Technology/ Computer Science/Information Systems (NQF Level 7), coupled with
a minimum of five (5) years relevant experience, at Senior Management (SMS)
level, within an Information Technology environment, with a proven track record in
project and contract management. The Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme is required and no appointment shall be finalized without the relevant
candidate producing the pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela Certificate). A valid
driver’s licence is essential. Competencies: The following key competencies and
skills are required for the position: Knowledge of the latest advances in public
management theory and practice, Public Service regulatory framework;
Knowledge of Government-wide Enterprise Architecture framework (GWEA), ITIL,
COBIT; Knowledge of policy and strategy development and planning, for
implementation within a government environment, Knowledge of Information
Technology Service Management (ITSM); Understanding of Corporate
Governance of ICT; Know-how on digital transformation and Strategic ICT
leadership; Understanding of digital governance, data analytics and Cyber
security; Programme and Project Management, Contract Management, Change
and Knowledge Management, Financial Management; Excellent management
communication and interpersonal skills; Strong leadership and organisational
skills; Negotiation, influencing, collaboration and partnership building; Problem
solving and analytical skills Ability to leverage information and technology in
business model design, business process re-engineering, products and services
development; Logical and creative thinker, able to create synergies across the
Province, to enable cost-effective and innovative shared solutions, geared towards
achievement of organisational goals and improve government performance.
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: Manage ICT Infrastructure and operation within the Northern
Cape Provincial Government; Develop and implement the provincial ICT
infrastructure strategy to ensure reliable, secure and scalable ICT services; Lead
the planning and rollout of infrastructure renewal, upgrades, and lifecycle
management in alignment with GWEA and ITSM best practices; Develop disaster
recovery and ICT continuity plans for provincial systems and ensure regular
testing; Manage and coordinate Information Security services; Develop and
implement the Provincial Information Security Framework aligned to national cyber
security standards and DPSA prescripts; Oversee information security risk
assessments and ensure mitigation plans across provincial departments; Establish
policies and guidelines governing data governance, access control, information
classification, and privacy compliance; Manage and coordinate the transversal
GITO and Governance Services; Coordinate implementation of the Government
wide Enterprise Architecture (GWEA) across provincial departments; Provide
governance leadership on ICT planning, policy development and ICT alignment to
departmental APPs and Ops; Oversee monitoring and reporting on transversal ICT
projects and ensuring alignment to government priorities; Manage, coordinate and
facilitate the provisioning of government information and services to communities;
Lead the development of digital government platforms and e services for public
access; Oversee the rollout and support of community ICT access points (Thusong
Centres, community Wi-Fi, mobile service technologies); Facilitate partnerships
with municipalities, private sector and academic institutions to expand digital
inclusion; Drive digital transformation programmes to improve citizen centric
service delivery; Implement communication and outreach strategies to improve
public awareness and uptake of digital government services; The overall
management of the Chief Directorate; Manage the Chief Directorate’s budget,
ensuring expenditure aligns with PFMA and strategic priorities; Provide strategic
leadership, oversight and coordination across all components; Foster stakeholder
relations with other departments, DPSA, academic institutions and private sector
partners
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Tlaletsi Tel No: 053 030 0625
APPLICATIONS : Email applications to: PGITS2026@ncpg.gov.za
269
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST PROVINCE
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE AND TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
APPLICATIONS : Completed applications should be forwarded to the Director: Human Resource
Management, Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs,
Private Bag x 2145 Mmabatho, 2735 or hand delivered to Telkom Building, 3366
Bessemer Street , Industrial Site, Mafikeng (Behind the Crossing Shopping
Complex) for attention: Ms Ethelia Masibi, tel. (018) 388 3933 or Ms Katlego
Sebaetse, tel. (018) 388 3935, email: nwcogtarecruit@nwpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 10 July, Time (15H30)
NOTE : Directions to Applicants: Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form,
new Z83 (properly completed), obtainable from any Public Service office. A
comprehensive CV with competencies, experience, and with full names,
addresses, and telephone numbers of at least three referees. Applicants are not
required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on
applications; however, shortlisted candidates must submit other relevant
documents to HR on or before the day of the interview and must be certified. OSD
posts will be remunerated in accordance with relevant directives. Please note: It is
the responsibility of a person in possession of a foreign qualification to furnish the
Department with an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Applications should be forwarded in time
to the Department, since applications received after the closing date indicated
below will, as a rule, not be accepted. It will be expected of candidates to be
available for interviews on a date and time and at a place as determined by the
Department. Please note if you have not heard from us within three (03) months
after the closing, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. NB: Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme Certificate: No applicant shall be
recommended for appointment without producing a Certificate of completion for the
Nyukela Programme (SMS Pre-Entry Programme) offered by the National School
of Government which can be accessed via this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3)
SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive
capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity.
Appointment of the successful candidate(s) will be strictly subject to the Personnel
Suitability Checks results/outcome before appointment. Failure to comply with the
above requirements will result in the disqualification of the application. The
applicants should state the applicable reference number with the relevant post.
Candidates requiring additional information regarding the advertised post must
direct their conditions enquiries to the relevant person indicated on enquiries.
Directions On How To Fill In The New Z83 Form NB: Candidate should note the
following information on the new Z83 application form: All fields of the Z83 are
compulsory, and the applicant’s signature is mandatory. The Z83 must be
completed in full and signed for an applicant to be considered. The form must be
completed in manner that provides sufficient information about the candidate, and
the post applies for by completing all relevant fields. The questions related to
conditions that prevent re-appointment under part F must be answered, it requires
an applicant to specify if any may prevent re-employment in the public service.
Applicants currently employed by the public service do not need to complete the
section intended for those seeking re-employment. The Z83 form must be
completed in full and signed in order for an applicant to be considered. Part A, B,
C and D applicants may leave questions blank, mark them as not relevant, and
uses dashes or N/A if they do not apply to them or the position they are applying
for. The initials on the second page, where the signature is situated, are not
mandatory. NB: The Department reserves the right not to make appointments.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 22/463 : DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNING REF NO: 01/26-27
Chief Directorate: Development and Planning
Directorate: Municipal Development Planning
Job Purpose: To administer implementation of municipal Development planning
services.
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum. (all-inclusive remuneration package) (Level13)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12/Degree(NQF7) in Local Government/Development Studies/Public
Administration/Public Management/Governance/Town Planning/Urban and
Regional Planning/Spatial Planning/Environmental Science/Social
Science/Economics/Surveying/Geographic Information Systems/ as recognised by
SAQA. Minimum of 5 years relevant experience in Local Government and
270
Municipal environment at Middle/senior Management Level. Nyukela SMS Pre-
Entry Certificate submitted prior to appointment, A valid driver’s license.
Competencies/Knowledge/Skills: In-depth knowledge of Municipal Structure Act,
Municipal Finance Management Act, Municipal Systems Act, Municipal By-Laws,
Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act, Development Facilitation Act,
Inter-governmental Relations Framework Act, Public Finance Management Act,
Public Service Act and Regulations, National Development Plan, Municipal
Planning Processes, systems and timeframes, Integrated Development Planning
alignment Processes, Integrated Urban Development Framework, Rural and
Urban Development Policies, Land Tenure systems and Property Law, Leadership
and People Management, Strategic Planning and Coordination, Analytical and
Research, Conflict Management and Resolution, Communication and Stakeholder
Engagement, Project and Programme Management, Policy Interpretation and
development, Report Writing and Presentation, Computer Literacy, Facilitation,
Financial Management.
DUTIES : Coordinate development, review and alignment of municipal five-year Strategic
Integrated Development plan. Coordinate implementation of Local Economic
Development Planning. Coordinate the Provincial Spatial Development Framework
and ensure alignment with Municipal Spatial Development Frameworks.
Coordinate administration of Spatial Planning and Land Use Management
(SPLUMA). Coordinate implementation of District Development Model, One Plans
and Catalytic projects. Facilitate development and review of Land Use Schemes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ramagaga, tel. (018) 388 5890
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENT, CONSERVATION, AND TOURISM
It is the Department ‘s intention to promote Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action Employer and is
committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and equity in employment, especially in respect
of race, gender and disability. White males and females are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Completed application forms and the Comprehensive CV quoting the relevant
reference number, may either be hand-delivered to Department of Economic
Development, Environment, Conservation and Tourism, NWDC Building, Cnr
University Drive and Provident Street, Mmabatho, 2745. or E-mail:
dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026
NOTES : Application must be submitted on a newly subscribed Z83 Form, obtainable from
any Public Service Department, which must be signed and dated (and unsigned
and not dated Z83 form will disqualify an application) and must be accompanied
by a recently up-dated, comprehensive CV, including the details of at least three
contactable referees (should be people who recently worked with the applicant).
Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by
an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). It
is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit all the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will
be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not being contacted within six
(6) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to personnel
suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship verification, financial/asset
record check, qualification/study verification and previous employment
verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to security clearance
processes. The Department reserves the right not to make appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). No faxed and late applications will be considered. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and interview.
Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS
candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive
capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity.
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service (SMS Pre Entry Certificate)
is required prior to finalization of an appointment into any SMS post. For more
details on the pre-entry course visit: https: www.thensg.gov.za/training -
course/sms-pre-entry programme. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Successful applicants will be required to enter into an employment
contract and a performance agreement. Disclosure of financial interests is the
requirement.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 22/464 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC PLANNING REF NO: 01/DEDECT/2026/NW
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (level 14) All-Inclusive Remuneration Package): 60% or
70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
271
CENTRE : Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in the field of Business
Economics / Economic Planning or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA
Postgraduate qualification(s) in the Economics field of study will be an added
advantage Extensive experience in the field of economic development, export and
investment promotion Knowledge and understanding of the economic
development sector, as well as, industry development Experience of conducting
economic development research A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a senior
management level or equivalent to SMS level from other sectors A valid driver’s
license. Competencies: Financial management Strategic capability and leadership
Programme and Project management Change management Knowledge
Management Service Delivery Innovation problem solving and Analysis People
management and Empowerment Client orientation and customer focus
Communication Honesty and Integrity Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Perform functions as a Chief Economist Develop and implement interventions and
strategies to stimulate economic growth and development through industry
development, trade and investment promotion Facilitate and co-ordinate the
development of the major Provincial economic sectors (agro processing,
manufacturing, mining beneficiation, tourism and green economy) Facilitate the
support of industries in order to contribute to the acceleration of economic growth
rate Address the millennium development goals, national and provincial goals of
job creation and the constitutional mandate Facilitate and undertake research that
will inform the development and review of economic development plans, policies
and strategies in alignment with national and provincial priorities Conduct research
and feasibility studies on prospective projects in terms of, inter alia, technical,
socio-economic, environmental and financial management and market processes
to aid decision-making about the type of project support and links to sector
development Manage the implementation of broad economic strategies and other
imperative initiatives to transform the provincial economy e.g. Special Economic
Zones (SEZ), Black industrialists and Industrial parks Develop and implement key
economic sectors strategies that influence provincial economy growth and
development Facilitate and manage creation of an enabling environment for key
Provincial industries that have the potential to significantly contribute to job
creation, skills development, establishment and growth of small medium and large
business and support BBBEE through rural and township economy within the four
districts of the Province To enhance the competitiveness of the province’s priority
economic sectors and ensure that they can compete within a global, continental
and international scale Manage strategic projects and partnership/ service level
agreements with key stakeholders in provincial prioritised economic sectors and
ensure that are successful completed within budgetary timelines and performance
requirements Manage the performance of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. E. Mofokane - Tel: (018) 388 5823
POST 22/465 : CHIEF DIRECTOR – CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: 02/ DEDECT/2026/NW
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (level 14) All-Inclusive Remuneration Package): 60% or
70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at a senior management level or equivalent to
SMS level from other sectors. A valid driver’s license. In-depth knowledge and
understanding of corporate services management in public service. Competencies:
Strategic capability and leadership skills. Programme and project management
skills. Financial management skills. Change management skills. Knowledge
management skills. Service delivery innovation skills. Problem-solving and
analysis skills. People management and empowerment skills. Client orientation
and customer focus. Communication skills. Honesty and integrity. Networking and
presentation skills. Computer skills. Excellent, in-depth knowledge of and insight
into all applicable policy frameworks governing the public sector.
DUTIES : Oversee the rendering of Human Resource Management & Development Services
within the Department. Manage the provision of strategic support and
administration services. Oversee the legal support services of the Department.
Oversee security compliance and transformation within the Department. Oversee
the management of ICT Corporate communication and Knowledge management
within the Department. Ensure departmental compliance to the PAIA and POPIA.
Monitor Communications Services within the Department. Coordinate strategic
planning cycle, strategic and business plans. Collate organizational performance
reports quarterly and annually. Manage and provide support services to the entire
department. Manage information by ensuring that all information in the department
is secure/accessible/reliable and properly recorded. Minimize risk to the
department by ensuring that controls for all internal processes are in place.
Develop and implement efficient reporting systems to ensure optimal internal
decision-making for management. Manage the departmental PMDS for Senior
Management Services in line with the Annual Performance Plan and
272
implementation plan as well as annual report. Provide financial and personnel
leadership and ensure overall management and control of the Chief Directorate
Corporate Services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. E. Mofokane - Tel. (018) 388 5823
POST 22/466 : CHIEF DIRECTOR – INTEGRATED ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SERVICES
(IEDS)
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (level 14) All-inclusive Remuneration Package): 60% or
70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) in Economics / Economic
Development / Economic Management and Analysis / Business Entrepreneurship
or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA. Postgraduate qualification (s)
in the afore-mentioned fields of study will be an added advantage. A minimum of 5
years’ experience at a senior management level or equivalent to SMS level from
other sectors. A valid driver’s license. Competencies: Financial management,
Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project management,
Change management, Knowledge management, Service delivery innovation,
Problem solving and Analysis, People management and Empowerment, Client
orientation and customer focus, Communication, Honesty and Integrity. Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Manage the contribution by the Department to the local economic growth and
development. Identify regulatory burdens that negatively affect business
development. Manage strategic projects and partnership / service delivery level
agreements with key stakeholders in the sector and ensure that they are
successfully completed within the budgetary timelines and performance
requirements. Manage the empowerment of enterprises of the designated groups
with the aim of addressing economic disparities. Manage the implementation of
broad economic strategies and other imperative initiatives to transform the
provincial economy. Conduct viability and financial management and market
processes to aid decision-making about the type of project support and links to
support programmes. Assess the impact on increased coordination and
partnership regarding funding of enterprises (SMMEs and Cooperatives). Facilitate
the alignment of all procurement policies to empower Cooperatives and SMMEs at
provincial and local levels. Ensure proper implementation of incubation and skills
development programme to sustain small business in the province. Manage the
implementation of Departmental Risk Management policy. Collaborate
with municipalities through their integrated development plans to develop and
implement enterprise development programmes towards improved Local
Economic Development. Manage the provision of technical support to
the Province and municipalities during the implementation of Small Business
Portfolio programmes within the districts / municipalities (DDM). Manage and
ensure effective and efficient utilisation of the financial, human and physical
resources of the Chief Directorate in line with
the applicable legislation. Communication (verbal, written and
formal presentations, etc) with stakeholders from diverse backgrounds and deliver
relevant information.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. E. Mofokane - Tel: (018) 388 5823
POST 22/467 : CHIEF DIRECTOR – BUSINESS REGULATORY AND CONSUMER
PROTECTION (BUSREG)
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Salary level 14) All-inclusive Remuneration Package):
60% or 70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) in Business Administration /
Business Management / LLB or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA.
Postgraduate qualification(s) in the afore-mentioned field of study will be an added
advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ relevant experience at a senior management
level or equivalent to SMS level from other sectors. Valid driver’s license.
Competencies: Financial management. Strategic capability and leadership.
Programme and project management. Change management. Knowledge
management. Service delivery innovation. Problem-solving and analysis. People
management People management and empowerment. Client orientation and
customer focus. Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Oversee an enabling regulatory environment that supports economic growth.
Oversee compliance level on liquor licensing. Oversee compliance on business
licensing. Oversee the programme adherence to the maintenance of effective and
efficient transparent systems of financial management and effective management
of risks. Oversee the contribution by the Business Regulations sector to job
creation and regulation of informal businesses. Oversee implementation of
economic programmes. Manage and implement consumer protection and
regulatory strategies, administration of liquor and business regulation.
273
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. E. Mofokane - Tel: (018) 388 5823
POST 22/468 : DIRECTOR – HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (level 13) All-inclusive Remuneration Package): 60% or
70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) in Human Resource Management
/ Public Administration / Public Management / Industrial Psychology or equivalent
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years’ relevant experience
at a middle/senior management level or equivalent to SMS level from other sectors.
Client focussed HR strategist. A thorough understanding of policy formulation and
coordination. Proven experience in or through understanding Human Capital
Management and broader talent management strategies. A good background in
turnaround and change management strategies. Experience and insight into
legislation that impacts on human resource practices and administration. A valid
driver’s license. Competencies: A result-driven, customer-focused approach, with
excellent planning, organisational communication (written and verbal) and
presentation skills. Analytical and innovative thinking. Knowledge of human and
financial resource management. Good computer literacy in the Microsoft Office
suite (Word, Excel and PowerPoint). The ability to work in highly pressured
environment and driven by a sense of urgency to meet deadlines. Leadership skills.
Research and policy formulation. Presentation and facilitation skills. Executive
report-writing skills. People management. Financial management. Strategic
planning. Project management. Change and knowledge management. Negotiation
skills. Knowledge of Government systems (PERSAL).
DUTIES : Provide leadership and strategic direction in the Directorate. Ensure the provision
of comprehensive organisational development support. Co-ordinate and integrate
the service delivery programmes of the department. Manage and utilise resource
practice and administration. Manage overall employee relations. Develop and
manage employee health and wellness. Manage and co-ordinate human capital
planning, salaries and information systems services that support the departmental
strategy. Design and manage strategic human resource training and development
services. Manage and utilise resources in accordance with relevant directives and
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M. J. Matebesi - Tel: (018) 388 1335
POST 22/469 : DIRECTOR – CONSUMER PROTECTION
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (level 13) All-inclusive Remuneration Package): 60% or
70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) in the related field as recognised
by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years relevant experience at a middle/senior
management level or equivalent to SMS level from other sectors. A valid driver’s
license. Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Programme and
project management. Financial management. Change management. Knowledge
management and empowerment. Client orientation and customer focus.
Communication skills. Honesty and integrity. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and promote measures that ensure the rights and interests of
consumers. Render consumer education and service delivery services. Provide for
prohibition and control of unfair business practices in the interests and protection
of consumers. Investigate consumer complaints. Render consumer affairs court
services. Render consumer education and advisory services. Ensure compliance
and enforcement of legislation related to commence.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K. C. Taoana - Tel: (018) 388 5959
POST 22/470 : DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN AND FLEET MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (level 13) All-inclusive Remuneration Package): 60% or
70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) in Supply Chain Management /
Financial Management / Economic / Auditing or equivalent qualification as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years relevant experience at a middle/senior
management level or equivalent to SMS level from other sectors. Knowledge and
experience in Supply Chain, Assets and Fleet management. Must be computer
literate and must have worked on an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system.
A valid driver’s license. Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership.
Programme and project management. An in-depth knowledge of applicable
financial legislations and regulations, including exposure to Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Broad-based black empowerment
Act, Standards of Generally Recognised accounting Practice and the Public
Finance Management Act. Knowledge and understanding of Government
274
imperatives and priorities. Knowledge and understanding of the white paper on the
transformation of public service delivery (Batho Pele). Proven leadership,
management, project management, communication, interpersonal, conflict
resolution, analytical and financial management skills. Must be able to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction, leadership and management regarding Supply Chain,
Asset and Fleet Management functions. Develop, manage and execute the key
strategic objectives and business plans of the Supply Chain, Asset and Fleet
Management. Ensure the necessary organizational capacity is created and
managed for delivery on core operational requirements. Manage the performance
of the unit to ensure quality service delivery and achievement of key strategic
objectives. Ensure effective financial and human resources management.
Interpret, understand and implement Supply Chain Management and asset
management as contained in relevant legislation, regulations and GRAP
standards. Develop and implement relevant policies and procedures with respect
to Supply Chain, Asset and Fleet Management. Develop and implement internal
control procedures to ensure the effective functioning of the unit and management
of risk. Ensure sound contract management systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K. C. Molosiwa -Tel: (018) 388 5922
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
The North West Provincial Treasury is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action Employer and is committed
to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and equity in employment, especially in respect of race,
gender, and disability. Women, People with Disabilities and Youth are encouraged to apply as the targeted
groups as per our employment equity plan. The Employment Equity Plan for the Department will be
considered when filling vacant positions. It is our intention to promote representivity.
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be forwarded to: The Director: Human Resource Management,
North West Provincial Treasury, Private Bag X2060, Mmabatho 2735, marked for
attention: N Marengwa, K Chuma, L Rapodile, or S Nage, 2nd Floor, Garona
Building. You can also email your application to ptvacancies@nwpg.gov.za. The
maximum limit is 35MB for applications to be transmitted successfully, otherwise
you will have to send more than one email. When you submit by email, please put
the reference number and post job title in the subject line. The reference number
should be indicated on the application. If you apply for more than 1 post, please
submit separate applications for each post that you apply for. Applications should
be submitted on time. Applications received after the closing date will not be
accepted and considered.
CLOSING DATE : 10th July 2026
NOTES : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and be submitted on the
NEW Z83 form, obtainable from any Public Service Department or the DPSA
website at https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ Should an application be
received using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83), it will not be
considered. The Z83 must be fully completed and signed and accompanied by a
comprehensive/ detailed recent Curriculum Vitae (including full particulars of
training, qualifications, certificates, skills, competencies, and knowledge, specific
starting and ending dates in all relevant positions and clarity on the levels and ranks
pertaining to experience as compared to the Public Service). At least three
contactable referees should be provided. (Telephone numbers and email
addresses must be indicated). Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83
and a detailed curriculum vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of Identity Document, Qualifications, and training
certificates as well as a driver’s license where necessary. This must be submitted
on or before the day of the interviews. Non-SA citizens who are shortlisted must
submit a copy of proof of permanent residence in South Africa on or before the day
of the interviews. Failure to do so will result in your application being disqualified.
Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report on the
qualification. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications
evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such an evaluation report (only when
shortlisted). It will be expected of candidates to be available for interviews and
assessments on the date and time and at a place as determined by the
Department. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks. The successful candidate will be subjected to undergo security vetting.
The Department will conduct reference checks which may include social media
profiles of the shortlisted candidates. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS,
shall undertake to pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive results of the security
clearance process. The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and sign a performance agreement with the Department. All
applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to
disclose memberships of Boards and Directorships that they may be associated
275
with and declare any business they had or are conducting with an Organ of State.
It will be required by employees who fall within the designated groups to do
financial disclosures to submit such within three months of their appointment.
Failure to comply with the above requirements will result in the disqualification of
the application. Due to the large number of applications, we envisage receiving,
applications will not be acknowledged. Should you not be contacted within three
(3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right to cancel the
recruitment process and not fill a position or re-advertise the posts at any time in
the future. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/471 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER REF NO: NWFIN/2026/01 (2 POSTS)
Programme: Administration
Sub Programme: Corporate Services
Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
Sub Directorate: HR Administration and Practices
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advanced Certificate in HR/ Public
Administration/ Social Sciences or equivalent NQF 6 qualification. Two (2) years’
relevant experience in a recruitment environment as well as practical working
PERSAL experience. PERSAL Introduction Certificate is compulsory. Application
of resources as well as understanding of relevant legislative framework and variety
of work changes and procedures governing Public Service such as, but not limited
to Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Employee
Equity Act and any other relevant prescripts and policies guiding HR practices in
Government. Analytical thinking, creative and innovative. Good communication
and presentation skills. Computer and report writing skills. Ability to work under
pressure. The ability to interpret and apply policies. Ability to conduct research.
The ability to function independently and work as part of the team. Good
interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Implement Recruitment and Selection processes in the Department by advertising
of vacant posts, selection and interviews. Implement and do personnel suitability
checks and verification of qualifications. Implement personnel utilization and
mobilization processes on PERSAL by implementing appointments, promotions,
transfers, movements and relocations. Assist MMS and SMS with structuring of
salary packages and implementation on PERSAL. Update basic information of
employees on PERSAL. Request exit interview questionnaires and do exit
interviews. Assist with the appointment of employees on development
programmes. Address HR enquiries related to HR Practices.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Marengwa Tel: (018) 388 3490
POST 22/472 : COMMUNICATION OFFICER REF NO: NWFIN/2026/02
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Corporate Services
Sub Directorate: Communication Services
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or a Bachelor’s Degree in Communications/
Public Relations/ Journalism or equivalent NQF 6 qualification. A minimum of two
(2) years’ practical experience in a communication environment. Candidates must
demonstrate strong media liaison skills and have a solid understanding of
government legislative frameworks. Experience in website content management,
digital publishing, content management systems and the distribution of government
information through digital platforms. Ability to work independently but also be a
team player. Good interpersonal, communication, analytical ability, research,
report writing, people, facilitation, and presentation skills. Computer literacy in MS
Office packages. A valid Driver’s license. The incumbent must be willing to travel
extensively and work irregular hours.
DUTIES : Assist with management of public relations and promote departmental programs
to the public. Handle media inquiries, Media Monitoring, write media advisories and
media statements, plan for press conferences and management of media
databases. Track daily news coverage and analyse public perceptions of the
department. Manage official social media accounts, website content, and digital
campaigns and articles for external newsletters. Capture high-quality photographs
and coordinate video recordings during official events.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Gill Tel: (018) 388 3584/ 1363
276
POST 22/473 : HARDWARE TECHNICIAN REF NO: NWFIN/2026/03 (2 POSTS)
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Corporate Services
Directorate: Information Communication Technology
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or advanced certificate in IT or equivalent NQF
6 qualification. A bachelor’s degree in IT (NQF7) will be an added advantage as
well as the following certificates: A+, N+ CISCO & CCNA. A minimum of two (2)
years’ relevant practical experience in an IT environment. A valid driver’s license.
It will be expected that the official will travel. Infrastructure technology and software
configuration requirements. Network operating systems. Knowledge of methods,
tools and equipment used in computer testing, repairs and maintenance.
Troubleshooting skills and experience in Microsoft platforms. Knowledge of Entra-
ID and Windows/Linux Platform. Good telephone etiquette. Report Writing skills,
problem solving skills, project management skills, and team player.
DUTIES : Attend and Resolve Information Technology related action requests. Attend and
resolve network related calls immediately. Initiate and participate in ICT projects
and implementation of projects within timelines i.e. M365 or any 4IR technology.
Render information security, back-up, and recovery. Conduct user awareness
workshops. Perform hardware and software audits. Ensure efficient and timeously
communication with officials regarding Incidents and logged calls.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K. Gill Tel: (018) 388 3584/1363
POST 22/474 : SENIOR MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTANT REF NO: NWFIN/2026/04
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Financial Management
Sub Directorate: Management Accounting Services
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advanced Certificate in Finance/ Cost and
Management Accounting/ Accounting or equivalent NQF 6 qualification. A
minimum of two (2) years’ relevant experience in a budget management
environment. Sound analytical thinking and problem-solving skills. Good
communication (verbal and written) and interpersonal skills. Creative and
innovative skills. Ability to work independently and in a team. Sound Report writing.
Compliance with deadlines. Ability to work under pressure with minimum errors.
Extensive knowledge of Budget Process, Budget Management, Revenue
management, Expenditure Management, Financial prescripts, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury regulations. Computer literacy – MS Power
Point, Word and Excel. In-debt knowledge of Government systems (BAS, Walker
and Vulindlela) will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Consolidate, check, collect and prepare financial supporting information for
completion of the budgeting process (MTEF). Coordinate the process of
management and monitoring of cashflow, budget, revenue and expenditure
(departmental spending) and report on budget deviations (variances) and report to
the Manager on a regular basis. Facilitate the process of loading of Departmental
budget (MTEF), adjustment budget estimates (AEPRE), prepare requests of
budget shifts/virement, and any roll-over in the BAS System. Monitor any
underspending/ overspending of budget and expenditure and report to the
Manager on a regular basis. Compile and verify the accuracy of In- Year Monitoring
(IYM) monthly and quarterly reports and submit them to the Manager for checking.
Supervise and assess performance of sub-ordinates and the departmental budget
queries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Makgopa Tel: (018) 388 1066
POST 22/475 : SENIOR ASSET MANAGEMENT OFFICER REF NO: NWFIN/2026/05
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Financial Management
Sub Directorate: Asset Management
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advance Certificate in SCM/ Logistics
Management/ Asset Management/ Finance or equivalent NQF 6 qualification with
two (2) years’ experience. A Degree (NQF 7) will be an added advantage. Ability
to interpret and apply policies. Analytical and innovative thinking. Research, Report
writing, Workshop presentation and facilitation. Adaptability during changes to
meet the goals. Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application
of resources as well as understanding of legislative framework and variety of work
ranges and procedures governing the public service such as: Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act, Basic
277
Conditions of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Promotion of Access of
Information Act, Medium Term Strategic Framework, Government Financial
Systems. Valid drivers’ license. It will be expected of the official to travel
DUTIES : Update and maintain the assets and database register. Conduct and control the
movements of assets. Identify surplus, obsolete, and underperforming assets.
Maintain a disposal plan, supervision and staff management, Loss Control and
Risk management. Perform general supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Mr KO Molamu Tel: (018) 388 3240
POST 22/476 : SENIOR SCM OFFICER REF NO: NWFIN/2026/06 (2 POSTS)
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Financial Management Services
Sub Directorate: Logistics Management
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advanced Certificate in SCM or Logistics
Environment/ Advanced Procurement Management or equivalent NQF 6
qualification. As a minimum two (2) years relevant experience in a SCM
environment. Knowledge of Walker System. Knowledge of prescripts governing
Supply Chain Management (PFMA, PPPFA and its Regulations, Treasury
Regulations as well the Public Service Regulations). Computer Literacy. Ability to
work under pressure. Ability to work independently and as part of the team. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Problem solving and analysis skills.
Report writing. Ability to interpret and apply policies. Financial management,
conflict management, flexibility, change/diversity management and supervision
skills.
DUTIES : Sending purchase orders to suppliers. Manage the 0 - 9 files and follow-up with
suppliers on outstanding stock. Manage the delivery of goods and services (quality,
quantity and correctness). Prepare order batches for payments. Filling and record
keeping of receipts and vouchers. Ensure that all purchases are made according
to existing delegations. Liaise with suppliers to track and expedite open orders and
address discrepancies, ensuring effective resolution of any procurement issues.
Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports. Ensure processing of invoices
within 30 days. Supervise the receive and dispatch section. Personnel supervision
and performance assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Tsotetsi Tel: (018) 388 2589
POST 22/477 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT – CREDITORS PAYMENT REF NO:
NWFIN/2026/07
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Financial Management Services
Sub Directorate: Logistics Management
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advanced Certificate in SCM or Logistics
Environment/ Advanced Procurement Management or equivalent NQF 6
qualification. As a minimum two (2) years’ relevant experience in a SCM/ Creditors
Payment environment. Knowledge of Walker System. Knowledge of prescripts
governing Supply Chain Management (PFMA, PPPFA and its Regulations,
Treasury Regulations as well the Public Service Regulations). Computer Literacy.
Ability to work under pressure, independently and as part of the team. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Problem solving and analysis skills.
Report writing. Ability to interpret and apply policies. Financial management,
conflict management, change/diversity management and supervision skills.
DUTIES : Implement effective supply chain management procedures and policies. Verify
compliance of payment vouchers before processing. Authorize creditors’ payments
on the system. Facilitate processing of creditors payments within 30 days.
Respond to queries arising from creditors reconciliation. Authorize submitted
claims on the procurement system. Administration of Petty Cash. Reconciliation of
contract payments. Register and keep record of all incoming and outgoing payment
vouchers. Preparation and submission of monthly and quarterly reports. Personnel
supervision and their performance assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Tsotetsi Tel: (018) 388 2589
POST 22/478 : SENIOR SCM OFFICER REF NO: NWFIN/2026/08
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Financial Management
Sub Directorate: Demand and Acquisition Management
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
278
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or advanced certificate in SCM/ Logistics
Management/ Finance/ Accounting or equivalent NQF 6 qualification. As a
minimum two (2) years relevant experience in a SCM/ Demand/ Acquisition
environment. Knowledge of RT contracts (transversal contracts). Knowledge of
prescripts governing Supply Chain Management (PFMA, PPPFA and its
Regulations, Treasury Regulations as well the Public Service Regulations).
Computer Literacy. Ability to work under pressure, independently and as part of
the team. Good communication skills (verbal and written). Problem solving and
analysis skills. Report writing. Ability to interpret and apply policies. Financial
management, conflict management, change/diversity management and
supervision skills.
DUTIES : Conducting of total needs assessment. Ensure compliance of requisition in line
with departmental policies. Facilitate the secretariat services to the departmental
SCM bid committees. Determination of procurement methods and specifications
for procurement goods or service and IT related procurement. Facilitate payments
of all invoices for RT contracts and related procedures. Compilation of the
procurement and demand plans. Monitor implementation and reporting of
procurement and demand plans. Facilitate reporting of SCM information at relevant
reporting dates. Review sourcing strategies and recommend ways to improve
implementation of section 217 of the RSA constitution. Supervise the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mkhize Tel: (018) 388 4060
POST 22/479 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: NWFIN/2026/09
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Financial Management Services
Sub Directorate: Salary Management (Claims Payments and Reconciliation)
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advanced Certificate in Finance/ Accounting
or equivalent NQF 6 qualification. Minimum of two (2) years relevant experience in
a salary management or Claims, Payments and Reconciliation environment. An
NQF 7 qualification will be an added advantage. A PERSAL Certificate for PERSAL
Introduction is compulsory. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury regulations. Financial Manual, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act and Guide on Managing Departmental Debt. Computer literacy – Word, Excel
and PowerPoint are important. Working knowledge of government systems (BAS,
Walker, PERSAl) will be an added advantage. Job Knowledge, Communication,
Interpersonal relations. Flexibility and Teamwork. Computer skills, planning and
organization and communication (written and verbal) skills. Conflict management
skills. Self-driven and results orientated, should be able to deliver under pressure.
DUTIES : Supervise and undertake more complex implementation of relevant legislation,
policies, procedures and regulations related to Debtors and Expenditure.
Reconcile all Salary Control accounts appearing on the Department’s Suspense
account. Check remunerated leave gratuities and leave discounting payments and
check leave gratuity calculations before they are captured on PERSAL for
payments. Check and assist with all salary recons. Check that all Accounts are
cleared with journals on a monthly basis. Ensure all Take-On-Debts are done and
make follow-up on all long outstanding debts. Compile interdepartmental claims.
Make sure that all salaries are recalled and reversed. Provide regular reports
regarding work progress within the unit. Provide input and recommendations to the
supervisor on work-related matters. Participate in policy development and
maintenance as well as unit wide projects. Supervision of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Molamu Tel: (018) 388 3260
POST 22/480 : ETHICS OFFICER REF NO: NWFIN/2026/10
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Management Support
Sub Directorate: Enterprise Risk and Integrity Management
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advanced Certificate in Risk Management /
Ethics or Integrity Management / Internal Audit / Finance or Accounting, or
equivalent NQF 6 qualification. A minimum of two (2) years’ relevant experience in
an Ethics / Integrity Management environment. Certified Ethics Officer Certification
will be an added advantage. Conversant with the Public Service Act and Public
Service Regulations. Conversant with the Public Administration Management Act.
Conversant with the Protected Disclosure Act and Regulations Relating to
Protected Disclosures. Conversant with the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt
Activities Act. Conversant with the Public Service Code of Conduct. Conversant
with Directives on Other Remunerative Work Outside the Public Service, Financial
Disclosures and Conducting Business with an Organ of State. Excellent
279
interpersonal skills and stakeholder relations management. Good coordination and
facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Process applications to conduct other remunerative work as prescribed. Manage
declaration of gifts. Support designated officials on financial disclosures, conduct
verification and prepare verification reports. Arrange and facilitate training and
awareness workshops on the Public Service Code of Conduct, gifts, financial
disclosures, lifestyle audits, other remunerative work outside public service and
conducting business with an organ of state. Perform administrator functions on the
financial disclosure system, gifts register, other remunerative work register, and
case management register. Perform administrative support services to the Ethics
Committee including being the secretariat of the committee. Confidential data
handling and record keeping. Advice staff on ethical matters. Perform
administrative functions as delegated.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O.I Thwane Tel: (018) 388 1307
POST 22/481 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT (NGA) REF NO: NWFIN/2026/11
Programme: Financial Governance
Sub-Programme: Accounting Services
Directorate: Transversal Accounting & Support
SALARY : R413 001 –R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advanced Certificate in Finance/ Accounting,
or equivalent NQF level 6 qualification. A Degree Qualification or NQF level 7 will
be an added advantage. Minimum of two (2) years’ relevant experience in Public
Finance. Sound knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations, Walker Financial Management System, Public Service Act and Public
Service Regulations. Problem-solving, conflict and change management, Client
orientation and customer focus. The successful candidate should have ability to
work independently and within a dynamic team. Ability to facilitate workshops /
training. ability to interpret and apply policies and other prescripts. Must be
computer literate, have good inter – personal relations, excellent communications
(verbal and written). Honesty and integrity are important.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of systems and processes to ensure integrity of
financial data. Assess and report on compliance with accounting related legislative
requirements. Facilitate the provision of all financial information on all operational
aspects of Traditional Councils. Perform reconciliation between the cash book and
the bank statement. Clear unreconciling items and the suspense account. Prepare
relevant journals. Perform manual reconciliation of investments and prepare
relevant investment journals. Maintain proper document control over all bank
reconciliations and bank related supporting documentation. Review statement of
receipt and payments from Traditional Authorities against information in the Walker
system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Soofie / Mr. M Legodi Tel: (018) 388 3266/4312
POST 22/482 : INTERNAL AUDITOR REF NO: NWFIN/2026/12 (7 POSTS)
Programme: Financial Governance Services
Sub-Programme: Internal Audit
Directorate: Risk Based Audits
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advanced Certificate in Accounting/ Auditing
or equivalent NQF 6 qualification. As a minimum two (2) years’ relevant experience
in risk-based auditing. A postgraduate degree or a professional qualification/
designation such as Internal Audit Technician or Professional Internal Auditor or
General Internal Auditor or Certified Internal Auditor or Chartered Accountant will
be an added advantage. Knowledge of the Global Internal Audit Standards (GIAS),
PFMA, Treasury Regulations and Internal Audit Methodology. A valid driver/s
license is a necessity. Will be required to travel. A good understanding of
Government processes and the role and function of internal audit in the public
sector. Report writing and communication skills. The ability to work in a team.
Computer literacy. Time Management. Identification of appropriate and value
adding audit criteria and root causes.
DUTIES : Identify and collect information relevant to the activity under review, the audit
objectives and audit scope, document the system description and assist with the
identification of risk and related controls that address risk. Provide input into the
drafting of auditing programs. Execute approved audit programs. Manage the
performance of assigned work within the required timeframe and budget.
Document audit findings, including appropriate root cause identification and
recommendations and assist/support with the discussions of the findings. Ensure
that work performed fully complies with the GIAS and Quality Assurance
Improvement Program of the unit. Respond to coaching notes. Keep time records.
Give guidance to junior team members. Perform PMDS requirements.
280
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Nel Tel: (018) 388 1616
POST 22/483 : SENIOR NORMS AND STANDARDS PRACTITIONER REF NO: NWFIN/2026/13
(3 POSTS)
Programme: Financial Governance
Sub-Programme: Norms and Standards
Sub Directorate: Monitoring and Compliance
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advanced Certificate in Finance/Accounting,
or equivalent NQF 6 qualification. NQF 7 will be an added advantage. Minimum of
two (2) years’ relevant experience in an accounting or auditing environment. Must
have a valid driver's license as it will be required to travel. Having completed
articles will serve as an advantage. A thorough knowledge and understanding of
the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, General
Recognised Accounting Practise Standards, Modified Cash Standards and
International Financial Reporting Standards. Sound analytical and problem-solving
skills. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Client orientation and
customer focus. Creative and innovative. Ability to work independently and in a
team. Sound Report writing and computer skills. Implement effective actions and
processes to ensure that deadlines are met. Ability to work under pressure. Proven
leadership qualities with strong strategic and operational thinking. High level of
integrity.
DUTIES : Rendering the following support to the North West Provincial Departments,
Legislature and State-Owned Entities: financial accounting functions, audit related
functions, compliance related functions within the finance divisions, assisting with
strengthening internal controls, providing support on all audit related issues,
evaluating and reviewing Post Audit Action Plans. Provide advice and reviews on
the preparation and submission of interim and annual financial statements. Advise
Departments and Public Entities on compliance matters, including unauthorised,
irregular and fruitless and wasteful expenditure, and conduct technical reviews on
Irregular Expenditure condonation submissions to the Provincial Treasury. To
perform any other duties that might be expected from time to time.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Soofie Tel: (018) 388 3266
POST 22/484 : BUDGET ANALYST REF NO: NWFIN/2026/14 (2 POSTS)
Programme: Sustainable Resource Management
Sub-Programme: budget Management
Directorate: Budget Management
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advanced Certificate in Commerce/ Financial
Management / Accounting or equivalent NQF 6 qualifications. A minimum of two
(2) years’ relevant experience in financial management/accounting, budget and
expenditure management, compilation, monitoring, analysis and reporting
environments. NQF 7 will be an added advantage. Must have a valid driver's
license as travelling will be required. Conversant with the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Division of Revenue Act (DoRA).
Acquainted with Budget and Expenditure Management, Accounting and Reporting.
Knowledge on Government systems (BAS, Walker, PERSAL, Vulindlela) would be
an added advantage. Computer Literacy in Excel, Word, PowerPoint. Sound
analytical, problem solving, effective oral and writing skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the evaluation of the MTEF budget submissions of the Provincial
Departments and Public Entities. Assist with the Provincial Main and Adjustment
Appropriation processes, prior to final provincial allocations and its alignment with
the Provincial Fiscal Framework. Receive and check the Departmental Budget
submissions to ensure that they are numerically accurate as per Financial System
(BAS), Budget Allocations. Appropriation Statements, DoRA, etc. Draw monthly
budget and expenditure reports from the Financial System (BAS), PERSAL and
Vulindlela and update the required Budget and Expenditure Tables and Models.
Analyse and prepare reports on the monthly and quarterly In-Year Monitoring
(IYM), Section (40) submissions received on budgets and expenditure trends of
Provincial Departments and Public Entities. Monitor and report on all national
Conditional Grants received and their corresponding expenditure. Check and verify
that the budget and expenditure items are correctly categorized according to their
economic classifications. Provide financial management support to the
departments with respect to planning, budgeting, reporting, relevant legislation,
policies and other financial processes. Perform generic administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Sidumo/ Mr. E. Abrahams Tel: (018) 388 2227/ 388 3709
POST 22/485 : BUDGET ANALYSTS REF NO: NWFIN/2026/15 (3 POSTS)
Programme: Sustainable Resource Management
281
Sub-Programme: Public Finance
Directorate: Public Finance
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501.per annum (Level 8)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advanced Certificate in Commerce/ Financial
Management / Accounting or equivalent NQF 6 qualifications. A minimum of two
(2) years’ relevant experience in financial management/accounting, budget and
expenditure management, compilation, monitoring, analysis and reporting
environments. NQF 7 will be an added advantage. Must have a valid driver's
license as travelling will be required. Conversant with the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Division of Revenue Act (DoRA).
Acquainted with Budget and Expenditure Management, Accounting and Reporting.
Knowledge on Government systems (BAS, Walker, PERSAL, Vulindlela) would be
an added advantage. Computer Literacy in Excel, Word, PowerPoint. Sound
analytical, problem solving, effective oral and writing skills.
DUTIES : Draw monthly budget and expenditure reports from the Financial System (BAS),
PERSAL and Vulindlela and upload, update the required Budget and Expenditure
Tables and Models. Assist to consolidate the Provincial Main and Adjustment
Appropriation processes and its alignment with the Provincial Fiscal Framework.
Receive and check the Departmental Budget and Expenditure submissions to
ensure that they are numerically accurate as per Financial System (BAS), Budget
Allocations and Appropriation Statements, DoRA, etc. Verify that the budget and
expenditure items are correctly categorised according to their economic
classifications. Verify both sections (32) and (40) information to ensure synergy
with Provincial IYM submissions. Monitoring and reporting on all National
Conditional Grants received and their corresponding expenditure. Compile
personnel analysis reports of provincial departments. Report on departmental
earmarked funds, virements and shifts in the system to ensure that they are in line
with legislative requirements. Maintain and ensure proper management of financial
data and records. Perform generic administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Sidumo/ Ms. B. Moalosi Tel: (018) 388 2227/ 388 3999
POST 22/486 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: NWFIN/2026/16
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Corporate Services
Directorate: Records Management
SALARY : R338 10 – R398 277. per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a Grade 12 with two (2) years relevant experience in Records
Management OR a National Diploma/ Advanced Certificate in Public
Administration/Information Management/Records Management/Library
Management with one (1) year relevant experience in Records Management.
Knowledge of Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of
resources as well as understanding of legislative framework and variety of work
range and procedures governing the records management service such as
National archives and records services of South Africa Act. Promotion of access to
information Act. Public finance management Act. Protection of personal
information Act. The Electronic Communications and Transactions Act. Ability to
interpret and apply policies. Analytical and innovative. Report writing, workshop
presentation and facilitation. Computer literacy and good communication skills.
Ability to function independently and work as part of the team.
DUTIES : Managing the administration of general records and ensuring effective running of
records management. Ensure proper disposal of departmental records, archiving
or destruction. Management of messenger services and handling of
correspondence and mail. Ensure recording of newly opened and closed files
according to the approved file plan. Safe keeping and proper filling of records.
Ensure implementation of records Management Policy and registry procedure
manual. Management of KPA’s of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Kgalapa Tel: (018) 388 4356
POST 22/487 : ASSET MANAGEMENT OFFICER REF NO: NWFIN/2024/17
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Financial Management
Sub Directorate: Asset Management
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a Grade 12 with two (2) years relevant experience in Asset
Management / SCM OR a National Diploma/ Advanced Certificate in SCM/
Logistics Management/ Asset Management/ Finance with one (1) year relevant
experience in Asset Management / SCM. Ability to interpret and apply policies.
Analytical and innovative thinking. Research, Report writing, Workshop
282
presentation and facilitation. Adaptability during changes to meet the goals. Sound
and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of resources as well as
understanding of legislative framework and variety of work ranges and procedures
governing the public service such as: Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Promotion of Access of Information Act,
Medium Term Strategic Framework, Government Financial Systems. A valid
driver’s license as it will be required to travel.
DUTIES : Update and maintain the assets and database register. Conduct and control the
movements of assets. Identify surplus, obsolete and underperforming assets.
Maintain a disposal plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Molamu Tel: (018) 388 3240
POST 22/488 : SCM OFFICER REF NO: NWFIN/2026/18 (2 POSTS)
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Financial Management Services
Directorate: Logistics Management
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277.per annum)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a Grade 12 with two (2) years relevant experience in SCM/ Logistics
Management OR a National Diploma/Advance Certificate in SCM/Logistics
Management/ Advanced Procurement Management (or equivalent NQF 6
qualification) with one (1) year relevant experience SCM/ Logistics Management.
Knowledge of procurement systems (i.e. Walker, Logis). Knowledge of prescripts
governing Supply Chain Management (PFMA, PPPFA and its Regulations,
Treasury Regulations as well the Public Service Regulations). Computer Literacy.
Ability to work under pressure, independently and as part of the team. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Problem solving and analytical skills.
DUTIES : Receive and capture requisitions on procurement system. Ensure that orders are
generated in line with the correct SCOA allocations. Generate purchase orders
from suppliers. Verify compliance with procurement documents before generating
orders. Administration of invoices for payment. Keep registers and records of
orders and submit to receive and dispatch. Attend to internal stakeholders and
suppliers’ inquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Tsotetsi Tel: (018) 388 2589
POST 22/489 : SCM OFFICER (CREDITORS PAYMENT) REF NO: NWFIN/2026/19
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Financial Management Services
Directorate: Logistics Management
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a Grade 12 with two (2) years relevant experience in SCM/ Logistics
Management OR a National Diploma/Advance Certificate in SCM/Logistics
Management/ Advanced Procurement Management (or equivalent NQF 6
qualification) with one (1) year relevant experience in SCM/ Logistics Management.
Knowledge of procurement systems (Walker, Logis), Knowledge of prescripts
governing Supply Chain Management (PFMA, PPPFA and its Regulations,
Treasury Regulations as well the Public Service Regulations). Computer Literacy.
Ability to work under pressure, independently and as part of the team. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Problem solving and analysis skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate processing of creditors’ payments within 30 days. Check for accuracy of
invoice and authenticity of supporting documents attached to the voucher. Capture
invoices on the procurment system. Prepare and submit paid batches for filling.
Respond to queries arising from creditors reconciliation. Process payment of salary
related issues. Verify submitted claims for compliance and process them
accordingly on the procurement system. Register and keep record of payment
batches.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Tsotetsi Tel: (018) 388 2589
POST 22/490 : TRANSPORT OFFICER REF NO: NWFIN/2026/20
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Financial Management Services
Directorate: Logistics Management
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a Grade 12 with two (2) years relevant experience in Transport/
SCM/ Logistics Management OR a National Diploma/Advance Certificate in
Transport/ SCM/ Logistics Management/ Advanced Procurement Management (or
equivalent NQF 6 qualification) with one (1) year relevant experience in Transport/
SCM/ Logistics Management. Valid driver’s license as it will be required to travel.
283
Willingness to work extended hours. Supervisory, Analytical, Good Financial
Management Skills. Computer Literacy (MS Office packages). Communication
(written and verbal) at all levels. Good interpersonal skills. Planning and organizing
skills. Ability to work independently, but also part of a team. Ability to work under
pressure. Ability to gather and analyse information. Flexibility and reliability.
Conflict management.
DUTIES : To provide day-to-day management of vehicles in terms of usage and
maintenance. Ensure that log sheets are controlled and completed for all official
trips. Keep vehicle maintenance schedules and coordinate maintenance
requirements. Provide management with information on vehicle performance.
Compile accident reports and make follow-ups. Process transport payments.
Supervise transport clerks and drivers. Coordinate travel of fleet. Assist with
acquisition and management of subsidized vehicles. Process fuel claims. Assist
with monitoring of Service Level Agreement. Monitor compliance with transport
policy and advise accordingly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Tsotetsi Tel: (018) 388 2589
POST 22/491 : SCM OFFICER REF NO: NWFIN/2026/21 (2 POSTS)
Programme: Administration
Sub-Programme: Financial Management
Directorate: Demand and Acquisition Management
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a Grade 12 with two (2) years relevant experience in SCM/ Logistics/
Demand/ Acquisition/ Procurement Management OR a National Diploma/Advance
Certificate in SCM/ Logistics Management/ Advanced Procurement Management
(or equivalent NQF 6 qualification) with one (1) year relevant experience in SCM/
Logistics/ Demand/ Acquisition/ Procurement Management. Knowledge of RT
contracts (transversal contracts). Knowledge of prescripts governing Supply Chain
Management (PFMA, PPPFA and its Regulations, Treasury Regulations as well
the Public Service Regulations). Computer Literacy. Ability to work under pressure,
independently and as part of the team. Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Problem solving and analysis skills. Report writing. Ability to interpret and
apply policies. Financial management, conflict management, change/diversity
management and supervision skills.
DUTIES : Ensure compliance of requisition in line with departmental policies. Provide
effective and efficient contract management. Prepare and provide sectional reports
and submit to the supervisor. Ensure effective management and commitment.
Assist with Bid-Administration. Provide support to departmental bid committees.
Perform other work-related functions as required by your supervisor or manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Langa / Mr T Mkhize Tel: (018) 388 1064/ 4060
POST 22/492 : STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: NWFIN/2026/22
Programme: Administration
Sub Programme: Financial Management
Sub Directorate: Financial Accounting and Bank Management
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma / Advanced Certificate in Finance/ Accounting
or equivalent NQF 6 qualification. NQF 7 will be an added advantage. A minimum
of one (1) year relevant experience in Accounting/ Finance. Knowledge of Public
Sector Reporting Framework for the preparation of financial statements, financial
controls, Public Sector Financial prescripts, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury regulations. Computer literacy – Word, Excel and PowerPoint
important. Knowledge of Government systems (BAS, Walker, PERSAL) will be an
added advantage. Sound analytical and problem-solving skills. Excellent
interpersonal and customer relation skills. Creative and innovative. Ability to work
independently and in a team. Sound Report writing. Ability to apply
technical/professional knowledge and skills in immediate work area and wider
environment. Ability to work under pressure and with precision. Ensure deadlines
are adhered to. Ability to plan effectively and efficiently. Ability to apply
technical/professional knowledge and skills in immediate work area and wider
environment. Ability to work under pressure and with precision. Ensure deadlines
are adhered to. Ability to plan effectively and efficiently.
DUTIES : To render Financial Accounting Services related to Debtors, Creditors, Revenue
and Expenditure. Responsible for the capturing of revenue. To assist the
supervisor with the timeous and accurate closure of month-end and year-end BAS
processes. To assist with the preparation of the monthly accounting reconciliations,
checks and balances. Perform/authorize daily financial accounting system
operational functions. To check and monitor S&T claims for validity, accuracy and
completeness. Check the daily bank statements. Ensure compliance with Public
Sector reporting framework, accounting policies, procedures and PFMA. Supervise
284
and assess performance of sub-ordinates. Assist in compilation of sections in the
Interim and Annual Financial Statements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R. Letsogo Tel: 018 388 3247
POST 22/493 : PAYROLL OFFICER REF NO: NWFIN/2026/23
Programme: Administration
Sub Programme: Financial Management
Directorate: Salary Administration
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a Grade 12 with two (2) years relevant experience in Salary
Management OR a National Diploma/Advance Certificate in HRM/ Finance/
Accounting (or equivalent NQF 6 qualification) with one (1) year relevant
experience in Salary Management. A Persal certificate in Introduction to Persal is
compulsory. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations. Computer literacy. Working knowledge of government systems (BAS,
Walker, Persal) will be an added advantage. Sound analytical and problem-solving
skills. Excellent interpersonal and customer relation skills. Ability to work
independently and in a team. Ability to apply technical/professional knowledge and
skills in immediate work area and wider environment. Ability to work under pressure
and with precision. Ensure deadlines are adhered to. Ability to plan effectively and
efficiently.
DUTIES : To provide salary payments and deductions services. Payment of travel and
subsistence claims and other salary related claims. Ensure that unauthorized
expenditure with respect to Persal is effectively prevented. Perform bi-annual and
annual tax reconciliation on staff remuneration and liaise with SARS on all PAYE
matters. Assist with payroll certification processes. Safe keeping, maintenance and
disposal of salary records and files.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Joseph Mokgadi Tel: 018 388 5691
POST 22/494 : STATE ACCOUNTANT (NGA) REF NO: NWFIN/2026/24 (2 POSTS)
Programme: Financial Governance
Sub-Programme: Accounting Service
Directorate: Transversal Accounting and Support
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277.per annum)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advanced Certificate in Finance/Accounting
or equivalent NQF level 6 qualification. A minimum of one (1) year relevant
experience in Public Finance. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Walker Financial Management System, Public
Service Act and Public Service Regulations. The successful candidate should have
ability to work independently and within a dynamic team. Ability to assist in the
facilitation of workshops, sound analytical and problem-solving skills, ability to
interpret and apply policies and other prescripts. Must be computer literate, have
good inter – personal relations, excellent communications (verbal and written).
Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Receive and capture manual revenue and expenditure cash books of Traditional
Authorities. Capture rectifying journals on Walker system. Reconcile deposits and
payments in the cashbooks to the bank statement. Ensure correct allocation of
grants/salaries to the cashbooks. File posted cash books and journals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Soofie Tel: (018) 388 3266
POST 22/495 : STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: NWFIN/2026/25 (2 POSTS)
Programme: Financial Governance
Sub-Programme: Accounting Services
Sub Directorate: Accounting Compliance
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277.per annum (Level 7)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum a National Diploma or Advance Certificate in Finance / Accounting
or equivalent NQF 06 qualification. A Degree Qualification or NQF 07 will be an
added advantage. A minimum of one (1) year relevant experience in a Public
Finance/ Administration environment. Sound knowledge on the application and
understanding of PERSAL, BAS and Walker systems, Standard Chart of Accounts
(SCOA), Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Skills
Development Act and Income Tax Act. Sound working knowledge of the PAYE
Reconciliation process and ability to solve complex tax matters. Sound analytical
and problem-solving skills. Client orientation and customer focus. Ability to work
independently and within a dynamic team. Ability to assist in the facilitation of
workshops, ability to interpret and apply policies and other prescripts. Must be
computer literate, have good inter – personal relations, excellent communications
(verbal and written). Honesty and integrity.
285
DUTIES : Distribution of Persal Salary report and payments schedules from the computer
room. Provide financial information on all operational aspects of (PMG) bank
accounts of departments and trading entities. Assess and report on compliance
with accounting related legislative requirements. Assist departments with Bi-
Annual, Year-End and revised tax reconciliation. Render effective filing and
records management services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Khambule Tel: (018) 388 4348
286
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a date,
time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 22/496 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (FAMILY MEDICINE) (MEDICAL AND
MEDICAL ANCILLARY)
West Coast Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Family
Physician. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as a Medical Specialist in Family Medicine.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign health
professional council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist, Family Physician. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognized foreign health professional council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist, Family Physician. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid driver’s license (Code B/EB). Willing to render Commuted Overtime
duties at the Hospital. Willingness to work at the PHC Clinics in the Sub-district.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work within and lead a multi-
disciplinary team to provide service delivery to clients in a Primary Health Care
setting and on Hospital level. Knowledge of Community Orientated Primary Care
approach and ability to engage all relevant stakeholders in the Ecosystem. Good
communication, interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict
resolution skills and the ability to work in a high stress environment. Basic computer
skills in MS Word, Excel, and Outlook.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Clinical Governance and clinical guidance to facility
managers at the Hospital and Clinics. Clinical service provision and clinical
managerial tasks with regards to medical and allied health staff. Clinical service
provision at Specialist level in Family Medicine, sub-specialities and Emergencies.
Training of students, community service staff, Medical Officers and Allied Health
staff and appropriate research in Family Medicine. Assist Manager: Medical
Services with HR and financial resource management duties.
ENQUIRIES : Dr ECT Ockhuis, tel. no. (027) 213-2038/6
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview.” This concession is only applicable on health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/497 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHIATRY)
(3-Year Contract)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
287
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Department of Psychiatry
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 2: A
Minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration
with the HPCSA (or recognized Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 3: A Minimum
of 10 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or recognized Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Inherent requirement of the job:
Valid Driver’s licence. Willingness to travel. Willingness to participate in the after-
hours duty roster. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Specialist knowledge in the
assessment and management of general adult psychiatry conditions including
emergency psychiatry and eating disorders. Knowledge of eating disorders and
obesity (bariatric) psychiatry. Advanced clinical knowledge and skills in adult
psychiatry. Administration of electroconvulsive therapy. Clinical governance and
service planning. Teaching and supervision of health professionals at multiple
levels. Evidence-based practice and research methodology. Strong
communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to lead, supervise, and work in
multi-disciplinary teams. Professional resilience and adaptability. Commitment to
Batho Pele principles and WCG values: Caring, Competence Accountability,
Integrity, Innovation, Responsiveness. Demonstrated expertise in the
management of eating disorders and bariatric psychiatry.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide high-quality specialist psychiatric clinical
services to adult patients across inpatient, outpatient, liaison, eating disorder, and
bariatric psychiatry services. Support safe, efficient, and ethical service delivery by
participating in clinical governance activities, service planning, and quality-
improvement initiatives within the department. Deliver structured teaching and
supervision to undergraduate students, registrars, medical officers, and other
health professionals to support training and clinical competence. Participate in
academic activities and contribute to research relevant to psychiatry, including
supervision, publication, and continuing professional development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr A Oosthuizen, tel.no. (021) 402-6552 or email:
Almero.Oosthuizen@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/498 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3: PSYCHIATRY (PSYCHIATRIC AND
MEDICAL SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration
with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
a foreign-qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of a foreign-qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to
participate in after-hours duties when required. Willingness to provide outreach
with-in the Hospital catchment area and Ecosystem framework. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Competencies in the clinical assessment and management of
288
child and adolescent mental disorders. Strong record of clinical expertise, clinical
governance, research, teaching and training at under and postgraduate levels.
Excellent managerial, interpersonal, leadership, administrative, communication,
analytical and problem-solving skills. Ability to supervise clinical training and
teaching. Appropriate experience in teaching, training and supervision of students,
Registrars and Medical Staff. Appropriate experience in delivering clinical services
to children and adolescents.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide specialist clinical services to inpatients and
outpatients, including outreach services within the hospital catchment area and
Ecosystem Framework. Management of relevant clinical governance and
administrative requirements. Leadership of a multi-disciplinary clinical team.
Academic teaching, training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Jacobs, tel. no. (021) 370-1314
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/499 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER GRADE A
Directorate: Infrastructure Programme Delivery
SALARY : R1 317 108 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured accordingly to
the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Higher Diploma, B Tech, Degree,
Honors Degree in a Built Environment field. Registration with a professional
council: Registered as a Professional Construction Project Manager (Pr CPM) with
South African Council for the Project and Construction Management Professions
(SACPCMP). Experience: Six years post qualification experience required.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to
travel within the Western Cape, stay overnight on occasion and occasionally,
nationally (if required). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Programme and project
management. Project and professional judgement. Legal and operational
compliance - relevant Built Environment and related legislation and prescripts.
Creating high performance culture. Strategic capability and leadership. Problem
solving and analysis decision making. Financial management. Customer focus and
responsiveness communication. Computer skills (Microsoft Office) People
management. Planning and organising Conflict management Change
management. Contract management–various types and forms of construction
contracts, with a focus on New Engineering Contract (NEC).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Infrastructure Programme and Project Planning in line
with Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS). Infrastructure
Programme and Project Implementation and Monitoring Infrastructure Project
Commissioning Infrastructure Programme and Project Evaluation Research/best
practice to keep up with new technologies, viability and feasibility of the building
asset management options and innovations for the Department including
interaction with relevant stakeholders and professional development
boards/councils. People Management. Financial Management. Mentoring of
Candidates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Graham, email: Gavin.Graham@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/500 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant
289
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Commuted
overtime contract is compulsory, as well as the ability to work after-hours.
Willingness to travel to drainage hospitals for outreach work. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience and skills in obstetrics and gynaecology
care to manage a large labour ward at regional hospital level. Ability to work in a
team and with all levels of staff. Must be able to do a Caesarean section safely and
without supervision. Candidates should be able to do a basic gestational
ultrasound scan. Computer literacy in MS Office mandatory.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide expert clinical management of all non-acute and
emergency O&G cases within the department, including labour ward and
gynaecology units. Lead the care of critically ill patients, including advanced
resuscitation and stabilisation. Supervise, mentor, and teach medical students,
interns, and midwifery staff. Ensure efficient administration of clinical services,
including medico-legal responsibilities. Provide guidance and leadership towards
the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the department. Participate in
the termination of pregnancy program in line with legislation and best practice.
Promote cost-effective clinical care by optimising the use of laboratory services,
blood products, medications, consumables, and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Prof GS Gebhardt, tel. no. (021) 938-4638
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates may
be subjected to a competency test. “Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees
to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for a change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/501 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Khayelitsha CHC (1 post),
Michael Mapongwana CDC (1 post)
Mfuleni CDC (1 post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as a
Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
290
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence.
Willingness to perform COT at Khayelitsha CHC (24hr Emergency Centre).
Willingness to do outreach services to clinics throughout the Khayelitsha/Eastern
Sub-structure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of all relevant South
African treatment guidelines (incl but not limited to PACK & Child PACK
guidelines/IMCI/STG and EDL, latest TB and HIV care guidelines). Ability and
willingness to do COT at Khayelitsha CHC with valid emergency courses (BLS,
ACLS, ATLS). Ability and willingness to do outreach services to clinics throughout
the Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure, guiding health care colleagues in managing
difficult PHC cases. Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook etc.) and good
communication, good interpersonal, organizational and teamwork skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide quality outpatient care to patients in
Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure Primary Health Care facilities. Provide
emergency care to patients at 24hr Emergency Centre. Provide an outreach and
support service to PHC facilities in the Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure. Provide
an efficient administration service regarding clinical and non-clinical matters.
Relevant administration as required for Medical Legal purposes. Ensure a cost-
effective service at clinical level with regards to laboratory services, blood,
medicine, consumables and equipment. Actively participate in skills transfer,
training, and academic opportunities relevant to the post. Active involvement in the
clinical governance of Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure facilities as required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr L Wagner, tel. no. (021) 360- 5200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/502 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the HPCSA
as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of who is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a medical practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant experience after registration as a
medical practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. -Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA
as a medical practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years relevant experience after registration as a medical practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform Community Service as required in
South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB).
Commuted overtime contract is compulsory, as well as willingness to work after-
hours. Willingness to travel throughout the district. Willingness to perform
termination of pregnancy. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Ability to work in integrated multi-disciplinary teams
across platforms. Computer literacy in MS Office mandatory. Diploma in either
Child Health, HIV, PEC, Psychiatry, Obstetrics and Anaesthesia. Excellent time
management.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Quality clinical, non-clinical and medico-legal patient
care as required by the various programmes of the Department of Health.
Supervise-, Support -, transfer of knowledge to-, training- and mentoring of the
clinical staff and auxiliary staff. Provide and efficient administration service
291
regarding all clinical and non-clinical matters and medico-legal work. Provide
guidance and leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives
of the division. Ensure a cost-efficient service at clinical level with regards to
laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Dr JB van Jaarsveld, tel. no. (044) 604 - 6102
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/503 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the HPCSA
as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as a
Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, who
are not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant experience after registration as a
Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees, who are not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience
as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, who are not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Willingness and ability
to work commuted overtime, including nights, weekends, and public holidays.
Willingness to work across all clinical domains within the hospital, including
emergency centre, wards, maternity, pediatrics, and surgical services. Willingness
and ability to travel for outreach and service support across the Helderberg
Hospital health ecosystem. Ability to manage a high clinical workload and make
independent decisions within scope of practice. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to function as a generalist clinician across adult medicine, pediatrics,
obstetrics, emergency care, and basic surgical conditions. Ability to assess, triage,
stabilise, and initiate management of acutely ill and undifferentiated patients.
Competence in managing chronic diseases and multimorbidity in a resource-
constrained environment. Ability to perform essential bedside procedures
appropriate to level of care. Ability to recognise clinical limits and escalate
appropriately in line with clinical governance pathways. Competence in rational
prescribing, medication reconciliation, and management of polypharmacy,
including palliative care. -Commitment to patient safety, continuity of care, and
person-centered clinical decision-making. Ability to communicate effectively in
complex or high-pressure situations and maintain accurate medico-legal
documentation. Ability to work collaboratively within multidisciplinary teams across
hospital and primary care interfaces. Resilience and ability to function under
pressure in a high-volume clinical environment Digital literacy (eCCR, SPV, ECM,
HECTIS, MS Office).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide clinical care across outpatient, inpatient, and
emergency settings. Manage acute and chronic conditions, including
undifferentiated presentations. Perform minor procedures appropriate to level of
care. Identify clinical deterioration, initiate stabilization, and ensure appropriate
referral or escalation. Ensure continuity of care across clinical interfaces. Provide
after-hours and weekend clinical cover across all departments. Participate in ward
rounds, admissions, inpatient management, and discharges. Maintain high
standards of clinical documentation and handover. Provide clinical outreach and
292
support to facilities within the Helderberg Hospital ecosystem based on service
needs. -Support integration between hospital, PHC, and community-based
services. Contribute to continuity of care across levels of service. Participate in
morbidity and mortality meetings, audits, and incident reviews. Contribute to Ideal
Hospital and OHSC compliance and SOP implementation. Support patient safety
and service improvement initiatives. Provide teaching and supervision to interns,
students, and junior medical officers. Support workplace-based assessments and
clinical learning.
ENQUIRIES : Dr W Viljoen, tel.no. (021) 850-4705
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/504 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (PALLIATIVE CARE)
(Contract Until 31 July 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIRMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA
as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Post
Graduate Diploma in Palliative Medicine. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of working in an interdisciplinary team. Knowledge and experience in
Palliative Medicine. Good communication skills (verbal and written). Computer
literacy (MS Office, Excel).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure effective networking outside the hospital to
ensure the continuation of care of patients. Engage and maintain working
relationships with relevant stakeholders to support palliative care development.
Attend dedicated palliative multidisciplinary meetings across the hospital.
Participate in palliative care staff development. Participate in team debriefing.
Ability to do in service palliative care training. Assist in monitoring and evaluating
the palliative care service. Render clinical patient and family care to patients
referred to Palliative Care. Advocate for appropriate palliative care across the
hospital. In conjunction with the interdisciplinary team ensure effective palliative
care of the referred Palliative Care patients in Groote Schuur Hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Naidoo, tel. no. (021) 404 2263
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
293
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
Please ensure that you attach an updated CV.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/505 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (SURGERY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime)
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA
as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a
Medical Practitioner after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to perform
shift work and commuted overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate
experience and skills in surgical care to manage a ward, theatre and outpatients at
a regional level hospital. Must be able to perform amputations, basic laparotomies
and minor surgical procedures safely and without significant surgical supervision.
The ability to perform basic diagnostic upper endoscopy will be considered an
advantage. ATLS/ BLS certification or equivalent is required. Experience in
managing critically ill patients is recommended. Previous experience as a medical
officer in Surgery is highly recommended.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Operative management of all surgical and trauma
emergencies, as well as elective surgical procedures at a regional level hospital.
Outpatient clinic consultations and management planning. Management of
critically ill patients including resuscitation of patients and management of
ventilatory and inotropic support in an Intensive Care Unit. Inpatient management
and interdepartmental liaison. Endoscopic GIT diagnostic and therapeutic
management. Supervision and teaching of students and interns. Provide a
proficient administrative service regarding all clinical and non-clinical matters and
medicolegal work. Provide guidance and leadership towards strategic goals and
objectives of the department. Ensure cost efficient service at clinical level with
regards to laboratory services, blood, medicines, consumables and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Prof H Bougard, tel. no. (021) 402-6444
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/506 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R882 816 per annum
Grade 2: R954 339 per annum
Grade 3: R1 041 402 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Khayelitsha CHC, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
294
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC as a
Pharmacist. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Pharmacist with
the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after
registration as Pharmacist with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect
of SA qualified employees. 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as
Pharmacist with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ relevant
experience after registration as Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA
qualified employees. 14 years’ relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist
with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required
in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to perform relief duties
at pharmacies in the sub-structure. Valid driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of National and Provincial Health Policies and
Pharmaceutical Acts and Laws. Ability to work accurately under pressure and
maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability and willingness to train staff.
Good communication and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy. Familiar with
Primary Health Care Environment, Antimicrobial Stewardship & Differentiated
models of Care.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Support with the efficient and cost-effective functioning
of pharmaceutical service in all Khayelitsha Sub District PHC sites including
adherence to statutory requirements and policies. Support to ensure provision of
safe and cost-effective pharmaceutical care to patients. Support and accept co -
responsibility for pharmaceutical supply management in Khayelitsha clinics by
ensuring safe and reliable procurement, storage, control, distribution and
discarding of pharmaceuticals. Support the pharmaceutical budget and
expenditure to ensure compliance with financial prescripts. Support with monitoring
of Human Resources and supervising of Pharmacists Assistants to ensure
optimum productivity and people development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sigcau, tel.no. (021) 360-5307
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates may
be required to undergo a competency assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply
for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/507 : PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R907 617 per annum
Grade 2: R1 055 292 per annum
Grade 3: R1 221 843 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Psychologist in
Clinical Psychology. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as Psychologist in Clinical Psychology. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as with the HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified
employees. 1 Year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum
of 8 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist
in respect of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 9 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required
in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 16 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified
employees. A minimum of 17 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
295
requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license (Code B/EB). Willingness to work at
all facilities in the Sub-Structure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent
clinical assessment and management procedures. Excellent clinical skills in terms
of consultation. Good professional attitude. Communication skills. Computer
literate.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Developing psychological and counselling services at
PHC level with particular emphasis on the provision of clinical services at
designated CHCs and CDCs. Interventions include evidence-based short-term and
longer-term psychotherapies, support and containment work, and telehealth
services, as well as liaising with relevant service providers and stakeholders in
making appropriate referrals for the management of patients. Developing and
facilitating referral pathways. Service development includes capacity building by
way of clinical supervision, mentorship and training of psychologists, interns,
students, and staff at district facilities. The championing of mental health within the
DOH and the development of intersectoral partnerships with various health
department role-players as well as NPOs. Performing administrative tasks related
to clinical work as well as data collection and line-management. Adhere to
Continuous Professional Development (CPD) requirements as stipulated by the
HPCSA.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Murie, tel. no. (021) 797-8451
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/508 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Albertinia Clinic, Hessequa Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year diploma in Clinical Nursing
Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care, accredited with the SANC
(R48). OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification
(R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with
the SANC in Primary Care Nursing. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A
Minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A
Minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience
after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence and willingness to travel. Willingness to work overtime and assist at other
clinics, mobiles, satellites within the Sub District, when there is a need. Willingness
to drive a mobile clinic vehicle. Competencies (knowledge/skills): NIMART training
or experience. Problem solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills. Basic
computer skills in (i.e. MS Word, Excel, Outlook). Knowledge of relevant legislation
and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Excellent communication
skills (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist with the management of clinical comprehensive
health PHC services. Plan and implement Health Promotion and Prevention
activities in facility and Community. Link to the community structures and NPO’s.
Collect data and submit reports. Provide PHC services to the surrounding
communities. Assist with the managing of Human Resources, Finance, SCM,
Strategy and Health support, Infrastructure and equipment management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Braaf, tel.no. (028) 713-8644
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be
subjected to a practical/ oral assessment. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
296
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply
for the first time for registration in the post basic qualification in: Curative Skills in
Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited with
the SANC (R48) or post graduate diploma in Primary Care Nursing accredited with
the SANC (R635).
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/509 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY AREA: THEATRE) (3
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical
and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre Nursing (212) OR A 4-year
bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497
or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-graduate diploma (R635) accredited with
the SANC in Peri-operative Nursing. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum
of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
public holidays, after-hours, night duty and weekend cover for nursing. Deputising
for the Operational Manager: Nursing. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and
ethical nursing practices and how this impact on service delivery. Ensure that
clinical nursing practice rendered by the nursing team and promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Effective interpersonal, leadership, organisational, decision making and conflict
resolution skills. Demonstrate a good understanding of People Management
(Human Resources) and financial policies and practices. Computer literacy (i.e.
MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Knowledge of FBU functions and
management (ability to work collaboratively within FBUs).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide comprehensive specialized nursing care
provided within a professional / legal framework. Participate with the multi-
disciplinary team to provide holistic health care. Provide good documentation, care,
planning and health education. Support and participate in clinical practice
development initiatives, educational activities, and research. Effective utilization of
human and financial resources. Provide support services to Supervisor and
Nursing division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Franken, tel. no. (021) 658-5187
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed into the general
stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary qualification within a
predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to
register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the
interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first
time for registration in the post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 22/510 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALITY: INTENSIVE CARE
UNIT)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that allows registration with
297
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: General. Or 4 year
Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497
or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with
the SANC in Critical Care Nursing (Adult). Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2. A
minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience
after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability and willingness to assist
with shifts including weekends, public holidays, night duty relief and overtime as
the need arises. Willingness to rotate between ICU departments. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic computer literacy. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policy related to the
nursing specialty. Strong leadership and interpersonal skills. Good organizational
skills and the ability to function under pressure. Display core values of the
Department of Health and Wellness (WCG) on the execution of duties while
practicing within the legislation, regulations and protocols applicable to the public
service.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification
of nursing care needs, the planning and implementation of nursing care plans and
the education of the nursing personnel as a Professional Nurse in the specific
specialty clinical area. Render and supervise specialized clinical nursing care and
support clinical staff with procedures within the specific clinical specialty unit. Utilize
human, material and physical resources and development of self and others.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase, tel. no. (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply
for the first time for registration in the post basic qualification or post-graduate
diploma in the relevant specialty. -Candidates who are not in possession of the
required qualification will be appointed into the general stream, and they will be
required to obtain the necessary qualification within the predetermined period of
time.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/511 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: THEATRE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in
Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating Theatre Nursing. Or 4 year
Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497
or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with
the SANC in Peri-operative Nursing. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A
minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience
after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability and willingness to assist
with shifts including weekends, public holidays, night duty relief and overtime as
the need arises. Willingness to rotate between departments. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic computer literacy. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policy related to the
nursing specialty. Strong leadership and interpersonal skills. Good organizational
skills and the ability to function under pressure. Display core values of the
298
Department of Health and Wellness (WCG) on the execution of duties while
practicing within the legislation, regulations and protocols applicable to the public
service.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification
of nursing care needs, the planning and implementation of nursing care plans and
the education of the nursing personnel as a Professional Nurse in the specific
specialty clinical area. Render and supervise specialized clinical nursing care and
support clinical staff with procedures within the specific clinical specialty unit. Utilize
human, material and physical resources and development of self and others.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase, tel. no. (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply
for the first time for registration in the post basic qualification or post-graduate
diploma in the relevant specialty. Candidates who are not in possession of the
required qualification will be appointed into the general stream, and they will be
required to obtain the necessary qualification within the predetermined period of
time.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/512 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: THEATRE)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum (Plus non pensionable rural allowance of 12% of
your annual basic salary)
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Minimum educational qualifications: Basic
R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683
plus R254) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at
least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Operating Theatre Nursing (212). OR A 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174)
or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Peri-operative
Nursing. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred
to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year
post-basic qualification or post- graduate diploma in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work overtime, weekends and Public
Holidays when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication
(written and verbal) skills and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of Legislation and
policies of the Department of Health relevant to clinical practise.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide comprehensive specialized nursing care
provided within a professional / legal framework. Participate with the multi-
disciplinary team to provide holistic health care, provide good documentation, care,
planning and health education. To support and participate in clinical practice
development initiatives, educational activities, and research. Ensure sterility &
illness prevention initiatives. Effective utilization of human and financial resources.
Provide support services to Supervisor and Nursing division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JCB Kiewiet. tel. no. (023) 414 - 8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that
proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted
on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to
candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post basic qualification
or post graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
299
POST 22/513 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (ECM PROJECT
MANAGER)
Directorate: Information Technology
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate relevant 3-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate Project Management Experience.
Appropriate Managing and supporting hospital information systems, specifically
ECM, Digital Patient Domain & MyContent or related HIS applications. Appropriate
experience in ICT support and maintenance. Appropriate experience of hospital
administrative and clinical processes. Appropriate experience working on
Electronic Health Record systems/modules. Appropriate experience in training,
user support, and system administration. Appropriate experience with clinical and
administrative processes in hospital or PHC settings. Appropriate experience with
master data management, quality control, and systems integration (e.g. Clinicom,
NHLS, JAC, PHCIS). Appropriate experience in Project Management and
supporting Hospital Information Systems (HIS), specifically ECM Digital Patient
Domain and MyContent and related applications, ensuring effective operation,
coordination, user support and system oversight across facilities. Appropriate
experience in system support and maintenance, including monitoring system
performance, resolving incidents, managing helpdesk calls, analysing root causes
of system issues and ensuring timely resolution to maintain operational continuity.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel to
WCDHW health institutions. Willingness to work overtime when required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Methodologies & Frameworks: Expertise in
frameworks like Agile, Scrum, or Waterfall. Planning & Scheduling: Mastery of
milestone mapping, resource allocation, and timeline creation. Risk & Issue
Management: The ability to anticipate, mitigate, and resolve project roadblocks.
Budgeting & Cost Control: Accurate estimation, forecasting, and tracking of
financial resources. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Strong problem-
solving abilities and abilities to escalate issues appropriately. Ability to provide user
training and support across multiple systems. Accurate data capturing and strong
attention to detail. Computer literacy, including MS Office and MS Teams.
Knowledge of ECM OpenText Systems. Knowledge of Project Management
Protocol and Methodologies. Understanding of business process re-engineering
and patient flow. Understanding of system maintenance, enhancement processes,
and quality control procedures. Proven ability to lead and work effectively within a
team environment. Appropriate Knowledge of Billing, Fees, and patient
administration workflows will be advantageous. Appropriate knowledge of ECM
and Mobile Project Planning, Execution and Implementation.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide operational oversight and support for ECM and
related systems, including incident management, system monitoring, release
communication and ensuring the effective functioning of hospital information
systems across supported facilities. Liaise and communicate with HIS
Management, Hospital Management, Information Officers and IT (CeI) (TAPS) and
Services Providers regarding system updates, operational issues, outages, risks
and system-related information, ensuring that relevant stakeholders are informed
and supported. Manage and implement system change control processes,
including the maintenance and updating of Master Files such as Inpatient,
Outpatient, Service Groups, Medical Records, Theatre, Waiting Lists and Global
Master Files through Governance Protocol in accordance with approved processes
and Head Office requirements. Coordinate and support system enhancements,
new requirements and system development initiatives, including participation in
Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions, sprint reviews and design
discussions, and assist with the rollout and implementation of new system modules
across facilities. Provide onsite and remote support to facilities, including
scheduled visits and virtual assistance, while assisting with system-related
hardware and software issues such as workstation configuration, printing, client
software and related technical challenges. Governance Management pertaining to
the ICT Policy in relation to user access administration and audit compliance,
including processing access requests, maintaining appropriate documentation and
ensuring compliance with system governance, audit and reporting requirements.
Identify and coordinate training requirements for system users and Information
Management staff, develop training schedules for Information Officers and Core
Trainers, and deliver formal or informal training on system functionality,
enhancements and processes. Manage staff and HR-related responsibilities,
including performance management, staff development, leave management and
task allocation. Provide data reporting and analytical support, including generating
patient and user reports through data mining applications such as Impromptu and
supporting information management and operational reporting requirements.
Provide after-hours system support when required to ensure continuity of
operations and support additional facilities where operationally necessary. Manage
300
and Develop Enterprise Content Management Systems and Mobile Applications
for Health Projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Maharaj, email: Jashmeer.Maharaj@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/514 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FOOD SERVICES MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma (NQF
Level 6) /Degree (NQF Level 7) in Food Service Management or Hospitality
management or equivalent qualification. Experience: Appropriate supervisory
experience. Appropriate experience in a large-scale Food Service environment.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends, and public
holidays. Willingness to be on standby. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of hygiene and safety procedures in an industrial Food Service Unit.
The ability to create spreadsheets, Word documents, and presentations in
Microsoft Office. Knowledge and skills with regard to managing the operation of an
industrial Food Service Unit. Problem-solving, sound numerical skills, decision-
making, and time management skills. Knowledge of disciplinary code and
procedure. Conversant with the Labour Relations Act, Food Services policies,
Food Safety Management System (ISO 22000:2018) and Occupational Health and
Safety Act. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Plan and develop the strategic management of the Food
Services Unit by providing well-balanced meals to all patients. To effectively and
efficiently maintain a high culinary service standard within the Kitchen. To mitigate
risks within the Kitchen environment wrt to quality, environment, and health and
safety. Manage human resources, inclusive of leave, disciplinary code of conduct,
time keeping, performance management, and filling of vacant posts in the
Department. Manage financial resources, including food costing, contract
management, and weekly statistics. Effective and efficient support to the Dietetic
Department and Milk Kitchen Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R De Jager, tel. no. (021) 400-3405
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/515 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT (BOOKKEEPING)
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Accounting. Experience: Appropriate experience in BAS and PERSAL.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work accurately with figures. Must be
able to work under pressure. Good communication skills (Written and Verbal).
External knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury
Regulations, Provincial Treasury Instructions and the departmental delegations
and procedures. Advanced computer literacy in Microsoft Office applications
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Strong leadership, managerial, organisational,
strategic, operational and contingency planning skills. Independent decision-
making, problem-solving and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of asset and liability
suspense accounts. Extensive knowledge of debt management and book closure
procedures. Knowledge of BAS (Basic Accounting System), LOGIS and PERSAL.
Extensive knowledge of departmental debt policies. Excellent project management
skills. Presentation skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Manage and administrate the Department’s Asset and
Liability suspense accounts. Analyse and manage the Departmental debt account,
the reporting thereof and compilation of write-off submissions. Consolidate and
provide inputs with regard to the Interim and Annual Financial Statements. Control
of monthly IYM departmental reporting. Overall Human Resource Management of
staff. Effective control to audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr DA Hendricks, tel. no. (021) 483-4398
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
301
POST 22/516 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES (NURSING
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Directorate: People Development
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum education qualifications: Senior certificate (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience in Nursing Information Management System. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid Driver’s Licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Extensive knowledge of procedures and processes related to Nursing Information
Management System. Appropriate knowledge of Treasury Regulations and
Contract Management and PFMA. Appropriate knowledge of drawing up various
documents, reports pertaining to nursing information management. Relevant
knowledge in People and Financial Management. Sound interpersonal and
communication skills (both written and verbal). Computer skills (MS Office, Excel
and Word).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Implement operational plans for Nursing Information
Management System (NIMS) to support nursing practice. Oversee the
development and execution of nursing policies with specific reference to Nursing
Information Management System. Assist with the management and coordination
Nursing Information Management System (NIMS) Provide support to ASD NIMS.
Identify, coordinate and monitor resources (People & Financial) in accordance with
relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Titus, tel. no. (084) 825-3812
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/517 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R338 208 per annum
Grade 2: R413 004 per annum
Grade 3: R496 668 per annum
Grade 4: R608 859 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification as a Social Worker
that allows for registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professionals (SACSSP). Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Worker. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate experience in social work after registration as a Social Worker
with the South African Council for Social Service Professions. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate experience in social work after registration as a Social
Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions. Grade 4: A
minimum of 30 years appropriate experience in social work after registration as a
Social Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Strong analytical and leadership, problem solving, decision
making and conflict resolution skills. Computer literacy (MS Office package: Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook email). Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation
and policy related to social work service in the public sector. Good report writing,
interpersonal, leadership and planning skills. Ability to work independently and
within an interdisciplinary team to achieve functional outcomes for clients.
Knowledge and understanding of illness and disease, human behaviour, and social
systems within a health environment setting. Appropriate experience in a clinical
setting.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provision of comprehensive, client centred clinical
social work services to adults and children in a district hospital. Ensure safe
discharge plans, support and protection of vulnerable individuals and families.
Conduct psychosocial assessments aimed at identifying conditions within
individuals that justify relevant interventions. Implementation of applicable social
work interventions. Effective engagement and networking with the multidisciplinary
team as well as all relevant external stakeholders. Keep up to date with new
developments in social work. Utilize and manage resources. Support social
workers, volunteers and students. Assist with the achievement of department and
organisational goals. Perform all administrative functions required of the job.
Deliver an accountable social work service through the appropriate implementation
of social work processes. Ensure continued professional development by keeping
updated with developments in the field.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Herwell, tel. no. (021) 402-6621
302
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/518 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R338 208 per annum
Grade 2: R413 004 per annum
Grade 3: R496 668 per annum
Grade 4: R608 859 per annum
CENTRE : Otto du Plessis, Cape Agulhas Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification as a Social Worker
that allows for registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professionals (SACSSP). Registration with a professional council: Registration
with South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Worker. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ experience
in social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years’ experience in social work after registration as Social Worker
with the SACSSP. Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years’ experience in social work after
registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP. Inherent requirement of the job:
Valid code 8/EB driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy (MS Word and Excel). Knowledge and understanding of the nature of
human behaviour and the social service profession. Competence in Child and
Youth Care services within the Child Care Act. Have full knowledge of the
Termination of Pregnancy Act 92 of 1992. Skilled in trauma debriefing/supportive
counselling.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Establish social work services and network for the
Institution and maintain communication with stakeholders. Ensure that social work
service with regard to the care, support and protection of individuals, groups,
families through relevant programmes is rendered. Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work field. Undertake social work research and
development and contribute to the development of policies. Render a holistic social
work service to individual groups and community using all methods of social work
practices. Monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of recommended interventions,
reports on progress and identify. Further amended interventions to address
identified conditions. Liaise / attend meetings with other departments and non-
governmental institutions to take 107 cognizance of the latest developments in the
relevant fields. Produce and maintain qualitative and quantitative records of social
work interventions processes and Outcomes. Implement social welfare programme
in accordance with the need of the community and Government priorities.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Bothma, tel. no. (028) 514-8400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the
day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/519 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSET
MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance
Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in
line with the duties (key result areas/outputs) the post. Appropriate administrative
experience in a clinical or healthcare setting. Working knowledge and experience
of Asset Management and Supply Chain Management. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Strong analytical and strategic thinking abilities. Computer skills
in MS Office (i.e. Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Good interpersonal and
organisational skills. Ability to work in a team context and motivate team members.
Knowledge of PFMA, Finance instructions, Provincial and National Treasury
regulations, Supply Chain Instructions as well as Accounting Officer System.
303
Attention to detail and adherence to deadlines. Strong organizational and
communication skills. Ability to manage multiple priorities and work independently.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook) and familiarity with Syspro or
LOGIS.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Asset Register Maintenance. Asset Verification.
Disposal Management & Loss Control Process. Additions of assets Management.
Contract Performance Management. Support to supervisor and management.
People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Groenewald, tel. no. (021) 938-4911
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/520 : FOOD SERVICES MANAGER
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A three-year degree/Diploma in Food Service
Management, Hospitality Services, Food and Beverage management. Experience:
Appropriate experience in the Food Services environment. Appropriate
management experience. Inherent requirement of the job: As the Food Services
Component renders a 7-day week function successful candidate will be required
to work shifts and weekends and public holidays. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy, problem solving, decision making, time
management, presentation and managerial skills. Sound numerical skills. Excellent
written and verbal communication skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Manage the Food Service Unit: 24 hour per day and 7
days per week on rotation basis. Manage the preparation, distribution and serving
of meals including special diets. Manage meal plan and meal production. Manage
personnel, equipment and logistics. Manage /Administer human physical and
financial resources. Responsible for hygiene and floor and safety standards.
Effective utilisation of the Food Service team. Apply departmental regulations and
protocol.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Keyser tel. no. (021) 938-4135
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/521 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: INPATIENTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital, Witzenberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Or A 4 year bachelor’s
degree in nursing (R174) that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. OR A 3-year Diploma in Nursing (R171)
that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
General Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at
SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of
the job: Working shifts, including day and night duty, weekends, and public
holidays. Willingness to perform overtime and standby duties, and to rotate/assist
in all departments (excluding maternity ward) as required, in line with operational
needs. Willingness to be trained in theatre (If not already skilled) and assist with
theatre coverage when required. Ability to work under pressure. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good leadership, planning, and interpersonal skills. Ability to
work in a multidisciplinary team. Enhance patient care through the implementation
of SOP’s, policies, and guidelines. Knowledge of the legal framework and
regulations regarding nursing practice.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provision of quality basic nursing patient centered care
in a hospital setting. Provision of optimal, holistic clinical and elementary nursing
care with set standards and within a professional/legal framework. Effective
utilisation of human and financial resources, Information management and support
304
services. Improving quality of health services. Maintain professional growth/ethical
standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GH Vermeulen, tel. no. (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 22/522 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Ward 13 And 14, Ward 5 And 6 And Psychogeriatric Ward)
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in
General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years recognisable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General
Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night
duty, weekends and public holidays to meet the operational requirements.
Prepared to work in all departments/wards according to the operational needs of
the hospital. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and understanding of
nursing care processes, procedures, statuses, and other relevant legal and ethical
practices. Computer literacy: MS Office, MS Outlook. Good Communication Skills
and Report Writing. Appropriate experience in comprehensive nursing treatment
and care to patients in a Mental Health Unit.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set
standards and within a professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of
resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
Provision of Support to Nursing Services. Participation in training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JE Isaacs, tel.no. (021) 503-5000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals
who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for a change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 22/523 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ULTRASOUND) (5/8TH POST)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R319 317 per annum
Grade 2: R373 914 per annum
Grade 3: R439 866 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Ultrasound/Radiography. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Ultrasound
Radiography. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA in
Ultrasound Radiography in respect of RSA-qualified employees. One-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound)
in respect of RSA-qualified employees. Minimum of 11 years relevant experience
305
after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign
qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-
qualified employees. Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified
employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in
South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence and
willingness to travel within the Sub District. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy in word processing, data management and analysis. Ability to
use or learn to use systems eg Clinicom, PHCIS. Ability to work independently and
in a team with good interpersonal skills. Thorough knowledge of ante-natal,
Doppler, paediatric, gynaecological and abdominal ultrasound studies.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide a comprehensive diagnostic ultrasound service
at an advanced level with the main focus on Obstetrics and Gynaecology (O&G)
imaging in Stellenbosch Hospital. But including abdominal and other studies.
Outreach sonography services to clinics in the ecosystem and district as
requested. General care of patients as part of a Multi-Disciplinary team. Effective
administration within the ultrasound unit regarding patient service, appropriate
referral as well as equipment management. Maintain case records and statistics.
Supervise, mentor and assess colleagues eg midwives, doctors, radiographers.
Actively take part in CPD- program, as trainer and learner.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Boraine, tel. no. (021) 808-5801
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates, who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment
of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals
whom apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/524 : SENIOR SECURITY OFFICER
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification.
Registration with a Professional Council: Candidates must be registered as a
Security Officer Grade B or higher with the Security Board in terms of the Security
Industry Regulatory Authority Act (PSIRA). Experience: Appropriate security
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Willing to rotate, in different sections
of security department and change shifts when required. Willingness to work shifts
and be available on a 24-hour basis. A valid Driver's License. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of security related prescripts, regulations,
procedures and the Occupational Health & Safety Act. Good interpersonal
communication skills and ability to work in a team as well as independently. Be
responsible, diligent and ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Contract Management of private security and conduct
crowd control. Monitor the patrol of buildings, parking areas and perimeter fencing
and control keys and all security documents. Investigate crimes and incidents,
writing reports and statements. Supervise inhouse and outsource security officers
and practice disciplinary processes to the subordinates. Monitor the CCTV control
room’s effectiveness and monitor the effectiveness of access and egress control.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ndzuzo, tel. no. (021) 404-3111
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/525 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, (Office Based: Stikland Compliance Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or with
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s) of
the post. Experience: Appropriate experience and knowledge in Finance and
Supply Chain Management. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB
(manual) drivers’ licence. Willing to travel and spend long periods away from the
home while placed at Health Institutions in the Western Cape. Competencies
306
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of computerised Management Financial systems.
Knowledge of Supply Chain Management. Knowledge of demand planning,
warehouse management, asset management and acquisition management.
Knowledge of accounting, payments and clearing of Ledger Accounts.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Processing of orders, LOGIS and BAS payments.
Perform warehouse functions. Procuring and accounting of assets. Effect
transactions on LOGIS/Syspro system.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Vermeulen, email: Eleanor.Vermeulen@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/526 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience of Patient Admissions and Wards, including the Clinicom
System. Inherent requirement of the job: Prepared to work 12-hour shifts (which
include night duty, weekends, public holidays, and work overtime on short notice).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and experience of the Clinicom
system. Good interpersonal and communication skills. Computer literacy. Ability to
communicate in at least two of the three official languages of the Western Cape.
Good numerical skills. Ability to accept accountability, responsibility, work
independently.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assess patients in accordance with Hospital
Memorandum 18 and UPFS manual. Assess Debtor of patients and capture data
of patient information on Clinicom System. Report all MVA’s and WCA’s to Batsumi
Hotline. Responsible for revenue control which includes receipt of money, issue of
accounts and safekeeping of patient’s valuables. Clinicom functions – admit,
discharge transfer patience etc. Provide an effective administrative service to the
Operational Manager, nurses, and doctors in the wards. Ordering and stock taking
as delegated, control of stock and assist OPM with the requisition of store stock/
buy outs. Accurately and timeously file all patient folders and other clinical notes
and drawing of folders and any ad-hoc admin duties. Maintain and repair patient
files and prepare case notes for archiving. Responsible for handling telephonic and
personal enquiries with regard to patients. Relieve in other departments as
operationally required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Davids, tel. no. (021) 810-6678
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/527 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Overberg District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s) of
the post. Experience: Appropriate patient administrative experience in a
health/patient environment. Appropriate Clinicom/PHCIS experience. Inherent
requirement of the job: Required to work 12-hour shifts (including night duty,
weekends and public holidays). Willing to work overtime on short notice.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Computer literacy in
MS Office. Good interpersonal and communication skills, ability to work
independently, and as part of a team, ability to maintain confidentiality and
problem-solving and conflict management with good organizational skills.
Knowledge of applicable policies - Hospital Fees memorandum Chapter 18, the
Uniform. Patient Fee Schedule (UPFS), Finance Instructions & Medical Records
policies. Knowledge of Clinicom.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Admission of patients including correct patient
assessment and accurate data/information capturing. Ensure correct management
of patient folders at reception area and schedule appointments (new, follow-up and
operations) on the system. Recordkeeping, compile new, retrieve, file, trace lost
and manage duplicates and old folders as well as maintain a record system and
archive. Accurate collection, safekeeping and deposit of state money. Deal with
written and or telephonic queries or enquiries with regards to patient admission
matters. Perform relief duties as well as support to supervisor as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Bucchianeri, tel.no. (028) 212-1070
307
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates may
be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/528 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (2 POSTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Overberg District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competences that focus on the key performance areas
of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain Management
environment. Appropriate experience in LOGIS. Inherent requirement of the job:
Valid EB/B/C/C1 driver’s licence. Ability to travel and rotate between facilities.
Expected to travel and provide support at facilities within the Overberg District.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the LOGIS System, SCM
functions and functional experience in obtaining quotations on an electronic
purchasing system (EPS). Computer literacy (MS Excel and Word). Good
communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Perform tasks related to procurement administration,
such as inviting quotes on EPS, placing of orders, preparing quotes for Quotation
Committee and follow-up with suppliers. Inventory and Asset Related. Asset
Management to be performed in the Overberg District which includes proper
management of assets pertaining to annual asset count, updating asset register,
disposals, capturing relevant documentation on LOGIS and keeping updated filling
of all relevant documentation. Support and Compliance Monitoring within the
Overberg District. Receive services and preparing batches for payment at the
Overberg District. Ensure compliance and reporting with all relevant laws and
prescripts related to the Supply Chain. Handle all telephone and written queries
from relevant suppliers and end users and provide regular update reports for the
Overberg District Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Honeyball, tel.no. (028) 214-5855
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/529 : TELKOM OPERATOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std. 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in the operating of
a high-volume switchboard in a messaging and Public Address system (PA).
Inherent requirement of the job: Physically able to hear and speak clearly. Must be
able to work shifts, night shifts, weekends and Public holidays. Work overtime
when required by operational needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate knowledge and ability to operate a high- volume Switchboard
equipment, a messaging and Public Address system effectively and efficiently.
Excellent listening skills and telephone etiquette. Computer literacy in Microsoft
Packages (Word, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Manage switchboard and Page staff over the intercom,
efficient communication handling (both internally and externally) of incoming and
outgoing calls and answer telephonic queries and deliver messages. Handling of
all telecommunication equipment and related tasks and ensuring that switchboard
and telephone equipment is in working order and report all faults to supervisor/
relevant persons. Maintain internal telephone directory. Provide feedback on the
operational running of the component and support supervisor by adhering to the
Code of Conduct for the Public Service. Monitor telephone accounts and keep
record off all cellular, national and international calls made and distribute monthly
to departments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Pedro, tel.no. (021) 377-4327
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/530 : SECURITY OFFICER (3 POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
308
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Registration with a Professional Council: Candidates
must be registered as a Security Officer Grade C or higher with the Security Board
in terms of the Security Industry Regulatory Authority Act PSIRA. Experience:
Appropriate experience as a Security Officer. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, change shifts when required and be available on a 24-
hour basis. Must be physically fit. A valid driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of security related prescripts, regulations and
procedures. Basic knowledge of the Occupational Health & Safety Act. Ability to
work in a team as well as independently and change to any shift when required.
Be responsible and diligent and ability to work under pressure. Good
Communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure access/egress control, patrolling buildings,
parking areas and perimeter fencing. Investigation of crimes, incidents, security
breaches and writing of statements and reports. Controlling of all hospital keys.
Supervise outsource security officers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ndzuzo, tel. no. (021) 404-3111
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/531 : GENERAL WORKER (STORES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience: Appropriate
experience in a warehouse environment, in receiving and distribution of stock
(stores). Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Driver’s license (Code B/EB).
Physical ability to lift heavy boxes. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good written
and verbal communication skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): General worker stores duties for Victoria Hospital (Hub
Hospital) and Southern Clinics in terms of, Load and offload stock on the vans.
Transport goods to and from different sections with the health facilities. Pack stock
in boxes according to standards. Receipt of stock from bulk store prepare stock for
courier distribution. Prepare stock for collection by demanders. Maintain hygiene
in the area. Rotate stock on shelves (FIFO). Move hospital equipment as required.
Assist with filling. Assist with stock take processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Sagela, tel. no. (021)7991241 or email:
zukiswa.sagela@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/532 : CLEANER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience: Appropriate
cleaning experience in a health facility environment. Inherent requirement of the
job: Prepared to work shifts, lift and handle heavy duty equipment and willingness
to rotate within the institution according to operational requirement. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound interpersonal and organising skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): General cleaning which include dusting, sweeping
vacuuming, polishing, cleaning of windows and toilets scrubbing and mopping and
removal of general refuse and medical waste. Execute cleaning tasks in order to
ensure a clean, hygienic and safe environment. Safekeeping of equipment and
supplies. Prevent medico-legal incidents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J van der Riel, tel.no. (021) 799-1270.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/533 : GROUNDSMAN
West Coast Health District
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Sonstraal Hospital, West Coast TB Centre
309
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience: Appropriate
experience in gardening. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to be physically
strong. Valid Code (B/EB) drivers’ licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Good problem solving skills. Basic
knowledge of garden tool maintenance.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effective maintenance of hospital grounds TB Complex.
To render general and groundsman services. Perform all activities related to
gardening and grounds, pruning of trees, cleaning of gutters etc. Effective removal
of domestic and medical waste. Effective support to Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr HL Siegelaar, tel. no. (021) 837-8097
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/534 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Garden Route Health District
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Garden Route District Office, (Stationed at Mossel Bay Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in transportation of personnel and goods in health
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid code (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Valid Public Driving Permit (PDP). Willingness to work overtime and to
perform standby duties when needed. Willingness to relief staff within the Support
Service component when needed. Ability to handle heavy objects. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good Communication skills (verbal and written). Appropriate
knowledge of routine, maintenance, Inspections for defects on vehicles and safe
driving skills. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility and to work
independently and unsupervised.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Daily transporting of official passengers, post,
packages, medication, goods and equipment as well as completion of logbooks.
Deliver and collect blood products and carry medical and other documentation
(patient files, reports, etc) to wards/treatment and other admin areas. Conduct
routine maintenance and cleaning of Government vehicles and conduct routine
inspection of vehicles and report defects. Perform routine administrative duties
when required and respond to emergencies when necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BR Meiring, tel. no. (044) 813-3001
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment/written test.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
POST 22/535 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : West Coast TB Centre (Sonstraal Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience: Appropriate
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s license.
Valid PDP. Sober habits. Responsible for vehicles and maintenance. Prepared to
work irregular hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Knowledge of transport regulations. Work in a team
environment
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Schedule transport and plan transport vehicles. Loading
and transporting of goods and staff complement. Timely reporting of minor and
major defects. Responsible for the prescribed records and logs regarding the
vehicles and goods handled. Assist the Transport Officer to maintain the transport
fleet in a clean and roadworthy condition. Prepare reports for the supervisor if and
when needed. Compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
ENQUIRIES : Mr HL Siegelaar, tel. no. (021) 837-8097
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 10 July 2026, 17:00PM
310