PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 13 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 17 APRIL 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS
EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICITY & ENERGY: Kindly note that the following post is
advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 12 dated 10 April 2026, Personal Assistant:
Internal Audit Ref No: DEE2026/003; the post has been withdrawn
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA: DEPARTMENT OF CO-
OPERATIVE GOVERNANCE, HUMAN SETTLEMENT AND TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS.
Kindly note that the following post was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 11
dated 27 March 2026, The Post type has been amended as follows (1) Candidate
Electrical Engineer (48 months Fixed Term Contract), with Ref No: COGHSTA/2026/01.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 03 - 08
CORRECTIONAL SERVICES B 09 - 28
DEFENCE C 29 - 35
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR D 36 - 41
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT E 42 - 48
HOME AFFAIRS F 49 - 72
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT G 73 - 77
MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES H 78 - 88
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE I 89 - 91
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE J 92 - 107
TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION K 108 - 113
TRANSPORT L 114 - 119
TREASURY M 120 - 125
TOURISM N 126 - 128
WATER AND SANITATION O 129 - 134
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE P 135 - 158
GAUTENG Q 159 - 164
KWAZULU NATAL R 165 - 182
MPUMALANGA S 183 - 190
NORTHERN CAPE T 191 - 195
WESTERN CAPE U 196 - 248
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview, the selection
committee will recommend candidates for a generic management competency
assessment, as per the Department of public Service and Administration
(DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’ managerial
competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false or
fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications.
Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/01 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSPORT, FLEET AND TRAVEL MANAGEMENT
REF NO: 3/3/1/16/2026
Directorate: Demand and Acquisition Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful applicants must be in possession of a Degree/ National Diploma in
Transport Management/ Public Administration/ Business Administration/
Purchasing Management/ Supply Chain Management/ Logistics Management.
3
Minimum of 3 year’s experience in Transport, Fleet and Travel Management
environment on salary level 9. Job related knowledge: Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations. Basic Accounting
Systems (BAS). Treasury regulations. Government Transport Policies. Job-
related skills: Computer Literacy. Presentation Skills. Communication Skills
(Verbal and Written). Planning and organizing Skills. Financial Skills. Analytical
Skills. Management Skills. Interpersonal Skills. Valid driver's license. Ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Manage travel operations: Manage the travel system. Ensure that processes
are in place. Attend to travel requests and bookings. Establish and maintain
good relationships with suppliers. Approve trip authorizations received from
clients. Manage after hours and emergency travel services. Manage fleet and
subsidized vehicles: Manage the fleet and subsidized vehicles. Manage the
maintenance of the fleet register and records. Coordinate the withdrawal of
services with financial services providers. Oversee inspection on vehicles,
accidents, thefts and disposal of vehicles. Manage the license disk and number
plates of departmental vehicles. Manage the utilisation of departmental,
subsidized and hired vehicles. Manage traffic fines of the DOA. Approve trip
authorizations received from clients. Manage special events and conferences:
Ensure the facilitation of support during departmental events and conferences.
Verify delegates during accreditation process. Manage the transportation of
delegates. Manage the EMS (after hours) services. Manage payments for
Travel and Transport Companies, Bank, etc: Manage the receipt of invoices,
verification and processing of invoices. Ensure valid invoices are paid within
30 days with receipt of invoices. Manage the transactions for journal
processing. Monitor the documents sent to internal control and payables.
Manage the reconciliation of payments. Provide remittance advice,
disbursements and list of invoices paid to the travel agents and blank, etc.
Liaise with the travel management company and the bank regarding the travel
account. Financial reporting: Manage the monthly reporting of the 30 days
report. Prepare, submit and report on accruals and payables. Review the
disclosure notes relating to transport and travel before submitting to
Management. Attend to request for information and audit findings raised by
Auditor General.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Roewyn Danster Tel No: (012) 312 8360
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DDTFTMrecruit16@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: Africans and Persons with disability.
POST 13/02 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSPORT, FLEET AND TRAVEL
MANAGEMENT REF NO: 3/3/1/17/2026
Directorate: Demand and Acquisition Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a National Diploma in Transport
Management/ Public Administration/ Purchasing Management/ Supply Chain
Management/ Logistics Management. Minimum of 3 years’ experience in
transport, fleet and travel management environment at least on a Senior Officer
Level (SL8). Job related knowledge: Public Finance Management Act. Public
Service Regulations. Basic Accounting System (BAS). Government transport
policies. Job-related skills: Computer skills. Report writing skills.
Communication skills. Interpersonal skills. Financial skills. Analytical skills.
Problem solving skills. Ability to work under pressure and in a team. A Valid
divers’ license.
DUTIES : Manage travel operations: Ensure that processes and systems are in place.
Monitor performance of the appointed suppliers. Establish and maintain good
relationship with suppliers. Attend to travel request from clients. Liaise with
travel agent. Authorise payments manually. Manage GG/departmental and
subsidized vehicles: Maintain an updated asset register and vehicle files.
Coordinate the withdrawal of services with financial service providers. Monitor
inspections conducted on vehicles. Authorise trip request by clients. Liaise with
G-Fleet for license disk and distribute to Provincial Offices. Manage special
events and conferences: Facilitate logistical support of departmental special
events and conferences. Sourcing venue and accommodation facilities.
Manage travel and transport of the delegates. Provide assistance in the
4
management of EMS services. Check delegates during accreditation process.
Authorise payments for Travel Management company and credit card, etc:
Keep record of invoices received by the department. Monitor the account by
updating distribution list. Ensure valid invoices are paid within 30 days.
Reconciliation of accounts. Provide support and report to management and
client offices: Provide and submit 30 days payment report to financial
accounting and reporting. Verify and submit Accruals and payables. Compile
age analysis and travel agent report to management. Provide advice and
guidance to staff. Provide remittances and disbursement reports to the
Suppliers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Amanda Le Roux Tel No: (012) 312 8438
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ADTFTMrecruit17@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Males, Coloured Males and Persons with disability.
POST 13/03 : AGRARIAN REFORM SPECIALIST REF NO: 3/3/1/21/2026
Directorate: Small-Holder Farmers Support
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and Degree in
Agriculture (NQF Level 7). Minimum of 2 years relevant experience in
agriculture economics / food security / developmental research. Job related
knowledge: Knowledge of food security policies, strategies and programmes.
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Project management. Job related
skills: Facilitation skills. Project Management. Planning. Initiative. Interpersonal
skills. Problem-solving abilities. Interpretation of findings. Analytical skills.
Computer literacy. Report writing skills. A valid driver's licence. Extended
working hours.
DUTIES : Facilitate the design of programmes for food security and smallholder
development. Coordinate the identification and design of programmes for food
security and smallholder development across the country and the value chain.
Conduct needs analysis for food security programmes and smallholder
producers across the country. Coordinate the implementation of food security
and smallholder development programmes. Interact with provinces, districts,
and local municipalities towards implementation of food security and
smallholder development programmes. Provide advisory services on food
security programmes and smallholder development programmes. Facilitate the
implementation of food security policies and frameworks for smallholder
producers. Monitor and evaluate food security programmes in the provinces.
Monitor the progress of smallholder producers funded by the departmental and
other programmes. Ensure the alignment of departmental plans and
programmes / projects in the provinces. Identify risk and challenges in the
implementation of food security and smallholder development producers’
support. Provide inputs in the development of guidelines for food security and
smallholder development programmes. Facilitate and coordinate analytical,
synthesized reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Ramolotja Tel No: (012) 319 8219
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ARSrecruit21@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Males, White Females and Persons with disability.
POST 13/04 : FORENSIC INVESTIGATOR REF NO: 3/3/1/19/2026
Sub-Division: Forensic Investigation
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a National
Diploma in Forensic Investigations / Law / Auditing. Minimum of two (2) years
of experience in Forensic Investigations. Job related knowledge: The
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) Professional Standards.
Forensic Investigations methodologies and procedures. Job related skills:
Written and verbal communication skills. Interviewing skills. Analytical skills.
Problem-solving skills. Conflict management skills. Interpersonal skills.
Computer skills.
5
DUTIES : Perform the Planning of the preliminary reviews of the annual case
management register projects according to the deliverables and timelines
defined on the approved preliminary review projects plans. Perform the
compilation of the electronic software of the Planning Phase Deliverables of
the Forensic Investigations Directorate’s preliminary review projects allocated
to this position, in line with the Chief Directorate’s quality standards,
methodologies, policies and procedures on a continuous basis; and report
progress to the Deputy Director: Forensic Investigations on a weekly basis.
Perform the Execution of the preliminary reviews of the annual case
management register projects according to the deliverables and timelines
defined on the approved preliminary review projects plans. Perform the
compilation of the electronic software of the Investigation Phase Deliverables
of the Forensic Investigations Directorate’s preliminary review projects
allocated to this position, in line with the Chief Directorate’s quality standards,
methodologies, policies and procedures on a continuous basis; and report
progress to the Deputy Director: Forensic Investigations on weekly basis.
Perform the Reporting of the preliminary reviews of the annual case
management register projects according to the deliverables and timelines
defined on the approved preliminary review projects plans. Perform the
compilation of the electronic software of the Reporting Phase Deliverables of
the Forensic Investigations Directorate’s preliminary review projects allocated
to this position, in line with the Chief Directorate’s quality standards,
methodologies, policies and procedures on a continuous basis; and report
progress to the Deputy Director: Forensic Investigations on a weekly basis.
Perform the Closure of the preliminary review of the annual case management
register projects according to the deliverables and timelines defined on the
approved preliminary review projects plans. Perform the compilation of the
electronic audit software of the Closure Phase Deliverables of the Forensic
Investigations Directorate’s preliminary review projects allocated to this
position, in line with the Chief Directorate’s quality standards, methodologies,
policies and procedures on a continuous basis and report progress to the
Deputy Director: Forensic Investigations on a weekly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Govender Tel No: (012) 309 8735
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
FIrecruit19@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Persons with disability.
POST 13/05 : AUDITOR: FINANCIAL AUDIT REF NO: 3/3/1/20/2026
Sub-Division: Financial Audit
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a National
Diploma in Accounting / Auditing. Minimum of one (1) year credible and
applicable experience (financial management, financial accounting, auditing).
Membership of the Institute of Internal Auditors is recommended. Job related
knowledge: The Standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors. Risk based
financial audit methodologies and procedures. Job related skills: Written and
verbal communication skills. Interviewing skills. Analytical and problem-solving
ability. Interpersonal skills. Computer skills. Business process analysis skills.
Risk and control assessment skills.
DUTIES : Plan the financial audit projects allocated to the employee. Organise opening
meetings with clients. Attend opening meetings and compile minutes thereof.
Prepare pre-audit survey (gathering background information e.g. acts, policies
and procedures, legislations, previous audit reports and any other information
related to the audit). Prepare a detailed system description which documents
the entire process to be audited. Attend and participate in risk workshop with
the audit client to identify and rate the audit risks per sub-process. Deliberate
on the controls pertaining to each risk identified and produce a risk report.
Conduct analytical reviews to identify patterns, trends etc in order to guide your
sampling plan. Prepare audit programme to test the adequacy and
effectiveness of the controls identified. Update teammate project file (ensure
teammate is updated with all planning documents). Execute the defined scope
of the financial audit projects allocated to the employee. Select a sample from
the population. Prepare working papers. Execute the audit procedures
according to the approved audit programme. Prepare the following documents
6
whenever necessary: Document control sheet. Incomplete or missing
documents. Factual correctness sheets. Collect audit evidence for each finding
raised. Prepare finding sheets with relevant recommendations. Discussion of
findings raised with relevant officials. Update teammate project file (ensure
teammate is updated with all fieldwork documents including finding sheets).
Report on the results of execution of the financial audit projects allocated to the
employee. Participate in the compilation of the stream reports. Participate in
the deliberation of the final report with audit manager and the audit client.
Closure of the audit project. Organise closing meetings with clients. Prepare
and discuss Audit Project Performance Evaluation. Complete the finding
register. Update teammate project file (align findings raised and working papers
to the final stream and Audit Committee reports).
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Zwane Tel No: (012) 309 8753
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
AFArecruit20@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Persons with disability.
POST 13/06 : BURSARY OFFICER REF NO. 3/3/1/21/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Sector Education and Training
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful applicants must be in possession of a minimum of 3-year (NQF6)
Diploma or B-Degree in Administration / Public Administration /Public
Management /Office Management/ Management Assistant. Minimum of 2
years of experience in bursary administration, information management,
database management and working with students in institutions of higher
learning. Valid Driver’s Licence. Job related knowledge: Project management,
Monitoring and Evaluation, Skills Development Act, SAQA Act, Further
Education and Training Qualification Act. Job related skills: Facilitation &
Project Management skills, Planning, Initiative, Interpersonal skills and
Problem solving.
DUTIES : Render recruitment and selection of department’s bursary holders. Conduct
needs analysis annually to identify and prioritize skills in agriculture and
produce annual bursary adverts. Facilitate the advertisement of bursary
opportunities in the national print and electronic media. Distribute the advert
and posters to the relevant stakeholders (Provincial Departments of
Agriculture, municipalities, ARC, High School, Tertiary Institutions, community
libraries, labour regional office, internet/intranet and members of the public).
Conduct response handling on bursary application and execute the following:
Receive, sort and capture application forms in response to the advert. Draft
and send regret and acknowledgement letters and request outstanding
documents. Conduct preliminary selection using the 14 points system of all
relevant applications and prepare files for the selection committee. Organize
and carry out all logistical arrangement to host the National Bursary Committee
(NBC) meeting which finalizes bursary awards. Compile a comprehensive list
of successful candidates approved by the selection committee. Prepare
bursary award letters for new bursary holders in various fields of studies and
informed candidates about the success of the bursary application. Coordinate
the signing of bursary contracts by successful candidates. Respond to
telephone queries and appeal letters from members of the public including
emails and physical visits. Inform various institutions about new and current
bursaries. Render administration and information management services.
Create and continuously update files for each bursary holder with relevant
documents. Populate and update databases: such as database of all
beneficiaries, database of discontinued and suspension of studies, database
of National Bursary Committee (NBC). Prepare financial guarantee letters for
old bursary holders who are continuing with their studies, bursary
reinstatement letters and bursary extension letters. Prepare and send
confirmation list of all bursary holders of institution of learning. Compile fees
structure per institution hosting DoA bursary holders and process payments of
tuition, accommodation, books, meals and monthly allowance. Continuously
analyse and verify the students accounts. Monitor expenditure of bursary funds
by beneficiaries and compile monthly and quarterly reports thereof. Reconcile
on monthly basis amount paid to institutions as per drawdown schedule of
payments done by NFSAS against the approved fees structure. Compilation of
7
reports. Receive, verify and process invoices payments of bursary funds to
high school bursary holders. Compile Annual Report on the implementation of
the External Bursary Scheme. Compile briefing reports of bursary awards.
Compile ToRs of the bursary monitoring meetings. Compile minutes of the
meetings. Compile and package necessary information (evidence) required by
Auditor-General during auditing period. Conduct bursary monitoring meetings.
Execute all logistical arrangements for bursary monitoring meeting (arrange
venues, transport, invitation, agenda, documents etc). Conduct monitoring
meetings at institutions of higher learning where DoA bursary holders are
registered. Orientation meetings to check settlement of new bursary holders
and to ensure that they have all resources. Group monitoring meetings to
address bursary holders on cross cutting issues like External Bursary Policy
and procedures, do’s and don’ts, what is covered by the bursary etc. Meetings
with financial aid officers at institutions of higher learning and principals of
schools to verify if bursary funds paid is used for the purpose it is meant for.
Facilitate job / experiential placement of bursary holders within the department
and with the relevant industries. Compile a list of bursary holder who need
experiential / internship training or vacation work annually. Advise bursary
holders to develop job search skills such as CV writing and job interview skills.
Lobbying with employers from the sectors to recruit DoA completing bursary
holders. Link bursary holders with companies and organisations after
completion of studies. Provide secretarial support and general administrative
support during interviews conducted to appoint completing bursary holders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Phillemon Mathebula Tel No: (012) 319 7843
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
Borecruit21@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Males, White Males and Persons with disability.
8
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
Note: All costs associated with an application will be borne by the applicant. The Department of
Correctional Services is an equal opportunity employer. The Department will take into consideration the
objectives of Section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 (Act 108 of 1996)
and the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) in filling of these vacancies. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions. In
support of this strategy, applicants need to indicate race, gender and disability status on the application
form/CV. Applicants who have retired from the Public Service with a specific determination that they
cannot be re-appointed or have been declared medically unfit will not be considered.
APPLICATIONS : Kindly indicate the reference number on the subject line for emailed
applications. Indicate the reference number and position you are applying for
on your application form (Z83) and post OR email your complete application to
the address as indicated below: Send your complete application to: Free State
And Northern Cape Region: The Regional Commissioner Free State and
Northern Cape, Recruitment Section, P/Bag X20530, Bloemfontein, 9300 OR
hand deliver at: 103 Zastron Street, Agrimed Building, Bloemfontein, 9300 OR
you can email your application to FSNCHRM@dcs.gov.za. Contact persons:
Ms Mokuni NJ/ Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms. Ramncwana B/ Ms Radebe T at 082 306
9027.
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026 @ 15h45.
NOTE : Please take note that correspondence will only be conducted with the
shortlisted candidates. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months
of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application is
unsuccessful. Please do not call the department to enquire about the progress
of your application. Applicants must note that further checks will be conducted
once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to positive
outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance, security vetting,
qualification verification and criminal records verification. Appointment will be
provisional, pending the issue of a security clearance. If you cannot get a
security clearance, your appointment will be re-considered/possibly
terminated. Fingerprints may be taken on the day of the interview. Applications:
Applications must be submitted on the Z83 form (Public Service application
form) obtainable from any Public Service department and must be completed
in full. Only a detailed CV should be attached to your application form. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies not older than
6 months of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview. Please send a complete application for the post you apply for on
a pdf format, stating the correct reference for the position you are interested in.
Requirement for valid driver’s licence is not applicable to applicants with a
disability. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other will be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. Candidates must comply with the minimum
appointment requirements. CV’s should be aligned to reflect one’s degree of
compliance with the advert requirements and responsibilities. It is the sole
responsibility of an applicant to ensure that their application reaches DCS
before the closing date of 08 May 2026 @ 15h45. Preference may be given to
suitably qualified applicants who are currently employed at Mangaung
Correctional Centre, based on relevant qualifications, experience and
operational requirements. Experience at Mangaung Correctional Centre will be
considered an added advantage. Successful candidates who are currently
employed at Mangaung Correctional Centre and who have not completed the
required Correctional Services Learnership/Basic Training will be required to
undergo the prescribed Department of Correctional Services training following
appointment. All appointments are subject to personnel suitability checks and
will be made in accordance with applicable legislation, policies, and fair
recruitment practices. The Department of Correctional Services reserves the
right not to fill any of these advertised posts.
9
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/07 : HEAD OF CORRECTIONAL CENTRE (CB 6) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/01
SALARY : R1 042 434 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Behavioural Sciences and successful
completion of the Corrections Science Learnership/ Basic Training. Seven (7)
years relevant experience in a supervisory post. Valid driver’s licence.
Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the use of
relevant security technology. Strategic capability and leadership, policy
development and good communication skills. Sound project and programme
management skills. Transformation, change and conflict management abilities.
Stakeholder management skills. Problem solving, analysis and decision-
making skills. Service delivery innovation. People management and
empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security within a
correctional environment. Integrity and honesty. Good interpersonal relations.
Knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111 of 1998.
DUTIES : Management of all aspects of the Correctional Centre on a day to day basis
through the implementation of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111 of 1998.
Manage the implementation of the imperatives of the White Paper on
Corrections. Management of case management administration, security,
development and care, unit management and case management committees.
Foster a working relationship with the Justice Cluster and the community.
Monitor, evaluate and take appropriate action in relation to outcomes on the
risk trends. Management of performance information. Manage human
resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at 082 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/08 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1-3 REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/28
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a medical officer. Registration with the
HPCSA as a medical practitioner. Basic medical degree (MBCHB or
equivalent). Grade 1: No experience required. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as Medical Officer after registration with the HPCSA as
a Medical Practitioner. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience
as Medical Officer after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes:
Excellent clinical skills; history taking; examination; clinical assessment and
management procedures. Good professional attitude, communication skills
and ethics in relation to patients/relevant stakeholders. Knowledge of public
health legislation. Financial management. Project and programme
management, transformation management, change management and
stakeholder management skills. Problem solving and analysis, service delivery
innovation, decision making, people management and empowerment and
evaluation skills. Integrity and honesty. Teamwork ability. Confidentiality and
good interpersonal relations. Assertiveness and ability to network. Good
understanding of the public service policy and legislative framework.
DUTIES : Facilitate and support the provision of primary health care services. Render
basic medical health care services to inmates. Improve clinical quality of
primary health care services through direct patient care, mentoring and
supervision of health care professionals through an integrated approach
programme. Render medico-legal services. Attendance of relevant
administrative and clinical meetings. Improve the quality of medical care by
providing appropriate clinical care services and maintain good medical
practice. Implement and monitor adherence to national standards. Implement
and monitor compliance with Standard Treatment Guidelines and Essential
Medicine List as per Essential Drug Programme: South Africa. Facilitate and
10
coordinate medical emergency preparedness and life support services.
Provide emergency medical care, including after hours. Refer patients to
authorised and recognised health care providers. Liaise with internal and
external counterparts regarding healthcare delivery. Management of
performance information, human resources, finance and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 13/09 : PSYCHOLOGISTS: GRADE 1 REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/29 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R872 709 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12 and appropriate qualification that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Clinical Psychologist.
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Psychologist. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
And Attributes: Financial management. Problem solving and decision-making.
Facilitation skills. Plan, organise, lead and control. Change management. Team
leadership. Project management. Presentation skills. Conflict management.
Report writing. Training and development. Time management. Confidentiality.
Coaching and mentoring. Understanding of the Public Service policy and
legislative framework. Service delivery and client orientation. Integrity and
honesty. Assertiveness. Ability to network. Influence and impact. Applied
strategic thinking. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Render psychological services to inmates, parolees and probationers. Co-
ordinate the rendering of psychological services to inmates, parolees and
probationers. Liaise with internal and external organizations for the provision
of psychological services.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 13/10 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/30
SALARY : R848 862 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Basic qualification accredited with the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC)
that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist. Registration with the
SAPC as a Pharmacist. Valid drivers’ licence. Computer literate. Competencies
And Attributes: Understanding of Public Service policy and legislative
framework. Knowledge of public health. Good financial management,
communication, evaluation, problem solving and analysis skills. Effective
project, programme, transformation, change and stakeholder management.
Service delivery innovation, decision making, people management,
empowerment, integrity, honesty, confidentiality and good interpersonal
relations. Accuracy, assertiveness and ability to network.
DUTIES : Manage the pharmacy facility in terms of applicable legislation, regulations and
policies. Perform risk management and networking (internal and external
stakeholders). Issuing and control of medicine. Render basic pharmaceutical
services to offenders. Maintain good medical practice. Adhere to medical
standards. Write and keep records. Provide training where necessary. Liaise
with internal and external counterparts regarding pharmaceutical delivery.
Adhere to departmental policies and orders. Effectively utilise and manage
resource (financial, human, information, pharmaceutical stock and equipment).
Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 3069027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
11
POST 13/11 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PN-B4): PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
(PHC) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/31 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R755 355 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Post
basic qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary
Health Care accredited with the SANC. A minimum of (10) years appropriate/
recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 6 years of this period must be
appropriate/ recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post basic
qualification in the relevant speciality. Further, at least (3) years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience at managerial
level. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes:
Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of nursing legislation and related legal
and ethical nursing practises and how these impact on service delivery. Ensure
clinical nursing practice by the nursing team (unit) in accordance with the scope
of practice and nursing standards as determined by the relevant health facility.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by the relevant health facility.
Demonstrate a basic understanding of HR and financial policies and practices.
Demonstrate effective communication with patients, supervisors, other health
professionals and junior colleagues, including more complex report writing
when required. Work as part of a multidisciplinary team at unit level to ensure
good nursing care by the nursing team. Work effectively and amicably, at a
supervisory level, with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or
religious differences. Able to manage own work, time and that of junior
colleagues to ensure proper nursing service in the unit. Display a concern for
patients, promoting, advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and
ensuring that the unit adheres to the principles of Batho Pele. Able to develop
contacts, build and maintain a network of professional relations in order to
enhance service delivery. Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support
tool to enhance service delivery.
DUTIES : Ensure that a comprehensive nursing treatment and care service is delivered
to patients in a cost effective, efficient and equitable manner, including the
overall management of nursing services (i.e. operational, HR and Finance of
the nursing department). Ensure compliance to professional and ethical
practice. Ensure that the clinical nursing practice by the nursing team in the
facility is rendered in accordance with the scope of practice and nursing
standards as determined by relevant health facility. Promote quality nursing
care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards as
determined by the relevant health facility. Management of performance
information. Management of human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 13/12 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
(PHC) (REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/32 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/diploma in nursing or an equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Post
basic qualification with a duration of at least one (1) year in curative skills in
Primary Health Care accredited with the SANC. A minimum of nine (9) years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least five (5) years
of the said period must be appropriate/ recognisable experience after obtaining
the one (1) year post basic qualification in the relevant speciality. Registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Computer literate. Valid driver’s
licence. Competencies And Attributes: Demonstrate an in depth understanding
of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practises and how
these impact on service delivery. Ensure clinical nursing practice by the nursing
12
team (unit) in accordance with the scope of practice and nursing standards as
determined by the relevant health facility. Promote quality of nursing care as
directed by the professional scope of practice and standards as determined by
the relevant health facility. Demonstrate a basic understanding of HR and
financial policies and practices. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors, other health professionals and junior colleagues,
including more complex report writing when required. Work as part of a
multidisciplinary team at unit level to ensure good nursing care by the nursing
team. Work effectively and amicably, at a supervisory level, with persons of
diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to manage own
work, time and that of junior colleagues to ensure proper nursing service in the
unit. Display a concern for patients, promoting, advocating and facilitating
proper treatment and care and ensuring that the unit adheres to the principles
of Batho Pele. Able to develop contacts, build and maintain a network of
professional relations in order to enhance service delivery. Demonstrate basic
computer literacy as a support tool to enhance service delivery.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision in the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice/ quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practices). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations. Display a
concern for patients. Promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including an awareness and willingness to respond to patient’s needs,
requirements and expectations (Batho Pele Principles). Maintain the quality of
nursing data and information and utilize it to advise accordingly. Advance and
evaluate the quality and cost-effectiveness of nursing care. Ensure that a
comprehensive general nursing service is delivered to patients in a cost
effective, efficient and equitable manner at a primary health care facility. Ensure
compliance to professional and ethical practice. Ensure clinical nursing
practice by the nursing team (unit) in accordance with the scope of practice
and nursing standards as determined by the relevant health facility. Promote
quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and
standards as determined by the relevant health facility. Management of human
resource, finance and assets. Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 13/13 : CENTRE COORDINATOR: CORRECTIONS (CB 5) REF NO: FSNC
2026/04/02
SALARY : R579 738 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Behavioural Sciences and successful
completion of the Corrections Science Learnership/ Basic Training. Seven (7)
years relevant experience in a supervisory post. Valid driver’s licence.
Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the use of
relevant security technology. Communication skills. Project and programme
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving and analysis. Service delivery innovation. Decision making. People
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good inter-
personal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111 of
1998, as amended. Assertiveness. Ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Ensure the development of correctional sentence plan and
facilitate the implementation thereof. Execute correctional policies and
procedures. Coordinate the collation and dissemination of correction
information. Coordinate activities relating to rehabilitation, case management
administration and unit management systems. Promote corrections and
security. Manage human resources, finance and assets. Management of
performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
13
POST 13/14 : CENTRE COORDINATOR: OPERATIONAL SUPPORT (CB 5) REF NO:
FSNC 2026/04/03
SALARY : R579 738 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Behavioural Sciences and successful
completion of the Corrections Science Learnership/ Basic Training. Seven (7)
years relevant experience in a supervisory post. Valid driver’s licence.
Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the use of
relevant security technology. Communication skills. Project and programme
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving and analysis. Service delivery innovation. Decision making. People
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good inter-
personal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111 of
1998, as amended. Assertiveness. Ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Execution of control regarding safe custody, physical care and treatment.
Create secure environment conducive for rehabilitation. Execution of control
regarding the establishment and rendering of security. Provide advice on
departmental policy directives. Management of inmates’ safe custody (internal
and external security). Management of development and care and health care
services. Manage human resources, finance and assets. Management of
performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/15 : CENTRE COORDINATOR: STAFF SUPPORT (CB 5) (REF NO: FSNC
2026/04/04
SALARY : R579 738 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Human Resources and successful
completion of the Corrections Science Learnership/ Basic training. Seven (7)
years relevant experience in a supervisory post. Valid driver’s licence.
Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the use of
relevant security technology. Communication skills. Project and programme
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving and analysis. Service delivery innovation. Decision making. People
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good inter-
personal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111 of
1998, as amended. Assertiveness. Ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Provide human resources and related functions to the correctional centre.
Effective management of the registration activities. Ensure proper
dissemination of information for the correctional centre. Management of duty
register and leave arrangements. Management of human resources, finances
and assets. Management of correctional centre through the implementation of
correctional services act, Act 111 of 1998 as amended. Management of
performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/16 : CHAIRPERSON: CASE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (CB 5) REF NO:
FSNC 2026/04/05
SALARY : R579 738 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Behavioural Sciences and successful
completion of the Corrections Science Learnership/ Basic Training. Seven (7)
years relevant experience in a supervisory post. Valid driver’s licence.
Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the use of
relevant security technology. Communication skills. Project and programme
14
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving and analysis. Service delivery innovation. Decision making. People
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good inter-
personal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111 of
1998, as amended. Assertiveness. Ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Planning of the activities of the Case Management Committee (CMC). Holding
of meetings of the CMC. Management of sentence plans. Control of inmates’
records. Management of inmates in assessment, housing, special care and in
pre-release units. Management of human resources, finances and assets.
Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/17 : DIVISIONAL HEAD: FOOD SERVICES (CB 4) (REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/06
SALARY : R491 799 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Food/ Chef Services or equivalent and
successful completion of the Corrections Science Learnership/ Basic Training.
Seven (7) years relevant experience gained in a supervisory post. Valid driver’s
licence. Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Strong people
management and leadership abilities. Ability to work under pressure in a
regulated environment. Good problem-solving and decision-making skills. High
level of integrity, professionalism and confidentiality. Awareness of security
protocols and risk management. Networking/ liaison with internal and external
stakeholders. Good communication and report writing skills. Knowledge of
Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations and Public Finance
Management Act.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise the operations of the kitchen. Plan, prepare and
oversee daily meal production in accordance with approved menus and dietary
standards. Ensure meals meet nutritional requirements and accommodate
special dietary needs (medical, religious, cultural). Manage meal schedules to
ensure timeous and secure serving of food to all inmates. Supervise, train and
schedule kitchen staff and assigned inmates. Ensure proper conduct, discipline
and adherence to security procedures within the kitchen area. Provide on-the-
job training and skills development to inmates, where applicable. Ensure full
compliance with food safety, hygiene and sanitation regulations. Maintain high
standards of cleanliness in all kitchen and storage areas. Conduct regular
inspections and take corrective action where necessary. Enforce correctional
centre security procedures related to tools, equipment and supplies. Maintain
accurate records of kitchen equipment, utensils and controlled items. Report
any security breaches, safety hazards or incidents immediately. Manage
ordering, receipt, storage and stock rotation of food supplies. Monitor inventory
levels and minimize waste and losses. Ensure compliance with budgetary
controls and cost management targets. Keep accurate records of meals
produced, inventory, staff attendance and incidents. Prepare operational
reports as required by management. Assist with audits, inspections and
compliance reporting. Provide safe and secure detention, rehabilitation
process and humane incarceration in a correctional environment. Management
of human resources, finances and assets. Manage of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/18 : DIVISIONAL HEAD: SECURITY (INTERNAL) (CB 4) REF NO: FSNC
2026/04/07
SALARY : R491 799 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Behavioural Sciences and successful
completion of the Corrections Science Learnership/ Basic Training. Seven (7)
years relevant experience gained in a supervisory post. Valid driver’s licence.
Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the use of
15
relevant security technology. Communication, project and programme
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving, analysis, service delivery Innovation, decision making, people
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good
interpersonal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111
of 1998, as amended. Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Manage security matters. Responsible for maintenance of existing security
matters and the upgrading thereof. Implement departmental policies. Advice
management regarding security matters. Management of escorts to hospitals,
courts and other destinations. Keep personnel up to date regarding security
matters. Management of human resources, finances and assets. Manage of
performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/19 : DIVISIONAL HEAD: DEVELOPMENT (CB 4) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/08
SALARY : R491 799 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Education and Training or
Training/Educational Management/M + 4 qualification in Education. Successful
completion of the Corrections Science Learnership/ Basic Training. Seven (7)
years relevant experience gained in a supervisory post. Valid driver’s licence.
Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Good communication, report
writing and listening skills. Negotiation, problem solving, analysis and
presentation skills. Fire-arm skills and the use of relevant security technology.
Project and programme management. Transformation, change and
stakeholder management. Service delivery innovation, decision making,
people management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and
security in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality,
good interpersonal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act,
Act 111 of 1998, as amended. Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Management of formal education. The management of academic tuition to
school students. The management of examinations and skills development.
The management of vocational training, examinations and trade tests.
Management of arts, culture, sport and recreation. The supervision of the
correctional centre library. The management of arts and cultural activities.
Management of human resources, finances and assets. Manage of
performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/20 : DIVISIONAL HEAD: CARE (CB 4) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/09
SALARY : R491 799 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Social Work or Nursing. Successful
completion of the Corrections Science Learnership/ Basic Training. Seven (7)
years relevant experience gained in a supervisory post. Valid driver’s licence.
Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Good communication, report
writing and listening skills. Negotiation, problem solving, analysis and
presentation skills. Fire-arm skills and the use of relevant security technology.
Project and programme management. Transformation, change and
stakeholder management. Service delivery innovation, decision making,
people management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and
security in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality,
good interpersonal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act,
Act 111 of 1998, as amended. Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Coordination of Corrections and Care services. Implement Corrections and
Care strategies. Implement Corrections and Care services level agreement
standards. Networking and attending meetings with internal and external
stakeholders. Serve as an advocacy for the Department to the community.
16
Implement policy and guidelines. Monitor and evaluate policy implementation.
Ensure adherence to policies and guidelines by functionaries. Provide statutory
guidelines on inspection manuals, brochures and pamphlets. Coordinate latest
training developments and requirements with external roleplayers. Provide
safe and secure detention, rehabilitation process and humane incarceration in
a correctional environment. Management of human resources, finances and
assets. Manage of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/21 : DIVISIONAL HEAD: CASE MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION (CB 4) REF
NO: FSNC 2026/04/10
SALARY : R491 799 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Behavioural Sciences and successful
completion of the Corrections Science Learnership/Basic Training. Seven (7)
years relevant experience gained in a supervisory post. Valid driver’s licence.
Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the use of
relevant security technology. Communication, project and programme
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving, analysis, service delivery innovation, decision making, people
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good
interpersonal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111
of 1998, as amended. Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Management of admission and release system. Supervision of offender
movements, offender cash administration and offender bail/fine payments.
Ensure continuity and consistency in case management administration.
Management of human resources, finance and assets. Management of
performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/22 : DIVISIONAL HEAD: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (CB 4) REF NO:
FSNC 2026/04/11
SALARY : R491 799 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Human Resource Management and
successful completion of the Corrections Science Learnership/ Basic Training.
Seven (7) years relevant experience gained in a supervisory post. Valid driver’s
licence. Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the
use of relevant security technology. Communication, project and programme
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving, analysis, service delivery Innovation, decision making, people
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good
interpersonal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111
of 1998, as amended. Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Provide human resources functions at the correctional centre. Manage the
registration activities. Ensure proper dissemination of information for the
correctional centre. Management of duty registers and leave arrangements.
Ensure that disciplinary measures are instituted where necessary. Act as
initiator in disciplinary hearings. Management of human resources, finances
and assets. Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/23 : DIVISIONAL HEAD: FINANCE (CB 4) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/12
SALARY : R491 799 per annum
17
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized three-year degree/diploma in Accounting or Financial
Management with (7) years relevant experience. Successful completion of the
Corrections Science Learnership/ Basic Training. Computer literate. Valid
Driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Financial management and
facilitation skills. Plan, organize, lead and control. Project management,
presentation skills, conflict management, report writing, time management,
confidentiality, coaching and mentoring. Understanding of Public Service Policy
and legislative framework. Knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111
of 1998. Service delivery and client orientation. Integrity and honesty,
Assertiveness. Influence and impact. Decision making, problem solving,
networking/liaison with stakeholders and negotiation. Excellent verbal and
written communication skills. Strong leadership qualities, initiative and drive.
Proven knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 and Treasury
Regulations relating to financial management and accounting. Experience in
procurement administration and public finance administration at management
level.
DUTIES : Inspection of financial administration at the correctional centre. Ensuring the
correct management of special function accounts. Ensuring control over all
financial documentation. Ensure the correct management of ledgers.
Monitoring of expenditure within the bounds of allocated funds. Investigate
irregularities in financial management at the correctional centre. Ensure the
correct distribution of funds and the inclusion of approved new
services/expansions in the budget. Submission of recommendations on the
financing of activities. Ensure that financial requirements by individual sections
are correctly reflected on the appropriate budgetary responsibilities/objectives
and on the budgetary reports. Ensure optimum utilization of resources with
regard to management of budgets within the framework of relevant legal
directives and regulations. Management of human resources, finances and
assets. Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/24 : UNIT MANAGERS: (CB 4) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/13 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R491 799 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Behavioural Sciences and successful
completion of the Corrections Science Learnership/ Basic Training. Seven (7)
years relevant experience gained in a supervisory post. Valid driver’s licence.
Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Financial management and
facilitation skills. Plan, organize, lead and control. Project management,
presentation skills, conflict management, report writing, time management,
confidentiality, coaching and mentoring. Understanding of Public Service Policy
and legislative framework. Knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111
of 1998. Service delivery and client orientation. Integrity and honesty,
Assertiveness. Influence and impact. Decision making, problem solving,
networking/liaison with stakeholders and negotiation. Excellent verbal and
written communication skills. Strong leadership qualities, initiative and drive.
Proven knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 and Treasury
Regulations relating to financial management and accounting. Experience in
procurement administration and public finance administration at management
level.
DUTIES : Manage the safe custody of offenders. Manage the process of representation
of offenders. Develop measures for handling offender complaints and requests.
Facilitate the induction of new offenders. Implementation of unit management
principles. Management of case files. Provision of infrastructural needs to
enhance the implementation of unit management principles. Manage human
resource, finance and assets. Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
18
POST 13/25 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A (ASSET MAINTENANCE) REF NO: FSNC
2026/04/33
SALARY : R480 261 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate trade test certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training Act
(Red Seal). Ten years post qualification experience required as an
Artisan/Artisan Foreman. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes:
Project management. Technical design and analysis knowledge. Computer-
aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report
writing. Technical consulting. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making, team work, creativity, change
management, financial management, customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication, planning and organising skills.
DUTIES : Manage technical services and support in conjunction with
Technicians/Artisans and associates in field, workshop and technical office
activities. Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Provide inputs into existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure quality
assurance in line with specifications. Manage administrative and related
functions. Provide inputs into the budgeting process. Compile and submit
reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical operational
plan. Update databases. Management of human resource, finance and assets.
Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 13/26 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/34 (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R477 564 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : BA degree in Social Work and seven (7) years relevant experience in social
work after registration with the South African Council for Social Services
Profession (SACSSP). Current registration with the South African Council for
Social Services Professions. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence.
Competencies And Attributes: Conversant with acts, policies and legislation
pertaining to social work practice. Understanding of human behaviour social
systems. Social work intervention. Empowerment, confidentiality, time
management and listening skills. Interpersonal, client orientation and good
communication skills. Empathy, tactfulness, integrity and honesty. Good report
writing skills. Adaptability. Conflict management. Ability to coordinate and
collaborate with internal and external stakeholders.
DUTIES : Provide needs-based social work services to offenders through individual
attention, group work and community work. Conduct research and social work
administration. Conduct individual assessments. Market social work service.
Monitor and evaluate social work interventions. Provide guidance to
subordinates and ensure that the requirements of the operational plans are
complied with. Manage human resources, finance and assets. Management of
performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 13/27 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1: PN-B1 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/35 (X12 POSTS)
SALARY : R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/national diploma in nursing. A post basic qualification with a duration
of at least 1 year in Curative Skills in Primary Health Care accredited with the
SANC. Current registration with the council as a professional nurse. A minimum
of 4 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration as
19
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Computer literate. Valid
driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Demonstrate an understanding
of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practises within a
primary health care environment. Perform a clinical nursing practice in
accordance with the scope of practice and nursing standards as determined
for a primary health care facility. Promote quality of nursing care as directed by
the professional scope of practice and standards as determined for a primary
health care facility. Demonstrate a basic understanding of HR and financial
policies and practices. Demonstrate effective communication with patients,
supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when required. Work
as part of the multidisciplinary team to ensure good nursing care at primary
health care level. Work effectively, co-operatively and amicably with persons of
diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and
organise own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Display a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper
treatment and care including awareness and willingness to respond to patient’s
needs, requirements and expectations (Batho Pele).
DUTIES : Provide quality comprehensive primary health care services through promoting
preventative, curative and rehabilitative services for offenders. Perform clinical
nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and nursing
standards for primary health care. Conduct routine examination of offenders
and treatment of minor ailments according to scope of practice. Render
administrative services such as providing accurate statistics for evaluation and
future planning. Identifying needs for financial planning and indirect control of
expenditure as an integral part of planning and organizing, including ordering
and control of medicine and medical stock. Develop and ensure
implementation of nursing care plans. Updating of offender’s records and
participate in clinical records audits. Provide safe and therapeutic environment
as laid down by the Nursing, Occupational Health and Safety Act and all other
applicable prescripts. Manage human resources, finance and assets.
Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 13/28 : SECTION HEAD: EDUCATIONIST REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/14
SALARY : R438 585 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised National Diploma/ Degree or equivalent qualification in Education
and registration with the South African Council of Educators (SACE). Six (6)
years relevant experience gained after registration with SACE. Valid driver’s
licence. Registration with the South African Council of Educators.
Competencies And Attributes: Plan, organise, lead and control. Client
orientation and communication. Policy implementation. Report writing.
Diversity management. Training and development. Service delivery innovation
and creativity. Project management, conflict management and facilitation
management skills. Integrity and honesty. Coaching and mentoring. Good work
ethics. Confidentiality. Good interpersonal relations. Openness and
transparency. Networking. Influence and impact. Willingness to travel.
Presentation, conceptual and conflict management skills.
DUTIES : Quality assessment of education services. Monitor performance in education
services. Evaluate and ensure service levels. Undertake educational research.
Investigate learner related complaints. Plan educational activities. Manage
training requirements. Arrange training workshops. Manage human resource,
finance and assets. Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : ree State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/29 : CASE MANAGEMENT SUPERVISOR: (CB 3-1) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/15
(X14 POSTS)
SALARY : R404 466 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
20
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Behavioural Sciences and successful
completion of the Corrections Science learnership/ Basic Training. Five (5)
years relevant experience gained at a production post (CB2). Valid driver’s
licence. Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the
use of relevant security technology. Communication, project and programme
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving, analysis, service delivery innovation, decision making, people
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good
interpersonal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111
of 1998, as amended. Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Supervise and maintain security of the unit in a correctional centre. Ensure safe
custody of offenders. Supervision of offenders’ programmes. The
implementation and following of the day structured programme and regular
progress report. Management and review of case file. Provide guidance and
support to case officers with the updating of offenders’ case files and in
determining of aspects for specific counselling. Provide support on the
development of offenders. Provide guidance and support to case officers in
observing problematic behaviour, defining causes, results and possible
remedies to address these, referring offenders to Social Workers, Education
and Psychologists personnel for attention. Manager of the correctional case
management team. Provide guidance and support to offenders in their
progress with regard to developmental programmes. Management of human
resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/30 : SECTION HEAD (SUPERVISOR): EXTERNAL SECURITY (CB 3-1) REF NO:
FSNC 2026/04/16 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R404 466 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Behavioural Sciences and successful
completion of the Corrections Science learnership/ Basic Training. Five (5)
years relevant experience gained at a production post (CB2). Valid driver’s
licence. Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the
use of relevant security technology. Communication, project and programme
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving, analysis, service delivery innovation, decision making, people
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good
interpersonal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111
of 1998, as amended. Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Supervision of entry control to prison grounds. Preventing access to/from the
prison by unauthorized persons. Preventing entry/removal of unauthorized
items. Supervision of patrol of prison grounds. Detection and prevention of
escapes. Prevention of the theft of government property. Supervision of the
manning of watch towers. Standing guard to prevent the escape of offenders.
Prevention of the smuggling of unauthorized items. Supervision escort of
offenders to courts, doctors, hospitals etc. Ensure correct staff utilisation when
accompanying offenders to external institutions in order to prevent escapes
and the smuggling of unauthorized items. Prevention of unauthorized contact
with offenders. Supervision of guarding of offenders at work teams. Prevention
of unauthorized contact with offenders outside the prison. Ensure the safety of
offenders and searching of offenders. Supervision of guarding of offenders in
external hospitals. Supervision of visits to offenders. Supervision of contact
visits. Control of security equipment. Searching of cells, offenders, other areas
of prison and work areas, etc. Ensure that sufficient staff are available for the
searching offenders and work areas. Supervision of the dog unit. Supervision
of the mounted unit. Management of human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
21
POST 13/31 : SECTION HEAD (SUPERVISOR): INTERNAL SECURITY (CB 3-1) REF NO:
FSNC 2026/04/17 (X12 POSTS)
SALARY : R404 466 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Behavioural Sciences and successful
completion of the Corrections Science learnership/ Basic Training. Five (5)
years relevant experience gained at a production post (CB2). Valid driver’s
licence. Computer literate. Competencies and Attributes: Firearm skills and the
use of relevant security technology. Communication, project and programme
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving, analysis, service delivery innovation, decision making, people
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good
interpersonal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111
of 1998, as amended. Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Supervision of entry control to prison grounds, sections and cells. Supervision
of the issuing of security equipment/manning of security systems. Supervision
of escort of offenders inside prison. Accompanying of offenders to other
sections in order to prevent escapes and the smuggling of unauthorized items.
Supervision of visits to offenders. Identification of visitors/offenders. Collection
of offenders. Control of security equipment in the armoury. Supervision of
offenders in accommodation sections. Searching of cells, offenders, other
areas of prison and work areas etc. Ensure that sufficient staff are available for
the searching offenders during march-in. Supervision of the section store and
the prison laundry. Management of human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/32 : SECTION HEAD (SUPERVISOR): SPORTS AND RECREATION (CB 3- 1)
REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/18
SALARY : R404 466 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant degree or national diploma in Sport Management Sciences/
Behavioural Sciences and successful completion of the Corrections Science
learnership/ Basic Training. Five (5) years relevant experience gained at a
production post (CB2). Valid driver’s licence. Computer literate. Competencies
And Attributes: Firearm skills and the use of relevant security technology.
Communication, project and programme management. Transformation,
change and stakeholder management. Problem solving, analysis, service
delivery innovation, decision making, people management and empowerment.
In depth understanding of safety and security in a correctional environment.
Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good interpersonal relations and
knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111 of 1998, as amended.
Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : The supervision of the prison library. Implementation and maintenance of
administrative control system regarding the issuing/receiving of
books/periodicals. Obtaining of new books/periodicals. The management of
arts and cultural activities. Establishment of concert groups. Establishment of
offender choirs. The management of recreation and sport. Establish sporting
codes for the correctional centre. Provide information and training to
participants. Treatment of offenders. Ensure that offenders have the
opportunity to attend social work sessions. Ensure that offenders have the
opportunity to participate in educational programs. Maintenance of safe
custody. Searching of venues and offenders for contraband. Ensure that
contra-band/dangerous objects are removed and safely stored. Management
of human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
22
POST 13/33 : EDUCATIONIST (M+4) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/19 (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R360 837 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12 and recognized 4-year degree or equivalent qualification in
Education that allows registration with the South African Council for Educators.
Registration with the South African Council for Educators. Computer literate.
Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Plan, organise, lead and
control. Client orientation and communication. Policy implementation, report
writing, diversity management, training and development. Service delivery
innovation and creativity. Project management, conflict management and
facilitation management. Integrity and honesty. Knowledge and understanding
of the public service management frame-work. Influence and impact.
Presentation, conceptual and conflict management skills.
DUTIES : Implement educational programs for offenders. Implement educational policy
at the correctional facility in the management area. Adhere to set standards for
education services in accordance with government education departments.
Assess educational services. Ensure service level standards for education and
training. Management of human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/34 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/36 (X12 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 200 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : BA degree in Social Work. Registration with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence.
Competencies And Attributes: Problem solving and decision making,
facilitation, plan, organize, lead and control, project management, presentation
and counselling skills. Ability to interpret policy/legislation. Conflict
management, coaching and mentoring. Understanding of Public Service policy
and legislative framework. Service delivery and client orientation. Integrity and
honesty. Assertiveness, willingness to travel, influence and impact and ability
to network. Ability to coordinate and collaborate with internal and external
stakeholders.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Provide needs-based social work services to offenders
through individual attention, group work, community work, research and social
work administration. Conduct individual assessments. Market social work
services. Monitor and evaluate social work, intervention work, community work,
research and social work administration. Manage human resources, finance
and assets. Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act
POST 13/35 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (GENERAL NURSING) REF NO: FSNC
2026/04/37) (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R324 384 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/national diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse.
Current registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC). Computer
literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Knowledge of
nursing care process and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant legal
frameworks including grievance procedure and disciplinary code and
procedure, communication, report-writing, liaison, coordination, facilitation,
problem-solving, planning and organising skills.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision in the implementation of the nursing plan
(Clinical practice/quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
healthcare in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations. Utilise human,
23
material and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Display a concern
for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care including an
awareness and willingness to respond to patients’ needs, requirement and
expectations (Batho Pele principles). Maintain a constructive working
relationship with nursing and other stakeholders. Management of resources.
Management of performance information
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act
POST 13/36 : CATERERS (CB 2-1) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/20 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R313 521 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 or relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Food/ Chef Services
and successful completion of the Correctional Science Learnership/ Basic
Training.10 years relevant experience gained at the entry level production post
(CB 1) or for a person appointed with a relevant NQF level 6 qualification, no
previous experience is required for appointment to this post. Valid driver’s
licence. Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the
use of relevant security technology. Communication, project and programme
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving, analysis, service delivery innovation, decision making, people
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good
interpersonal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111
of 1998, as amended. Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Prepare and serve meals to inmates. Maintain the cleanliness
of the catering equipment and kitchen. Provide catering training to offenders.
Maintain hygienic standards in the kitchen. Management of human resources,
finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/37 : SENIOR SECURITY OFFICER (TEAM LEADER): INTERNAL SECURITY
(CB 2-1) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/21 (X30 POSTS)
SALARY : R313 521 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 or relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Behavioural Sciences
and successful completion of the Correctional Science Learnership/ Basic
Training.10 years relevant experience gained at the entry level production post
(CB 1) or for a person appointed with a relevant NQF level 6 qualification, no
previous experience is required for appointment to this post. Valid driver’s
licence. Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the
use of relevant security technology. Communication, project and programme
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving, analysis, service delivery innovation, decision making, people
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good
interpersonal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111
of 1998, as amended. Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Ensure provision of Team Leader role to correctional centre prison grounds.
Preventing access to/from the correctional centre by unauthorized persons.
Preventing entry/removal of unauthorized items. Ensure patrol of correctional
centre grounds. Detection and prevention of escapes. Prevention of the theft
of government property. Coordinates manning of watch towers. Standing guard
to prevent the escape of offenders. Prevention of the smuggling of
unauthorized items. Ensure escort of offenders to courts, doctors, hospitals etc.
Ensure correct staff utilisation when accompanying offenders to external
institutions in order to prevent escapes and the smuggling of unauthorized
items. Prevention of unauthorized contact with offenders. Supervision of
guarding of offenders at work teams. Prevention of unauthorized contact with
offenders outside the prison. Ensure the safety of offenders and searching of
24
offenders. Supervision of visits to offenders. Supervision of contact visits.
Control of security equipment. Searching of cells, offenders, other areas of
prison and work areas, etc. Ensure that sufficient staff are available for the
searching offenders and work areas. Ensure Team Leader role of the dog unit
and the mounted unit. Management of human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/38 : SENIOR SECURITY OFFICER (TEAM LEADER): EXTERNAL SECURITY
(CB 2-1) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/22 (X14 POSTS)
SALARY : R313 521 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 or relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Behavioural Sciences
and successful completion of the Correctional Science Learnership/ Basic
Training.10 years relevant experience gained at the entry level production post
(CB 1) or for a person appointed with a relevant NQF level 6 qualification, no
previous experience is required for appointment to this post. Valid driver’s
licence. Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the
use of relevant security technology. Communication, project and programme
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving, analysis, service delivery innovation, decision making, people
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good
interpersonal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111
of 1998, as amended. Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Ensure provision of Team Leader role to correctional centre prison grounds.
Preventing access to/from the correctional centre by unauthorized persons.
Preventing entry/removal of unauthorized items. Ensure patrol of correctional
centre grounds. Detection and prevention of escapes. Prevention of the theft
of government property. Coordinates manning of watch towers. Standing guard
to prevent the escape of offenders. Prevention of the smuggling of
unauthorized items. Ensure escort of offenders to courts, doctors, hospitals etc.
Ensure correct staff utilisation when accompanying offenders to external
institutions in order to prevent escapes and the smuggling of unauthorized
items. Prevention of unauthorized contact with offenders. Supervision of
guarding of offenders at work teams. Prevention of unauthorized contact with
offenders outside the prison. Ensure the safety of offenders and searching of
offenders. Supervision of visits to offenders. Supervision of contact visits.
Control of security equipment. Searching of cells, offenders, other areas of
prison and work areas, etc. Ensure that sufficient staff are available for the
searching offenders and work areas. Ensure Team Leader role of the dog unit
and the mounted unit. Management of human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/39 : LIBRARIAN (CB2-1) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/23
SALARY : R313 521 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 or relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Library and Information
Sciences/ Behavioural Sciences and successful completion of the Correctional
Science Learnership/ Basic Training.10 years relevant experience gained at
the entry level production post (CB 1) or for a person appointed with a relevant
NQF level 6 qualification, no previous experience is required for appointment
to this post. Valid driver’s licence. Computer literate. Competencies And
Attributes: Firearm skills and the use of relevant security technology.
Communication, project and programme management. Transformation,
change and stakeholder management. Problem solving, analysis, service
delivery innovation, decision making, people management and empowerment.
In depth understanding of safety and security in a correctional environment.
Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good interpersonal relations and
25
knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111 of 1998, as amended.
Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Supervision and marketing of the prison library services. Implementation and
maintenance of administrative control system regarding the issuing/receiving
of books/periodicals. Obtaining of new books/periodicals. Returning of
books/periodicals to provincial libraries. Render library education programs to
the offenders. Advise readers on the use of the library. Obtain inter-library loans
for students. Assist students with the sourcing of documentation. Ordering of
intellectual material for students (also video and sound material). Manage
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/40 : SPORTS FACILITATORS (CB2-1) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/24 (X14 POSTS)
SALARY : R313 521 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 or relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Sport Management
Sciences/ Behavioural Sciences and successful completion of the Correctional
Science Learnership/ Basic Training.10 years relevant experience gained at
the entry level production post (CB 1) or for a person appointed with a relevant
NQF level 6 qualification, no previous experience is required for appointment
to this post. Recognised coaching accreditation(s) in at least one sport code
will be advantageous. Valid driver’s licence. Computer literate. Competencies
And Attributes: Valid First Aid Level 1. Basic understanding of OHSA.
Coaching, facilitation, and group management skills. Strong interpersonal and
conflict management abilities. Ability to work within secure and regulated
environment. Planning, organising and time management. Report writing and
basic data management. Integrity, professionalism and resilience. Culturally
sensitive and inclusive practice.
DUTIES : Develop and implement annual and weekly sports and recreation activity plans
aligned to rehabilitation goals. Facilitate coaching, drills, conditioning and basic
sport skills development across multiple codes (e.g., soccer, rugby, netball,
athletics, volleyball). Adapt programmes for different risk categories, abilities,
ages and special needs (including medical and disability considerations).
Integrate life skills, discipline and teamwork into sports activities. Recruit,
register and monitor offender participation in line with case management plans.
Reinforce pro-social behaviour, fair play, conflict resolution and respect.
Collaborate with psychologists, social workers, educators and CMCs to align
activities with rehabilitation and reintegration plans. Record participation,
progress and behavioural outcomes for reporting. Organise internal leagues,
tournaments, well-ness days and approved inter-centre fixtures. Coordinate
logistics (venues, fixtures, officials, first aid, equipment, refreshments) and
obtain required approvals. Ensure all activities adhere to security, safety and
crowd management protocols. Inspect and maintain sports facilities, fields,
courts and gymnasiums to safe and serviceable standards. Manage issuing of
equipment, returns, tool control and asset registers. Conduct risk assessments
and pre-activity safety briefings; ensure hydration, warm-up/cool-down, and
injury prevention practices. Coordinate first aid response and incident reporting
where needed. Provide safe and secure detention, rehabilitation process and
humane incarceration in a correctional environment. Management of human
resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/41 : SPECIALISED CASE OFFICERS (CB2-1) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/25 (X14
POSTS)
SALARY : R313 521 per annum
CENTRE Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 or relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Behavioural Sciences
and successful completion of the Correctional Science Learnership/ Basic
Training.10 years relevant experience gained at the entry level production post
26
(CB 1) or for a person appointed with a relevant NQF level 6 qualification, no
previous experience is required for appointment to this post. Valid driver’s
licence. Computer literate. Competencies And Attributes: Firearm skills and the
use of relevant security technology. Communication, project and programme
management. Transformation, change and stakeholder management. Problem
solving, analysis, service delivery innovation, decision making, people
management and empowerment. In depth understanding of safety and security
in a correctional environment. Integrity and honesty, confidentiality, good
interpersonal relations and knowledge of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111
of 1998, as amended. Assertiveness, ability to network and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Ensure the facilitation of the implementation of the offender’s
individual sentence plan. Support individual offenders in their personal
development. Ensure monitoring and evaluation reports on offender behaviour
are provided. Provide safe custody services in the unit. Ensure that complaints
and requests are registered and referred to relevant structures (Case
Management Committees, Case Management Administration). Manage
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/42 : SECURITY OFFICERS (CB1-1; CB1-2; CB1-3) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/26
(X381 POSTS)
SALARY : CB1-1: R212 358 per annum
CB1-2: R257 895 per annum
CB1-3: R313 521 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 and successful completion of the Correctional Science
Learnership/ Basic Training. CB1-1: No previous experience is required for
appointment to this post. CB1-2: (10) years relevant experience on CB1-1.
CB1-3: (10) years relevant experience on CB1-2. Competencies And
Attributes: Computer literacy. Firearm competency. Good communications,
interpersonal and report writing skills. Knowledge of relevant legislations,
policies and procedures. Knowledge of Minimum-Security Standards for
correctional centres.
DUTIES : Perform access control at the correctional centre or between areas within the
Correctional Centre. Control movement of inmates both internally and
externally. Guarding of inmates in correctional centres and external public
institutions. Perform physical security inspections. Controlling stores and
security equipment. Manage security control room. Ensure rehabilitation of
offenders through correction and human development in a secure, safe and
humane detention facility.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/43 : CASE OFFICERS (CB1-1; CB1-2; CB1-3) REF NO: FSNC 2026/04/27 (X107
POSTS)
SALARY : CB1-1: R212 358 per annum
CB1-2: R257 895 per annum
CB1-3: R313 521 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 and successful completion of the Correctional Science
Learnership/ Basic Training. CB1-1: No previous experience is required for
appointment to this post. CB1-2: (10) years relevant experience on CB1-1.
CB1-3: (10) years relevant experience on CB1-2. Competencies And
Attributes: Computer literacy. Firearm compandncy. Good communication,
interpersonal and report writing skills. Knowledge of relevant legislations,
policies and procedures. Knowledge of Minimum-Security Standards for
correctional centres.
DUTIES : Control over sentence plans. Update sentence plans with due consideration to
the recommendations of the CMC and the feedback of the responsible
functionaries. Responsible for the completion and appropriation of G331 and
27
G356 forms and updating the computer in accordance with the
decisions/recommendations of the CMC. Responsible for the referral of the
written decisions/recommendations of the committee to the correct
office/functionary. Ensure that the referral of cases/enquiries by the CMC
occurs under signature of the chairperson and that feedback is received.
Control over profile reports (G326). Compile profile reports and ensure that it
is correctly filled in. Ensure that all relevant information has been provided.
Refer profile reports to the Secretary of the CMC. Maintain profile register.
Record on computer the receipt/forwarding/receiving back of the
recommendations in respect of parole/correctional supervision per G326
forms. Documentation control. Responsible for keeping the control page G325
form up to date in respect of the recommendations/decisions made by the
CMC. Opening/closing/addressing of mail. Filing of documents. Receiving and
forwarding of documents from the CMC. Care of classified documents. Dealing
with representations. Verification of information provided. Check that
information provided on offenders is correct. Check that calculations regarding
minimum detention periods and release dates are correct. Check that all
relevant documentation is attached to submissions to the Head of the
Correctional Centre. Ensure confidentiality of correspondence between the
offender and the CMC. Check that original documentation is sent to the Head
of the Correctional Centre. Maintenance of safe custody. Searching of venues
and offenders. Ensure that offenders do not wander around uncontrolled.
Ensure that the number of offenders received and returned to units
corresponds. Ensure that equipment is not abused by offenders.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act.
POST 13/44 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (BASIC): GRADE 1-3 REF NO: FSNC
2026/04/38
SALARY : Grade 1: R162 894 per annum
Grade 2: R215 013 per annum
Grade 3: R250 383 per annum
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Mangaung Maximum Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Basic qualification as required by the training facility and the South
African Pharmacy Council (SAPC). Registration with the SAPC to study
towards a basic Pharmacist Assistant qualification. Grade 2: Basic qualification
as required by the training facility and the South African Pharmacy Council
(SAPC) and basic Pharmacist Assistant qualification that allows registration
with the SAPC as Pharmacist Assistant (basic). Registration with the SAPC as
Pharmacist Assistant (Basic) or registration with the SAPC to study towards a
Post Basic Pharmacist Assistant qualification (where applicable). Grade 3:
Basic qualification as required by the training facility and the South African
Pharmacy Council (SAPC) and basic Pharmacist Assistant qualification that
allows registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist Assistant (Basic). Registration
with the SAPC as Pharmacist Assistant (Basic) or registration with the SAPC
to study towards a Post Basic Pharmacist Assistant qualification (where
applicable). Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And
Attributes: Knowledge and experience and warehousing, logistics, supply
chain management, transportation, and the hospital pharmacy sector.
Empowerment, confidentiality, time management and listening skills.
Interpersonal, client orientation and good communication skills. Empathy,
tactfulness, integrity and honesty. Good report writing skills. Adaptability.
Conflict management. Ability to coordinate and collaborate with internal and
external stakeholders.
DUTIES : Receiving of stock from suppliers according to standard operating procedures.
Good distribution practice and good pharmacy practice standards. Offloading
trucks and moving stock into the appropriate quarantine area. Moving of stock
to storage areas and packing stock on correct shelves according to the first
expired, first out (FEFO) and first in, first out (FIFO) principle. Stock rotation
and participating in stock takes. Issuing of ordered stock according to scope of
practice to the health facility.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T/ Ms. Ramncwana B at (082) 306 9027
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
28
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
posts with candidates whose transfer/promotion/ appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2026 at 16:00 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed
copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant, and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. The shortlisted candidates including SMS will be subjected to
two (2) pre-entry assessments (practical and ethical exercise) which will
determine the candidate’s suitability. Applicants who do not receive
confirmation or feedback within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please
consider your application unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses
anticipated, receipt of applications will not be acknowledged, and
correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. For more
information on the job description(s) please contact the person indicated in the
post details. Successful candidates will be appointed on probation for the
period of twelve (12) months in terms of the prescribed rules.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/45 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: SUPERVISOR REF NO: AFBLGBW/12/13/26/01
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : AFB Langebaanweg, Langebaan
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a minimum of three (3) years
experience in Human Resource Management. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Knowledge and insight of HR legislation. Knowledge and
understanding of applicable HR prescripts. Good interpersonal skills and
communication skills (written and verbal). Must be computer literate, i.e. MS
Office Suite (Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Provide Human Resources administration capability at AFB Langebaanweg.
Administer HR Utilization Support services including HR maintenance services
such as Inland Accommodation Expenditure(S&T), Leave, Unit Schedule name
list, Flights and Car Hire requests, Termination of Services, Medals and Awards
and Reserve Force Administration. Assist in compiling and typing of routine
notes, memorandums, letters, and reports. Ensure proper adherence to HR
policies and processes of the DOD. Ensure control of the work flow to and from
relevant role players at AFB Langebaanweg. Must have the ability to develop
new ideas to change existing methods (when/as required). General
29
management of the office as well as organized office administration. Deal with
classified calls, files/documents of the Human Resource Support Section.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.L. Du Plessis/WO2 V.A. Faro Tel No: (022) 705 2515/2571
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Langebaanweg, Langebaan 7375 or
maybe hand delivered at the Main Gate AFB Langebaanweg Military Base or
emailed to lbwgmove@dod.mil.za
POST 13/46 : REGISTRY CLERK PRODUCTION REF NO: SAAFCOL/12/13/26/01 (X2
POSTS)
Re-advertised. Applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : SA Air Force College, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special requirements
(Skills needed): Knowledge of MS Word, Excel and Power Point. Typing skills.
Knowledge in management. Language proficiency in English (written and
verbal). Analytical and innovative thinking as well as problem solving Skills.
Excellent interpersonal Skills. Sound Organisational skills. High level of
reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good people skills. Ability to do
research and analyse documents and situations. Knowledge of MS Word,
Excel and Power Point. Typing skills. Language proficiency in English (written
and verbal). Analytical and innovative thinking as well as problem solving Skills.
Excellent interpersonal Skills. Sound Organisational skills. High level of
reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good people skills. Ability to do
research and analyse documents and situations.
DUTIES : Development and amendment of records management guidelines, procedures
and practices to support DOD record-keeping requirements. Identify and
review all current recordkeeping and records management procedures.
Continuous review of procedures. The management of Records Classification
Systems (ie DOD Correspondence File Plan, record retention schedules).
Administer clients' requests for amendments and additions to records
classification systems. Answer enquiries with the correct use of file references.
Execute all administrative tasks with the maintenance of the records
classification systems. Maintain and update the paper-based master copy of
the records classification systems by adding additions and amendments when
necessary. Ensure that the electronic version and the paper-based version of
the records classification systems are always synchronized.
ENQUIRIES : Maj K.L. Bosch Tel No: (012) 351 5045/5172
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Air Force College, Private Bag X1008, Thaba
Tshwane 0143 or email to: saafcolhr@dod.mil.za or may be hand delivered at
Abraham Kriel Road, Thaba Tshwane, Centurion.
POST 13/47 : SECRETARY REF NO: AFBWKLF/12/13/26/01 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : AFB Waterkloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No Experience. Special requirements
(Skills needed): Knowledge of MS Word, Excel and Power Point. Typing skills.
Language proficiency in English (written and verbal). Analytical and innovative
thinking as well as problem solving skills. Excellent Interpersonal Skills. Sound
organisational skills. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and
discretion. Good people skills. Ability to do research and analyse documents
and situations. Excellent secretarial skills.
DUTIES : Provide a Secretarial Support Service. Record appointments and events and
manage the Manager’s diary. Receive Telephone calls and refer to the correct
role players. Be responsible for the roll call of the Unit daily. Provide secretarial
functions in board meetings. Write/type documents, memorandums, letters and
reports. Compile agenda’s and take minutes during meetings. Compile minutes
correctly. Deal with classified files and documents. Arrange meetings and
events for Manager. Process the travel and subsistence claims for the
Manager. Identify venues, invite role players, organise refreshments and set
up schedules for meetings and events. Collect all relevant documents for
meetings. Keep Manager’s directory. Liaise with travel agencies to make travel
arrangements. Prepare briefing and notes for the Manager as required. Keep
a filing system. Organise social functions. Operate office equipment. Order and
purchase stationary. Keep updated with policy and procedures. Co-ordinate
logistical arrangements for meetings when required. Co-ordinate all logistical
30
arrangements for visitors visiting the Manager. Monitor the Unit monthly leave
register and telephone bills, ensuring payment is submitted on time. Remain
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
Manager. Provide support to Manager regarding meetings and scrutinize
documents to determine actions/information/other documents required for
meetings. Record all minutes/decisions and communicate to all relevant role
players and make follow-ups on progress. Prepare briefing notes for the
Manager as requested. Handle S&T advances and claims.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B. Lekgokgola/F Sgt L. Roos Tel No: (012) 672 3055
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, PO. Box X1001, Lyttleton
0140 or email to afbwklfhr@dod.mil.za or may be hand delivered at Solomon
Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378 JR, Centurion
POST 13/48 : SECRETARY REF NO: AFBDBN/12/13/26
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : AFB Durban, Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No Experience. Special requirements
(Skills needed): Knowledge of MS Word, Excel and Power Point. Typing skills.
Language proficiency in English (written and verbal). Analytical and innovative
thinking as well as problem solving skills. Excellent Interpersonal Skills. Sound
organisational skills. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and
discretion. Good people skills. Ability to do research and analyse documents
and situations. Excellent secretarial skills.
DUTIES : Provide a Secretarial Support Service. Record appointments and events and
manage the Manager’s diary. Receive Telephone calls and refer to the correct
role players. Be responsible for the roll call of the Unit daily. Provide secretarial
functions in board meetings. Write/type documents, memorandums, letters and
reports. Compile agenda’s and take minutes during meetings. Compile minutes
correctly. Deal with classified files and documents. Arrange meetings and
events for Manager. Process the travel and subsistence claims for the
Manager. Identify venues, invite role players, organise refreshments and set
up schedules for meetings and events. Collect all relevant documents for
meetings. Keep Manager’s directory. Liaise with travel agencies to make travel
arrangements. Prepare briefing and notes for the Manager as required. Keep
a filing system. Organise social functions. Operate office equipment. Order and
purchase stationary. Keep updated with policy and procedures. Co-ordinate
logistical arrangements for meetings when required. Co-ordinate all logistical
arrangements for visitors visiting the Manager. Monitor the Unit monthly leave
register and telephone bills, ensuring payment is submitted on time. Remain
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
Manager. Provide support to Manager regarding meetings and scrutinize
documents to determine actions/information/other documents required for
meetings. Record all minutes/decisions and communicate to all relevant role
players and make follow-ups on progress. Prepare briefing notes for the
Manager as requested. Handle S&T advances and claims.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B.E.Nzimande or WO H. Steenkamp Tel No: (031) 450 4734
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, AFB Durban, P.O. Box 1120, Amanzimtoti, 4125 or
emailed to afbdbnhr@dod.mil.za and maybe hand delivered at Prospecton
Road, Isipingo, 4133
POST 13/49 : PROVISIONING ADMIN CLERK REF NO: SAAFCOL/12/13/26/02
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : AFB Durban, Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No Experience. Special requirements
(Skills needed): Knowledge of MS Word, Excel and Power Point. Typing skills.
Language proficiency in English (written and verbal). Analytical and innovative
thinking as well as problem solving skills. Excellent Interpersonal Skills. Sound
organisational skills. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and
discretion. Good people skills. Ability to do research and analyse documents
and situations. Excellent secretarial skills.
DUTIES : Effective supervising of supervise food service aid, create shift schedules,
manage attendance and ensure adequate staffing. Ensure that the dining hall
is clean at all times, tables are clean, neat and set correctly according to the
menu. Train stuff on food safety. Ensure that cutlery, serviettes condiments,
butter and assorted jams are available on the tables. Maintain cleanness and
31
safety standards. Assist in preparing and serving food. Report all losses,
damages and theft observed. Ensure food quality and presentation meet
standards.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B.E.Nzimande or WO H. Steenkamp Tel No: (031) 450 4734
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, AFB Durban, P.O. Box 1120, Amanzimtoti, 4125 or
emailed to afbdbnhr@dod.mil.za and maybe hand delivered at Prospecton
Road, Isipingo, 4133.
POST 13/50 : PROVISIONING ADMIN CLERK REF NO: AFBHSPT/12/13/26/01
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : AFB Hoedspruit, Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience Special requirements
(Skills needed): Computer literate, organizing skills, good interpersonal
relationships, effective verbal and written communication, Full knowledge of
the utilisation of MS software packages.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support duties, Capturing of personnel leave and
Subsistence & Travelling, capturing of personnel performance assessments,
compiling database for skills development programmes for personnel and
capturing reports, record assets of the unit and keep them updated by maintain
the asset register and attend to telephone enquiries and maintain proper filling
of documents in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.M. Visagie /Capt. P. Ratheko Tel No: (015) 799 2924/2387
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Hoedspruit, Hoedspruit, 1380 or
emailed at Prince.Ratheko@dod.mil.za and maybe hand delivered at the main
Gate Golf 1 and Golf 8.
POST 13/51 : REGISTRY CLERK PRODUCTION REF NO: SAAFCOL/12/13/26/03
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : SA Air Force College, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special requirements
(Skills needed): Knowledge of MS suite. Language proficiency in English
(written and verbal). Analytical and innovative thinking as well as problem
Solving Skills. Ability to do research and analyse documents and situations.
Excellent record management skills. A background in record management will
be an advantage.
DUTIES : Development and amendment of records management guidelines, procedures
and practices to support DOD record-keeping requirements. Identify and
review all current recordkeeping and records management procedures.
Continuous review of procedures. The management of Records Classification
Systems (ie DOD Correspondence File Plan, record retention schedules).
Administer clients' requests for amendments and additions to records
classification systems. Answer enquiries with the correct use of file references.
Execute all administrative tasks with the maintenance of the records
classification systems. Maintain and update the paper-based master copy of
the records classification systems by adding additions and amendments when
necessary. Ensure that the electronic version and the paper-based version of
the records classification systems are always synchronized. Knowledge of MS
Word, Excel and Power Point. Typing skills. Language proficiency in English
(written and verbal). Analytical and innovative thinking as well as problem
solving Skills. Excellent interpersonal Skills. Sound Organisational skills. High
level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good people skills.
Ability to do research and analyse documents and situations. Excellent record
management skills. A background as record management will be an
advantage.
ENQUIRIES : Maj K.L. Bosch Tel No: (012) 351 5045/5172
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Air Force College, Private Bag X1008, Thaba
Tshwane, 0143 or email to: saafcolhr@dod.mil.za or may be hand delivered at
Abraham Kriel Road, Thaba Tshwane, Centurion
POST 13/52 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: SAAFCOL/12/13/26/02
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : SA Air Force College, Pretoria
32
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special requirements
(Skills needed): Good communication (verbal/written) and Interpersonal skills.
Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Ensure the performance of high clerical tasks in Support of the Provisioning
Administration Officers at e.g. Logistic/Supply Support. Tasks will include the
preserving, storing and maintaining of certain military items, making
arrangements for the maintenance of stock by experts, keeping data registers
up to date iro stock received, issued and not issued. Render assistance during
stocktaking and assist with the securing and keeping of warehouse/stores neat.
Must do follow up actions on demands outstanding, assist with the updating of
provisioning parameters on all ICN’s, must assist with the scrutinising and
printing of all PA’s, must be able to do demand and purchasing as per PA’s,
assist in the disposal and safe guarding of stores, must give feedback of all
relevant stats required, determine future stock levels. Also responsible for
binning and cleaning of stores, issuing and receiving of stores, must evaluate
and determine requirements concerning the operational readiness of the Base
or any section thereof, must do stock taking of stores.
ENQUIRIES : Maj K.L. Bosch Tel No: (012) 351 5045/5172
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Air Force College, Private Bag X1008, Thaba
Tshwane, 0143 or email to: saafcolhr@dod.mil.za or may be hand delivered at
Abraham Kriel Road, Thaba Tshwane, Centurion
POST 13/53 : DRIVER OPERATOR REF NO: AFBWKLF/12/13/26/02 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226 – R200 523 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : AFB Waterkloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 11 (NQF Level 3) or equivalent. A valid driver’s license code C1 with a
minimum of three (3) years driving experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Good Interpersonal Relationship skills; good driving skills, Verbal and
Communication skills; Listening skills and able to follow or take orders precisely
and Time Management Skills.
DUTIES : Required to perform the following functions: Always track and check the
condition of the car, immediately report any defects to the supervisor, be able
to drive light and medium vehicle to transport passenger and other items.
provide administrative and messenger services, including collecting and
dispatching documents and any other item as directed. Complete all the
required and prescribed records in the logbook with regard to the vehicles and
goods handled. Maintain the vehicle and ensure its good condition. Always
adhere to prescripts as directed by the transport legislation. Be willing to work
irregular hours.
ENQUIRIES : Maj B. Lekgokgola/F Sgt L. Roos, Tel No: (012) 672 3055
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Waterkloof, PO. Box X1001, Lyttleton
0140 or email to afbwklfhr@dod.mil.za or may be hand delivered at Solomon
Mahlangu Drive (M10) 378 JR, Centurion
NOTE : Short-listed candidates will undergo a driving and competency test.
POST 13/54 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: AFBLBWG/12/13/26/02 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : AFB Langebaanweg, Langebaan.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Knowledge of a limited range of work procedures such as planning
and organizing, equipment use, food preparation, etc.
DUTIES : Rendering assistance with the preparation and serving of food/drinks in all its
forms by: Hygienically preparation (i.e. wash, cut and cook) and serving of
food. Preparing and serving tea, coffee and drinks. Supplying water on dining
tables. Keeping kitchen, dining hall and food storage areas clean and tidy.
Removing all kitchen waste. Packing supplies received in the food storage
areas. Washing and cleaning up after meals. Setting tables (including
decoration thereof). Waiting on tables. Ensure only authorized personnel have
access to kitchen and/or consume meals. Ensure serviceability of equipment
and report any defects or shortages. Apply a high standard of hygiene as well
as safety measures in work environment.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.L. Du Plessis/WO2 V.A. Faro Tel No: (022) 705 2515/2571
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Langebaanweg, Langebaan, 7375 or
maybe hand delivered at the Main Gate AFB Langebaanweg Military Base or
emailed to lbwgmove@dod.mil.za
33
POST 13/55 : STORE ASSISTANT REF NO: SAAFCOL/12/13/26/03 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : SA Air Force College, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Knowledge of a limited range of work procedures such as planning
and organizing, equipment use, food preparation, etc Good Communication
(verbal/written) and Interpersonal Skills, an eye for detail and basic numerical
skills.
DUTIES : Provide a productive service regarding store equipment. Must be familiar with
prescribed Fire Order (DD19) in store. Must be familiar with the use of fire
extinguishing apparatus. Ensure that all equipment or goods are received
correctly and in good condition. Must be able to complete register for
equipment received and issued. Execute all ad hoc store tasks as issued by
order.
ENQUIRIES : Maj K.L. Bosch Tel No: (012) 351 5045/5172
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Air Force College, Private Bag X1008, Thaba
Tshwane 0143 or email to: saafcolhr@dod.mil.za or may be hand delivered at
Abraham Kriel Road, Thaba Tshwane, Centurion.
POST 13/56 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: AFBHPST/12/13/26/02 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : AFB Hoedspruit, Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Good communication (verbal/written) and Interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of
machinery with low level of complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic hand
tools and cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines Ability to
perform routine tasks. Ability to work in team and individually.
DUTIES : Cultivate garden areas. Prepare soil for the planting of plants. Maintain flower
and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating, weeding and pruning. Mow lawns and
cut edges. Load and unload various articles and equipment needed on the
grounds. Irrigate lawns. Remove refuge from the terrain. Load refuge on the
truck for transportation to refuge dumps or burn refuge. Maintain neatness of
unit areas.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.M. Visagie /Capt. P. Ratheko Tel No: (015) 799 2924 or 2387
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Hoedspruit, Hoedspruit, 1380 or
emailed at Prince.Ratheko@dod.mil.za and maybe hand delivered at the main
Gate Golf 1 and Golf 8.
POST 13/57 : HOUSEHOLD AID REF NO: AFBLBWG/12/13/26/03 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : AFB Langebaanweg, Langebaan
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Communicate effectively.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. sweeping, vacuuming, window cleaning, dusting, polishing
furniture and floors). Clean ablution facilities. Maintain cleanliness in the
bungalow of students. Report any defects in the workplace to immediate
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.L. Du Plessis/WO2 V.A. Faro Tel No: (022) 705 2515/2571
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Langebaanweg, Langebaan, 7375 or
maybe hand delivered at the Main Gate AFB Langebaanweg Military Base or
emailed to lbwgmove@dod.mil.za
POST 13/58 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: AFBLBWG/12/13/26/04 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : AFB: Langebaanweg, Langebaan
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Good communication (verbal/written) and Interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of basic maintenance of
machinery with low level of complexity in operating it. Knowledge of basic hand
34
tools and cleaning equipment. Ability to operate cleaning machines Ability to
perform routine tasks. Ability to work in team and individually.
DUTIES : Cultivate garden areas. Prepare soil for the planting of plants. Maintain flower
and other beds by fertilizing, irrigating, weeding and pruning. Mow lawns and
cut edges. Load and unload various articles and equipment needed on the
grounds. Irrigate lawns. Remove refuge from the terrain. Load refuge on the
truck for transportation to refuge dumps or burn refuge. Maintain neatness of
unit areas.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.L. Du Plessis/WO2 V.A. Faro Tel No: (022) 705 2515/2571
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Langebaanweg, Langebaan 7375 or
maybe hand delivered at the Main Gate AFB Langebaanweg Military Base or
emailed to lbwgmove@dod.mil.za
POST 13/59 : CLEANER REF NO: AFBLBWG/12/13/26/05 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : AFB: Langebaanweg, Langebaan
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in English. Knowledge of
basic maintenance of machinery with low level of complexity in operating it.
Knowledge of basic hand tools and cleaning equipment. Ability to operate
cleaning machines. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability to work in team and
individually.
DUTIES : Perform cleaning related duties in offices and other facilities as determined by
Supervisor (i.e. sweeping, vacuuming, window cleaning, dusting, polishing
furniture and floors). Clean ablution facilities. Report any defects in the
workplace to immediate supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.L. Du Plessis/WO2 V.A. Faro Tel No: (022) 705 2515/2571
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Air Force Base Langebaanweg, Langebaan, 7375 or
maybe hand delivered at the Main Gate AFB Langebaanweg Military Base or
emailed to lbwgmove@dod.mil.za
35
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment. Zipped and
JPEG documents will not be accepted. indicate the correct job title and the
reference number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct
email address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will
be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/60 : PRINCIPAL PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 REF NO: HR 4/4/6/02
SALARY : R1 245 564 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : Masters’ degree qualification in Psychology. Three (3) years appropriate
experience as Psychologist after registration with HPCA as a
36
Counselling/Industrial Psychologist. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge:
Relevant ILO Conventions, Financial Management, Human Resource
Management, Recruitment and selection processes, Relevant government
strategies. Skills: Planning and Organizing, Verbal and written Communication,
Analytical, Computer literacy, Presentation, Interpersonal, Report-writing,
Leadership, Networking, Information Management.
DUTIES : Supervise employment counselling to assist workers to enter the labour
market. Provide technical support supervision of psychological assessment of
work-seekers in the Province. Supervise self-help employment counselling in
Labour Centres. Establish programmes for career counsellors in the Province.
Ensure professional record-keeping is done in the Province on employment
counselling work. Provide counselling services to the referred clients.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SM Lebogo Tel No: (015) 290 1662/Ms. TE Maluleke Tel No: (015) 290
1768/Mr. MI Makgobola Tel No: (015) 290 1723/Ms. JM Fope Tel No: (015) 290
1699/Ms. MJ Matlakala Tel No: (015) 290 1699/Ms. GJ Matlhakoane Tel No:
(015) 290 1665.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane Or Jobs-LP@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Polokwane
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Males, Indian
Females, White Males.
POST 13/61 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR CENTRE OPERATION REF NO: HR 4/4/6/01
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma (NQF 6)/ undergraduate Bachelor Degree (NQF
7) in Financial Management / Accounting / Human Resource Management/
Labour Relations / Social Sciences / Engineering Sciences / Public
Administration / Management / Business Administration/Management/
Operations Management / Project Management / Three years’ legal
qualification. Five years’ experience of which two at an Assistant Director level
and Three years’ functional experience in labour market operations/ service
delivery environment. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Public Financial
Management Act, Policies and Procedures, Public Service Regulations, Batho
Pele Principles, Service Delivery Improvement Plan. Skills: Management,
Computer, Presentation, Communication (both verbal and written),
Interpersonal, Conflict management, Leadership, Project management,
Diversity management, Change management, Monitoring and Evaluation.
DUTIES : Manage the service delivery objectives as per mandate of the Department of
Employment and Labour. Represent the Department in key stakeholder forums
including interdepartmental structure of government and municipalities
including those dictated by the District Development Model (DDM)
(Intermediate). Implement and manage service delivery improvement plan.
Manage all resources of the Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SM Lebogo Tel No: (015) 290 1662/Ms. TE Maluleke Tel No: (015) 290
1768/Mr. MI Makgobola Tel No: (015) 290 1723/Ms. JM Fope Tel No: (015) 290
1699/Ms. MJ Matlakala Tel No: (015) 290 1699/Ms. GJ Matlhakoane Tel No:
(015) 290 1665.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane Or Job-PLK@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Polokwane
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Males, Indian
Females, White Males.
POST 13/62 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RESEARCH MONITORING AND EVALUATION
REF NO: HR 4/4/6/03
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification in Economics/Statistics/Social Sciences
(sociology, Demography). Four (4) years functional experience in labour
market research field services. Valid driver’s licenses. Knowledge: Labour
legislation and relevant policies, Analytical methods, Batho Pele Principles,
Labour market dynamics, Research methodology, Project management. Skills:
Analytical, Communication, Interpersonal, Innovative, creative and leadership,
37
Management, planning organisation, Stress management, Team management,
Data analysis, Statistical software skills, Research, Monitoring and Evaluation.
DUTIES : Monitor and evaluation the impact of labour legislation. Monitor and conduct
the national and provincial research studies. Contribute and participate in the
development of Research Monitoring and evaluation (RME) agenda. Manage
all the resources of the Sub-Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SM Lebogo Tel No: (015) 290 1662/Ms. TE Maluleke Tel No: (015) 290
1768/Mr. MI Makgobola Tel No: (015) 290 1723/Ms. JM Fope Tel No: (015) 290
1699/Ms. MJ Matlakala Tel No: (015) 290 1699/Ms. GJ Matlhakoane Tel No:
(015) 290 1665.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or Jobs-LP@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Polokwane
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloured Males, Coloured Females, Indian Males,
Indian Females, White Males, White Females.
POST 13/63 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONTRIBUTIONS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/3/2ASDCM/UIF
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification in Accounting / Cost and Management Accounting
/ Public Finance Management at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Four (4)
years’ experience of which two (2) years; must be functional experience in
Finance environment and two years at a Supervisory level. Knowledge: Public
Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Public Financial
Management Act (PFMA). Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulation
(UIAR). Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Treasury
Regulations. Labour Relations Act (LRA). Employment Equity Act (EEA). Basic
Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Skills: Financial Management.
Analysis. Problem Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organising.
Communication (verbal and written). Computer Literacy. Report Writing.
Minutes writing.
DUTIES : Coordinate monthly revenue contributions reconciliations. Coordinate the
investigations and allocation of the unallocated contributions. Implement Audit
Management Action plans. Manage resources (Human, Financial, Equipment
/ Assets) in the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RJ Sibanyoni Tel No: (012) 337 1715
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF22@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Females, White Males, Females and Persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
POST 13/64 : SENIOR ACCOUNTS PAYABLE OFFICER: BENEFICIARY SERVICES REF
NO: HR 4/4/6/04
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) in Accounting/Finance. Two (2)
years functional experience in Accounts payable environment. Knowledge:
Department policies and procedures, Planning and organizing, Administration
procedures, Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Communication, Listening,
Computer literacy, Time Management, Numeracy, Interpersonal, Planning and
Organizing.
DUTIES : Provide support in the accounts payable process. Render accounting and
administrative support. Conduct reconciliation of accounts. Implement the daily
payment run. Supervise resources (Human, Finance, Equipment/Assets) in the
section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SM Lebogo Tel No: (015) 290 1662/Ms. TE Maluleke Tel No: (015) 290
1768/Mr. MI Makgobola Tel No: (015) 290 1723/Ms. JM Fope Tel No: (015) 290
1699/Ms. MJ Matlakala Tel No: (015) 290 1699/Ms. GJ Matlhakoane Tel No:
(015) 290 1665.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or UIFJobs-
LP@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Polokwane
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloured Males, Coloured Females, White Males, White
Females.
38
POST 13/65 : SENIOR LOCAL APPEALS COMPLAINTS OFFICER: BENEFICIARY
SERVICES REF NO: HR 4/4/6/05
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Business Administration/Management;
Public Administration/ Management/Social Science/Accounting/Finance/HRM
at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Two (2) years functional experience
in Client Services environment/Claims Processing environment of UIF or
Insurance claims. Knowledge: Department of Employment and Labour & UIF
Policies and Procedures, Operations System, Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA), Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Public
Service Regulation (PSR), Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Act (PSA),
Labour Relations Act. Skills: Interpersonal, Presentation, Listening,
Communication (verbal and written), Computer Literacy, Problem solving,
Planning and Organizing
DUTIES : Verify provision of secretariat functions for Local Appeal Board. Verify
processing of appeals. Supervise rendering of administrative support services
to the Regional Appeals Board. Supervise Resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SM Lebogo Tel No: (015) 290 1662/Ms. TE Maluleke Tel No: (015) 290
1768/Mr. MI Makgobola Tel No: (015) 290 1723/Ms. JM Fope Tel No: (015) 290
1699/Ms. MJ Matlakala Tel No: (015) 290 1699/Ms. GJ Matlhakoane Tel No:
(015) 290 1665.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or UIFJobs-
LP@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Polokwane
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloured Males, Coloured Females, White Males, White
Females.
POST 13/66 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: OPERATIONS (X50 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Jane Furse Ref No: HR4/4/6/06 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Burgersfort Satellite Office Ref No: HR4/4/6/07 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Lebowakgomo Ref No: HR4/4/6/08 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Lephalale Ref No: HR4/4/6/09 (X3 posts)
Labour Centre: Thabazimbi Satellite Office Ref No: HR4/4/6/10 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Makhado Ref No: HR4/4/6/11 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Musina Satellite Office Ref No: HR4/4/6/12 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Modimolle Ref No: HR4/4/6/13 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Warmbath Satellite Office Ref No: HR4/4/6/14 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mokopane Ref No: HR4/4/6/15 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Mookgopong Satellite Office Ref No: HR4/4/6/16 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Phalaborwa Ref No: HR4/4/6/17 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Hoedspruit Satellite Office Ref No: HR4/4/6/18 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Polokwane Ref No: HR4/4/6/19 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Mankweng Satellite Office Ref No: HR4/4/6/20 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Seshego Ref No: HR4/4/6/21 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Thohoyandou Ref No: HR4/4/6/22 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: Malamulela Ref No: HR4/4/6/23 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre, Tzaneen Ref No: HR4/4/6/24 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Groblersdal Ref No: HR4/4/6/25 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Business Administration/Management;
Public Administration/ Management/Operations/Accounting/Finance NQF
Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Valid Driver’s license. Two (2) years functional
experience in Client Services environment/Claims Processing environment in
operations or Insurance environment. Knowledge: Unemployment Insurance
Act and Regulations (UIA), Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act
(UICA), Department of Employment and Labour & UIF Policies and
Procedures, Operations System, Batho Pele Principles, Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA). Skills: Interpersonal, Presentation, Listening,
Communication (verbal and written), Computer Literacy, Problem solving,
Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Provide Unemployment Insurance services through interaction with customers.
Provide quality assurance and follow-up on Unemployment Insurance
39
applications. Administer the UI Claims and Processing Services. Supervise
Resources (Human, Financial, Equipment/Assets) in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SM Lebogo Tel No: (015) 290 1662/Ms. TE Maluleke Tel No: (015) 290
1768/Mr. MI Makgobola Tel No: (015) 290 1723/Ms. JM Fope Tel No: (015) 290
1699/Ms. MJ Matlakala Tel No: (015) 290 1699/Ms. GJ Matlhakoane Tel No:
(015) 290 1665.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane Or UIFJobs-
JF@labour.gov.za
for Jane Furse and Burgersfort, UIFJobs-LEB@labour.gov.za for
Lebowakgomo, UIFJobs-LEP@labour.gov.za for Lephalale and Thabazimbi,
UIFJobs-MAKH@labour.gov.za
for Makhado and Musina, UIFJobs-MOD@labour.gov.za
for Modimolle and Warmbath, UIFJobs-MOK@labour.gov.za
for Mokopane and Mookgopong, UIFJobs-PHAL@labour.gov.za
for Phalaborwa and Hoedspruit, UIFJobs-PLK@labour.gov.za
for Polokwane and Mankweng, UIFJobs-SESH@labour.gov.za
for Seshego, UIFJobs-THO@labour.gov.za
for Thohoyandou and Malamulela, UIFJobs-TZN@labour.gov.za
for Tzaneen, UIFJobs-GLD@labour.gov.za
for Groblersdal. For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human Resources
Management, Polokwane.
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloured Males, Coloured Females, White Males, White
Females.
POST 13/67 : EMPLOYMENT SERVICE PRACTITIONER 2 REF NO: HR 4/4/6/26
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Lephalale
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year qualification in Social Science/Public Administration. Valid
driver’s license. Knowledge: ILO Conventions, Social Plan Guidelines, Human
Resource Management, Financial Management. Skills: Planning and
organising, Communication, Computer, Analytical, Presentation, Interpersonal,
Report writing, Leadership, Networking.
DUTIES : Identify and process employability needs for job seekers. Network with
stakeholders to acquire placement opportunities. Process requests for labour
migration and advice on the availability of skills. Process applications for
registration of PEA’s and TEA’s. Supervise the administration of employer
services at the Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SM Lebogo Tel No: (015) 290 1662/Ms. TE Maluleke Tel No: (015) 290
1768/Mr. MI Makgobola Tel No: (015) 290 1723/Ms. JM Fope Tel No: (015) 290
1699/Ms. MJ Matlakala Tel No: (015) 290 1699/Ms. GJ Matlhakoane Tel No:
(015) 290 1665.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane Or Job-
LEPH@labour.gov.za.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Polokwane
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloured Males, Coloured Females, White Males, White
Females.
POST 13/68 : CHIEF PROVISIONING ADMIN CLERK REF NO: HR4/4/6/27
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year’s relevant tertiary qualification in Supply Chain Management/
Finance/ Public/ Business Administration. One (1) year functional experience
in Supply Chain or Finance & Provisioning Services. Knowledge: Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Skills: Supervision, Negotiating, Client
orientation and customer focus, Facilitation, Computer Literacy, Presentation,
Analytical, Communication.
DUTIES : Provide contract and tender management support to be in line with developed
relevant prescripts. Administer open and closed tender processes in
compliance with SCM policies and Treasury. Procure goods and services in
line with relevant prescripts in the Province. Provide Inventory Management
Support to ensure effectiveness and efficient in the Province. Manage all
resources of the Directorate. (Daily).
40
ENQUIRIES : Ms. SM Lebogo Tel No: (015) 290 1662/Ms. TE Maluleke Tel No: (015) 290
1768/Mr. MI Makgobola Tel No: (015) 290 1723/Ms. JM Fope Tel No: (015) 290
1699/Ms. MJ Matlakala Tel No: (015) 290 1699/Ms. GJ Matlhakoane Tel No:
(015) 290 1665.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane Or Jobs-LP@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Polokwane
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloured Males, Coloured Females, White Males, White
Females.
41
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/69 : DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE REF NO: FIM14/2026
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (an all-inclusive annual remuneration package). The
remuneration package includes a basic salary (70% of package), State’s
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund (13% of basic salary)
and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate Degree (NQF 7) in Environmental Law/ Legal/ Law or relevant
qualification recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in
relevant field at Middle/Senior Managerial level. Successful completion of the
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme prior to
appointment. Experience of the marine fisheries and aquaculture
environment/sector. Knowledge of the Criminal Procedure Act, Public Finance
Management Act, National Treasury Regulations, Marine Living Resources
Act, MLRA Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of the Government’s
policies and priorities for Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment and white
paper on the transformation of the public service. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment Skills: Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme
and Project Management, Financial Management, Change Management,
Knowledge Management and People Management and Empowerment. Ability
to work long hours voluntarily. Be able to gather and analyse information,
develop and apply policies, Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work
under extreme pressure and to work with difficult persons and to resolve
conflict. Must have a valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop a compliance monitoring framework and ensure effective
implementation thereof. Monitor the protection and enhance marine living
resources through inspections in line with the Marine Living Resources Act
(MLRA). Ensure that all vessels comply with all reporting procedures so that
there is a good account of their whereabouts from time of departure until
landing at dockside. Oversee the management of inspections to protect marine
assets and resources. Ensure the patrolling of the South African coastline as a
deterrence measure. Ensure species, catch limitations and permit conditions
are complied with. Initiate and draft section 28 notices in terms of the MLRA for
administrative sanctions against transgressing right and permit holders. Initiate
and formalize partnership with other government departments, municipalities
and NGOs that add value to the mandate. Manage projects in respect of work
that has been outsourced to outside organizations. Participate in various
internal consultative forums. Participate in consultative structure of other
government departments, municipal structures and traditional structures within
the areas of operation. Participate in various Regional Fisheries Management
Organisations (RFMO’s) on issues around the improvement of Monitoring,
Control and Surveillance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Cheslyn Liebenberg, Email: CELiebenberg@dffe.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : FIM14-2026@dffe.gov.za applications May be forwarded to the Director-
General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, Private Bag
X43490, Cape Town, 8000 or hand-delivered to: 63 Strand Street, Cape Town,
or can be emailed to the respective email address quoting the reference
number on the subject email.
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resources Management
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
42
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a successful completion
of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National
School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment. The course is available at
the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can
be obtained by following the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training
course/sms-pre-entry programme/. Furthermore, all shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Following the interview and the technical exercise, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. The person appointed to
this position will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of
performance agreement and employment contract. The Department reserves
the right not to make an appointment. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your
personal information which you provide to the DFFE to being processed by the
department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees, and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with the POPIA of
2013. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing
date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026
POST 13/70 : DIRECTOR: FISHERIES PROTECTION VESSELS REF NO: FIM15/2026
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (an all-inclusive annual remuneration package). The
remuneration package includes a basic salary (70% of package), State’s
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund (13% of basic salary)
and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate Degree (NQF 7) in Environmental Law/ Legal/ Law or relevant
qualification recognized by SAQA. A minimum of Five (5) years of experience
in Maritime Studies or relevant field at Middle / Senior Managerial level within
the related field. Successful completion of the Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme. Experience of the marine fisheries and
aquaculture environment/sector. Knowledge of the Criminal Procedure Act,
Public Finance Management Act, National Treasury Regulations, Marine Living
Resources Act, MLRA Regulations and Maritime Domain Awareness.
Knowledge and understanding of the Government’s policies and priorities for
Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment and white paper on the transformation
of the public service. Knowledge of SAMSA related legislation. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Skills: Strategic Capability and
Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Financial Management,
43
Change Management, Knowledge Management and People Management and
Empowerment. Ability to work long hours voluntarily. Good communication
skills verbal and written. Be able to gather and analyse information, develop
and apply policies, Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work under
extreme pressure and to work with difficult persons and to resolve conflict. Must
have a valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage budget in accordance with the MTEF provisions, for both the operation
and maintenance of the Fisheries Patrol Vessels fleet. Develop and evaluate
control systems and measures for monitoring the utilization of the vessels’
operating costs as per the provisions of the PFMA. Manage relevant contracts
for manning/ crewing, maintenance and technical services to the Fisheries
Patrol Vessels Fleet. Promote and enforce compliance to ensure sustainable
utilization of marine living resources. Provide support in the development and
enforcement of regional and international agreements. Engage and plan with
SADC and MCS partners. Initiate joint operations in the SADC region for joint
operations, patrols and information sharing. Participate in various Regional
Fisheries Management Organisations (RFMO’s) on issues around the
improvement of Monitoring, Control and Surveillance. Participate in policy
development as a sea-based directorate with various national stakeholders
pertaining to fisheries management. Develop and encourage cooperative
governance principles. Initiate and draft section 28 notices in terms of the
MLRA for administrative sanctions against transgressing right and permit
holders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Cheslyn Liebenberg, Email: CELiebenberg@dffe.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : FIM15-2026@dffe.gov.za applications may be forwarded to the Director-
General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, Private Bag
X43490, Cape Town, 8000 or hand-delivered to: 63 Strand Street, Cape Town,
or can be emailed to the respective email address quoting the reference
number on the subject email.
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resources Management
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a successful completion
of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National
School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment. The course is available at
the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can
be obtained by following the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training
course/sms-pre-entry programme/. Furthermore, all shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Following the interview and the technical exercise, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. The person appointed to
this position will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of
44
performance agreement and employment contract. The Department reserves
the right not to make an appointment. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your
personal information which you provide to the DFFE to being processed by the
department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees, and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with the POPIA of
2013. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing
date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/71 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OPERATIONS AND LOGISTICS REF NO: OC07/2026
SALARY : R896 436 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma /Degree in Shipping & Logistics/Maritime Studies/Operations
& Logistics or equivalent relevant qualification. 3 years and above relevant
experience of which three (3) of them should be at an entry/junior managerial
level (Assistant Director Level or equivalent) The incumbent must have
knowledge of Logistics management and business practices. Knowledge of
Maritime/Shipping Logistics including clearing and forwarding. Working
knowledge of customs rules relating to cargo. Ability to implement logistics
management systems and controls. Ability to develop, interpret and apply
policies, strategies and legislation. Knowledge of HR management practices,
legal issues, negotiations and dealing with conflict. Assist in career planning
and effective deployment of personnel. The following skills & competencies are
required; Policy development, computer literate, management and project
management, good interpersonal relations, Relationship Management,
Stakeholder engagement, Research, writing and presentation, change
management, knowledge management, service delivery innovation (SDI),
problem solving and analysis. People Management and Empowerment, Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Honesty. Ability to work long hours
voluntarily. Ability to gather and analyse information. Ability to develop and
apply policies. Ability to work individually and in team. Good interpersonal
relations skills. Creativity. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work with
difficult persons and to resolve conflict. Sense of responsibility and loyalty.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible to provide inputs to NRF/DSI with regards to
the logistics required by relevant principal investigators. Obtain all approved
research projects to ensure the necessary support is provided before each
voyage. Organise and facilitate planning meetings before departure. Receive
orders from bases and facilitate approvals in accordance to the available
budget. Ensure all supplies are procured and packed timeously. Ensure
effective and efficient warehouse management including clearing and
forwarding of cargo. Ensure that the Department meets the environmental
requirements. Manage and co-ordinate the recruitment process of expedition
members in collaboration with HCM. Ensure that the expedition members
receive the necessary training. Ensure effective operations of the base stations
for science support. Receive all the reports from the three research bases.
Convene meetings with management to discuss reports. Analyse reports and
give recommendations and compile feedback for the bases. Follow-up with the
key personnel about matters arising from the reports. Ensure assets are
managed responsibly according to the government asset management policy.
Ensure Southern Oceans and Antarctic activities are conducted safely and risk
managed. Draft policy documents outlining the operations and other aspects
related to the management of bases. Develop, review and benchmark policies
with other National Antarctic Programs. Consult relevant stakeholders on
related matters. Ensure the implementation of policies and procedures.
Develop a template for the relief voyage reports. Provide inputs to science and
logistic integration annually including updating of the SANAP website. Ensure
implementation of the collaboration agreement. Add support to management
of search and rescue operations in liaison with vessel management and
relevant stakeholders. Attend local and international meetings as and when
required to improve SANAP operations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Hlophe Tel No (021) 493 7067
45
APPLICATIONS : OC07-2026@dffe.gov.za Applications: Cape Town: Private Bag X4390, Cape
Town, 8000 or hand-deliver to No 63 Strand Street, Cape Town
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Following the interview and technical passement for all SMS posts, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. Persons appointed will be
subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement and
employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2026, 16:00. No late application will be accepted
POST 13/72 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (MECHANICAL) GRADE A REF
NO: OC06/2026
SALARY : R522 741 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Engineering or relevant qualification as recognized
by SAQA. Compulsory registration with the ECSA as an Engineering
technician. 6 years’ post qualification experience required. The incumbent must
have knowledge of the following; Mechanical Installations and principles HR
practice & procedures. Administrative procedures. Financial management.
Project management. Personnel management The incumbent must have the
following skills & competencies; Sound organising and planning skills; Good
communication skills, operate a computer, compiling performance reports,
Leadership, facilitation, creativity The following personal attributes are
required; honesty, ability to work long hours voluntarily, ability to gather and
46
analyse information, ability to develop and apply policies, ability to work
individually and in team, good interpersonal relations skills, creativity, ability to
work under pressure and ability to work with difficult persons and to resolve
conflict.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible to monitor and control the implementation of
the maintenance policy. Troubleshoot and repair problems on the Mechanical
equipment and facilities. Promote safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Implement standard operating procedures for the safe and
consistent operations of infrastructure. Monitor and control the quality
assurance of technical designs with specifications and make recommendations
for approval by the relevant authority. Participate in Relief voyage. Assuming
different roles during voyages as required. Invite potential participants to apply
for the expedition. Arrange Pre-voyage Planning meetings. Complete all
relevant documentation. Plan and coordinate relief voyages, which include:
meetings with all stakeholders, liaise with all orders, keep track with
appointments, issuing of permits, etc. Monitor and control the compliance of all
lifting and handling equipment including the certification of all cranes. Monitor
and control the proper and timely maintenance of Caterpillar vehicle fleet.
Monitor and control the optimal performance and timely maintenance of snow
mobiles. Ensure the availability of drivers and dozers for Antarctic operations.
Provide inputs into the budgeting process; Compile and submit reports and
submissions as required; Provide inputs to the technical/engineering
operational plan; Provide support in the development, implementation and
maintenance of databases. Interact with SCM as a Chief User Clerk to facilitate
the appointment of service providers to support the SANAP operations. Monitor
the performance of Contractors and Service Providers to ensure adherence to
SLA’s or contractual obligations. Continuous professional development to keep
up with new technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on
technical engineering technology to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering-related matters; Keep track with various
Scientific projects at the research bases, as well as ship-based research;
Research and propose new technologies to improve performance and
efficiencies
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Boshoff Tel No: (021) 493 7379
APPLICATIONS : OC06-2026@dffe.gov.za Applications: Cape Town: Private Bag X4390, Cape
Town, 8000 or hand-deliver to No 63 Strand Street, Cape Town
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
47
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Following the interview and technical passement for all SMS posts, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. Persons appointed will be
subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement and
employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2026, 16:00. No late application will be accepted
48
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) seeks to hire patriotic, professional, passionate and talented
individuals to form part of a new leadership team, equipped with the right skills to facilitate the
transformation of Home Affairs into a digital-first, world-class organisation. If you are committed to
delivering on the Medium-Term Development Plan’s priorities through digital transformation, ascribe to
the Department’s shared value set, have what it takes to deliver on the needs of DHA Clients with the
highest levels of dignity, integrity and innovation, and your credentials meet the requirements of any of
the following positions, kindly respond before the closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent
to the correct address specified at the bottom of the posts, on or before the
closing date, accompanied by a fully completed Application for Employment
Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number and job title, and a
comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy), job title, duties
performed and exit reason for each employment period to be considered, as
well as the details of at least two contactable employment references (as recent
as possible), regardless of online or manual submission. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. Shortlisted candidates will also be required to
submit a copy of their ID document, a valid driver’s license (if specified as a job
requirement), relevant educational qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic
Transcripts of completed qualifications, and Acting letters as directed.
Furthermore, applicants who possess (a) foreign qualification(s), are required
to submit the evaluated results of such qualifications, as received from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA); will be subjected to an interview,
various relevant tests and assessments, and employment suitability checks
(credit, criminal, citizenship, qualifications, and employment references
including verification of exit reasons, and conducting business with State).
Once appointed, serving of a prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a
security clearance appropriate to the post, will be required. Correspondence
between the Department and candidates will be limited to shortlisted
candidates, only. The DHA is a merit-based, equal opportunity and affirmative
action employer. In line its commitment to promoting representivity, in the filling
of entry-level positions preference may be given to locally based candidates
on grounds of affordability as well as to (unemployed) youth and the DHA’s
interns and learners who have successfully completed their respective skills
development programmes. In the filling of all posts, preference may be afforded
to persons with disabilities, and in respect of SMS-level posts, to women.
Persons falling in these categories and who meet the post requirements are
strongly encouraged to apply. The DHA complies with the Protection of
Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4 of 2013). Applicants’ personal
information will be used for recruitment purposes, retained where required for
audit, and safeguarded against unauthorised disclosure, except where legally
required. Submission of an application constitutes consent to such processing.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/73 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: AMENDMENTS AND RECTIFICATION REF NO:
HRMC 17/26/1
Sub -Directorate: Amendments and Rectifications
SALARY : R1 059 105 - R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12), (An all-inclusive salary
package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Business Management, Public Management,
Public Administration, or Operations Management at NQF 6 as recognized by
SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience in an Assistant Director (Junior
Management) level is required. Knowledge and understanding of all
49
departmental legislation and prescripts. Knowledge and understanding of
Public Service Prescripts and Legislations. A valid drivers’ license is an added
advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer
Focus. People Management and Empowerment. Financial Management.
Honesty and Integrity. Manpower forecasting and planning. Project
Management. Decision Making. Communication. Influencing and Networking.
Business report writing. Research Methodology. Interpersonal relations.
Problem Solving and Conflict Management. Presentation skills. Planning and
Organising Skill. Strong analytical skills. Facilitation skills. Negotiation skills.
Computer Literacy Skill. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Operational Management: Amendments and Rectifications Unit.
Manage and oversee operations within the Amendments and Rectifications
Unit to ensure the accuracy, integrity, and reliability of the National Population
Register (NPR). Ensure the effective administration of all matters relating to
the amendment and rectification of personal particulars. Coordinate and
manage service delivery between front-office and back-office environments.
Manage and implement document management processes, systems, and
policies in an effective and efficient manner. Facilitate digital transformation
initiatives and support the development of technical expertise within the unit.
Provide expert advice and guidance on amendment and rectification matters.
Manage and oversee projects related to document management and
rectification services. Establish and maintain productive relationships with
internal and external stakeholders. Monitor and report on progress against
approved operational plans. Escalate all irregularities and suspected
fraudulent activities to management or Counter Corruption and Security in
accordance with prescribed procedures, Policy, and Governance. Stakeholder
Engagement and Intergovernmental Relations. Risk, Compliance, and Quality
Assurance. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr J Modipa Tel No: (012) 406 4243
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/74 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: APPEALS (TEMPORARY RESIDENCE VISA) REF
NO: HRMC 17/26/2
Directorate: Appeals
SALARY : R1 059 105 - R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive salary
package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law, Public Management, Public
Administration, Policing, Criminology, Forensics or Criminal Justice at NQF 6
as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience in an Assistant Director
(Junior Management) level in Law, Analysis and interpretation of information is
required. Sound knowledge of the Immigration Act, 2002 (Act No.13 of 2002)
and Immigration Regulations. Knowledge of the Refugees Act and Refugee
Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of departmental legislation and
prescripts. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory Framework.
Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996. A valid
drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Required skills and competencies: Leadership skills. Honesty and
integrity. Report writing skills. Computer Literacy. Attention to detail. Policy
Interpretation and Implementation. Strong analytical skills. Diplomacy. Problem
Solving. Proven verbal and written communication skills. Sound Analytical
Skills. Ability to produce high quality work under pressure. Patriotic, Honesty,
Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage the effective processing of temporary residence visa
appeal applications. Manage the temporary residence visa appeals process.
Make sure that quality assurance and data quality strategies are implemented
in the processing of appeal applications. Manage information and monitor
statistics with regards to appeals. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders
regarding matters related to appeals. Make recommendations to management
50
on how to improve reporting. Quality assure and recommend appeal
applications to the next level. Ensure operational efficiency and service delivery
improvement within the directorate. Develop and implementation of policy and
procedure, directive acts and regulations. Implement effective risk and
compliance in line with the relevant legislative prescripts. Build and maintain
relationship with various stakeholders (Internal and External). Ensure effective
and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources within
the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and compliance with
regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr W Mamphoke Tel No: (012) 406 4247
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
imsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/75 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BIRTHS AND DEATHS REF NO: HRMC 17/26/3
Sub- Directorate: Births and Deaths
SALARY : R1 059 105 - R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive salary
package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Business Management, Public Management,
Public Administration, Operations Management or Customer Services
Management at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience
in an Assistant Director (Junior Management) level is required. Knowledge and
understanding of all departmental legislation and prescripts. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Service Prescripts and Legislations. A valid drivers’
license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours.
Required skills and competencies: Service Delivery Innovation. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment.
Financial Management. Honesty and Integrity. Manpower forecasting and
planning. Project Management. Decision Making. Communication. Influencing
and Networking. Business report writing. Research Methodology. Interpersonal
relations. Problem Solving and Conflict Management. Presentation skills.
Planning and Organising Skill. Strong analytical skills. Facilitation skills.
Negotiation skills. Computer Literacy Skill. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Operations Management: Births and Death Registration
Processes. Facilitate and oversee the processing of birth and death registration
applications across all service delivery platforms. Coordinate and ensure that
all registration processes comply with approved birth and death frameworks,
service standards, and operational procedures. Ensure the complete and
accurate capturing of records, including the identification and resolution of
empty, incomplete, or inconsistent fields originating from all service delivery
platforms. Coordinate and oversee the late registration of births and deaths,
ensuring strict adherence to legislative, regulatory, and procedural
requirements. Manage processes relating to birth registration status, including
the pre-modification and modification of birth registration records, in
accordance with prescribed standards. Coordinate and oversee automated
systems and digital platforms, including Command Centre operations, to
support efficient service delivery, system integrity, and data quality. Manage
and oversee projects related to document management and rectification
services. Ensure effective and efficient processing of designation of Funeral
Undertakers. Develop and maintain an accurate database for designated
Funeral Undertakers. Facilitate digital transformation initiatives and support the
development of technical expertise within the unit. Escalate all irregularities
and suspected fraudulent activities to management or Counter Corruption and
Security in accordance with prescribed procedures. Policy, Procedures, and
Governance. Stakeholder Engagement and Intergovernmental Relations. Risk,
Compliance, and Quality Assurance. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr J Modipa Tel No: (012) 406 4243
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
51
POST 13/76 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LINDELA HOLDING FACILITY REF NO: HRMC
17/26/4
Branch: Immigration Services
Directorate: Deportation
(This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply).
SALARY : R1 059 105 - R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive salary
package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Security (Policing and Defence
Studies), Public Management, Public Administration or International Relations
at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years' experience in an
Assistant Director (Junior Management) level in an operations management
(Joint Operations) or Law Enforcement (SAPS / Defence / Immigration)
environment is required. Experience in analysis and interpretation of
operational dynamics in the area of deportations. Knowledge of the Refugees
Act. Knowledge of the Immigration Act. Knowledge of the Public Service
Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) and Treasury regulations. Knowledge of the South African
Constitution. Knowledge and understanding of methods, practices, regulations
and acts applicable to administrative support services. A valid drivers’ license.
Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Leadership skills. Ability to prepare reports and conduct
presentations. Financial Management. Customer focus. Knowledge
management. Program and project management. Change management.
Influencing and Networking. Problem Solving. Proven verbal and written
communication skills. Presentation Skills. Sound Analytical Skills. Excellent
interpersonal skills. Ability to effectively develop unit work program. Ability to
produce high quality work under pressure. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage effective deportation operations in the department.
Coordinate the transfer of illegal foreigners to Lindela Holding Facility. Ensure
adherence to policy and legislation regarding immigration matters. Ensure
documentation management of the department and tracking the arrival of
deported illegal foreigners. Ensure effective screening and fingerprinting of
illegal foreigners at the holding facility. Coordinate information and monitor
statistics with regards to illegal foreigners held at Lindela Holding Facility.
Manage the Lindela Holding Facility operations. Oversee the provision of
humane accommodation by providing adequate space and catering services.
Manage the implementation of hygiene and ensure that illegal foreigners keep
his or her person, clothing, bedding and cell clean and tidy at the holding facility.
Oversee the provision of humane accommodation by providing adequate
space and catering services. Manage the implementation of hygiene and
ensure that illegal foreigners keep his or her person, clothing, bedding and cell
clean and tidy at the holding facility. Implement security measures to ensure a
secure and humane environment for the illegal foreigners at the holding facility.
Ensure compliance with policies, procedures, and prescripts. Determine
appropriate resources to achieve objectives. Monitor progress on execution of
operational plans. Ensure compliance with all audit requirements, quickly and
risk management frameworks, standards and procedures. Monitor and ensure
compliance with legislation, regulations and DHA policies and procedures. Plan
the production of annual reports in line with corporate strategy. Ensure
compliance to stakeholders within and external to the organization to ensure
accurate implementation. Implement compliance with all duties of the unit in
line with the applicable legislative framework. Establish and implement a
quality control, norms and standards framework. Participate in the
development of Standard Operating Procedure in the unit. Interpret and
implement Department circulars, policy and other communications that impact
on the operation of the s unit. Implement compliance in line with all relevant
Framework. Monitor and report on the utilization of equipment. Co-ordinate
memorandum of understanding, service level agreements and expenditure
review. Ensure capacity and development of staff. Enhance and maintain
employee motivation and cultivate a culture of performance management.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms B Kabinde Tel No: (012) 406 4239
52
Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
imsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/77 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MARRIAGES REF NO: HRMC 17/26/5
Sub-Directorate: Marriages
SALARY : R1 059 105 - R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive salary
package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Business Management, Public Management,
Public Administration, Operations Management or Customer Services
Management at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience
in an Assistant Director (Junior Management) level is required. Knowledge and
understanding of all departmental legislation and prescripts. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Service Prescripts and Legislations. A valid drivers’
license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours.
Required skills and competencies: Service Delivery Innovation. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment.
Financial Management. Honesty and Integrity. Manpower forecasting and
planning. Project Management. Decision Making. Communication. Influencing
and Networking. Business report writing. Research Methodology. Interpersonal
relations. Problem Solving and Conflict. Management. Presentation skills.
Planning and Organising Skill. Strong analytical skills. Facilitation skills.
Negotiation skills. Computer Literacy Skill. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Ensure the effective management of marriage records,
including the secure capture, storage, retrieval, and preservation of marriage
data. Coordinate and ensure that all marriage-related processes comply with
approved legislative frameworks, service standards, and operational
procedures. Ensure the complete and accurate capturing of marriage records,
including the identification and resolution of empty, incomplete, or inconsistent
data fields originating from local offices and service points. Coordinate and
oversee the registration and issuance of marriage certificates in accordance
with prescribed requirements. Manage processes relating to marriage
registration status, including the pre-modification and modification of marriage
registration records. Ensure the facilitation of alteration of sex/gender marker
applications linked to marriage records, in accordance with applicable
legislation and policy. Coordinate and oversee automated systems and digital
platforms, including Command Centre operations, to support efficient service
delivery and data integrity. Coordinate and manage the confirmation,
identification, and verification of biometric data associated with marriage
registrations. Manage and oversee projects related to document management
and rectification services within the Marriage Unit. Ensure the effective and
efficient processing of applications for the designation of Marriage Officers.
Develop, maintain, and regularly update an accurate and secure database of
designated Marriage Officers. Oversee the accurate updating of Marital Status.
Escalate all irregularities and suspected fraudulent activities to management
or Counter Corruption and Security in accordance with prescribed procedures
Policy, Procedures, and Governance. Stakeholder Engagement and
Intergovernmental Relations. Risk, Compliance, and Quality Assurance.
Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial
resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr W Mamphoke Tel No: (012) 406 4247
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/78 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ASSET CONTROL REF NO: HRMC 17/26/6
Directorate: Fleet and Asset Management
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Supply Chain Management, Financial
Accounting, Accounting Science, Financial Management, Auditing or Cost and
Management Accounting at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’
53
experience as an Assistant Director (Junior Management) level in an Asset
Management environment is required. Knowledge of Public Service
Regulations Act. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act.
Knowledge of the South African Constitution. Understanding of departmental
legislation as well as Human Resources legislation and prescripts. Knowledge
of the National Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of modified cash system
(MCS). Knowledge of BAS, LOGIS and BAUD systems. Knowledge of the
Supply Chain Management practices. Knowledge of Asset Management
Framework. Knowledge of the Standard Chart of Accounts (SCoA). A valid
drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Required skills and competencies: Capability and leadership. Service
Delivery Innovation. Stakeholder relations and customer focus. People
Management and Empowerment. Financial risk management. Asset Control
Management. Honesty and Integrity. Expenditure Management and
Administration. Programme and Project Management. Decision Making.
Communication skill. Budget administration. Business report writing. Initiating
action. Asset verification. Problem Solving and Analysis. Negotiation skills.
Presentation skills. Planning and Organising skill. Reconciliation skills.
Interpersonal skill. Computer Literacy Skill. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Coordinate effective asset management in the Department.
Coordinate and develop the asset and acquisition plans and strategies.
Coordinate, monitor and maintain the asset register integrity. Submit monthly
reconciliation of BAS. Update the current year addition register and ensure
completeness and accuracy on the LOGIS, BAS and FA System. Coordinate
and monitor the implementation of physical verification of assets in
Department. Coordinate and monitor the movement of assets, update the
movement, condition, location of moveable assets in the register. Investigate
instances of not verified assets lost, stolen or damaged assets and report them
to the Loss Control Committee for recovery. Coordinate and monitor recording
of write-offs, disposals and asset losses. Coordinate disposals of assets
including recording of income and related administration. Monitor and update
moveable lease register. Prepare the lease commitment and disclosure note.
Coordinate and establish norms, standards and processes for assets in the
Department. Manage successful system and process enhancements, updates
and amendments within the unit. Generate Return on Investment and other
prescribed and delegated reports for National Treasury and Business Owners.
Coordinate effective operations within the fixed asset management unit.
Develop and implementation of Policy and Procedure, Directive Acts and
Regulations. Establish, maintain and ensure a good working relationship with
the department and relevant stakeholders. Implement effective risk and
compliance in line with the relevant legislative prescripts. Ensure effective and
efficient management of human, physical and financial resources within the
Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Mnisi Tel No: (012) 406 4238
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
financerecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/79 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE REF NO: HRMC 17/26/7
Directorate: Operational Support (Civic Services)
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Business Management, Public Management
or Social Sciences at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’
experience in an Assistant Director (Junior Management) level in a Business
Intelligence (BI) environment is required. Knowledge of the South African
Constitution. Knowledge of Immigration Act, Refugee Act and Citizenship Act.
Sound knowledge and understanding of the Citizenship Act and Identification
Act. Knowledge and understanding of Civic Services Legislations and
Prescripts. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations Act. Knowledge of IT
governance frameworks (COBIT, ITIL, ISO/ IEC 20000) – essential for
managing IT services delivery, compliance and aligning IT services with
organisational objectives. Knowledge of Service Model, Operating Model,
Revenue Model and Delivery Model Design. Knowledge of Public Finance Act
54
(PFMA) and National Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of International
Immigration Practices. Knowledge of Government Programme of Action and
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). A valid drivers’ license is an
added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required
skills and competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Service Delivery
Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. People Management and
Empowerment. Financial reporting. Honesty and Integrity. Change
management. Programme and Project Management. Decision Making.
Communication skill. Knowledge management. Business continuity planning.
Financial Risk Management. Interpersonal skills. Problem Solving and Conflict
Management. Performance monitoring systems. Compliance management.
Information security risk principles. Presentation skills. Planning and
Organising Skill. Strong analytical skills. Facilitation skills. Negotiation skills.
Computer Literacy Skill. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage the coordination operations of Business Intelligence
(BI) for the Branch. Manage the collection, review and validation of customer
data and conduct audits. Manage the monitoring of analytics and metrics
results and implement of new data analysis methodologies. Manage the
reviewing of customer files to ensure integrity of data collection and utilization.
Manage and analyses the department process and report on analytics and
financials for a variety of projects. Ensure the interaction with various data
sources across the organization for tactical conclusions. Manage the auditing
of data quality and make recommendations for users. Facilitate integrate and
eradicate intuitions from large, disperse datasets and translate them into clear,
precise business conclusions. Facilitate and conduct risk analysis,
assessments and collect intelligence data. Ensure sustainable Business
intelligence solutions, automation and data visualization. Manage the
translation of business requirements into technological specifications. Manage
the coordination, integration, and extraction of data from data depositories
across the organization. Manage the designing of codes for specifications of
physical, logical, and end user data, dashboards, and tools. Ensure the
implementation of data generator and ensure compliance to all enterprise data
model according to data standards. Provide expert advice on developing and
aligning branch strategies with DHA’s overall strategic position. Assist in
creating long, medium-, and short-term business strategies and performance
plans. Review government strategies and directives to assess impact on
branch operations. Consolidate inputs from directorates for strategic planning
and ensure quality control. Develop and implementation of policies and
procedures, directives, acts and regulations. Establish, maintain and ensure a
good working relationship with the department and relevant stakeholders.
Implement effective risk and compliance in line with the relevant legislative
prescripts. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr W Mamphoke Tel No: (012) 406 4247
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/80 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DETECTION REF NO: HRMC 17/26/8
Chief Directorate: Prevention and Analysis
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Forensic Audit, Internal Audit, Law, or Data
Analytics at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience in an
Assistant Director (Junior Management) level in an Investigations environment,
fraud detection, auditing, data analysis or anti-corruption environment is
required. Knowledge of the Departmental Legislations and Prescripts.
Knowledge of the Departmental Legislations and Prescripts. Knowledge of the
GITO Framework, standard and guidelines. Knowledge of the Public Service
Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act.
Knowledge of E-Government Imperatives. Knowledge of State Information
Technology Act (SITA). Knowledge of Project Management processes and
procedures. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to
travel and work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Strategic
55
capability and leadership. Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and
Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment. Financial
management. Knowledge management. Honesty and Integrity. Change
management. Programme and Project Management. Decision Making.
Communication skill. Knowledge management. High ethical standards and
integrity. Analytical and critical thinking. Attention to detail. Confidentiality and
discretion. Strong communication and reporting-writing skills. Ability to work
independently and under pressure. Business report writing. Influencing and
networking. Problem Solving and Analysis. Communication. Conflict
Management and Negotiation skills. Critical thinking. Advanced MS excel skills.
Analytical capabilities to interpret fraud data and identify corruption trends.
Ability to integrate data from multiple sources and map end to end processes.
Data analysis and trend identification. Expertise in data visualisation and
dashboarding. Risk analysis and profiling. Knowledge of government systems
and processes. Presentation skills. Planning and Organising skills.
Interpersonal skills. Technical skills. Document management skills. Excellent
communication and stakeholder engagement. Computer Literacy skills.
Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage and ensure detection and analysis of corruption
vulnerabilities and irregularities within DHA business processes. Collect,
cleanse and analyse data from multiple systems including sourcing of
information from investigated cases to strengthen business process
evaluations. Analyse business processes, procedures and systems to identify
vulnerabilities, gaps and control weaknesses that may enable fraud and
corruption. Conduct data-driven detection reviews to identify anomalies,
unusual trends, deviations from the norm including non-compliance with
policies and legislation. Contribute and manage the development and updating
of DHA fraud and corruption legislative frameworks. Contribute and manage
the development and updating of the DHA fraud and corruption risk profile.
Analyze trends and identify various modus operandi to identify red flags
relating to business processes. Conduct and participate in business process
reviews. Map end to end processes to identify risk areas. Assess adequacy
and the effectiveness of controls. Develop risk indicators and detection models.
Produce analytical reports, dashboards and visualisations. Support
investigative units with evidence-based detection insights. Benchmark
processes against best practices. Compile evidence-based reports with
practical recommendations. Develop risk mitigation strategies. Contribute to
audit and management reports. Maintain records of detection activities.
Manage the collaboration and coordination of detection support to
Investigation, Vetting and Analysis units. Ensure continuous internal and
external stakeholder engagements and collaborations. Ensure effective risk
and compliance with regulatory requirements. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr B Mathatho Tel No: (012) 406 4250
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/81 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INVESTIGATIONS REF NO: HRMC 17/26/9
Chief Directorate: Investigations
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law, Criminal Justice, Policing, Forensics,
Public Management or Public Administration at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA.
Three (3) Years’ experience in an Assistant Director (Junior Management) level
in an Investigations environment is required. Knowledge of public security,
Including the Minimum Information Security Standards Act (MISS). Knowledge
of investigation methodology. Knowledge of asset protection operations.
Knowledge of the Departmental Legislations and Prescripts. Knowledge of the
Departmental Legislations and Prescripts. Knowledge of the GITO Framework,
standard and guidelines. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory
Framework. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of
E-Government Imperatives. Knowledge of State Information Technology Act
(SITA). Knowledge of Project Management processes and procedures. A valid
56
drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Required skills and competencies: Strategic capability and leadership.
Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. People
Management and Empowerment. Financial management. Knowledge
management. Honesty and Integrity. Change management. Programme and
Project Management. Decision Making. Communication skill. Knowledge
management. Business report writing. Influencing and networking. Problem
Solving and Analysis. Communication. Negotiation skills Dealing with
Pressures and Setbacks. Presentation skills. Planning and Organising skill.
Interpersonal skill. Technical skills: Commercial Skills. Document management
skills. Excellent communication and stakeholder engagement. Computer
Literacy Skill. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Coordinate investigations operation and implementation
according to the required security standards. Coordinate and implement of
various investigations functions and services. Coordinate information and
monitor statistics with regards to investigations. Coordinate and support all
aspects of the investigation to practice and illegal practice complaints (and
enquiries). Undertake order risk assessments in individual cases and monitor
the conditions of practice. Coordinate and monitor investigations functions and
proactively report and implement safety measures. Review quality
management reports and take corrective action where required. Conduct
investigations often oversee financial fraud investigations. Coordinate and
monitor quality and accuracy of output delivery by implementing periodic
sampling and other tools. Coordinate the development of a security
investigations security strategy for the department. Coordinate and implement
the investigation processes of special cases. Liaise with Office of the Auditor
General, SAPS, NIA and SITA on finance investigations. Coordinate and
ensure service delivery improvements within unit. Establish, maintain and
ensure a good working relationship with the department and relevant
stakeholders. Ensure effective risk and compliance management within the
external liaison unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best
practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Raziya Tel No: (012) 406 4155
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/82 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PERSONNEL REMUNERATION REF NO: HRMC
17/26/10
Directorate: Expenditure Management
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Financial Management, BCom Accounting,
or Management Accounting at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA is required.
Three (3) Years’ experience in an Assistant Director (Junior Management) level
in Personnel remuneration within an Expenditure Management environment is
required. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations Act. Knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of the South African Constitution.
Understanding of departmental legislation as well as Human Resources
legislation and prescripts. Knowledge of the National Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of the expenditure management process and related activities.
Knowledge of the Supply Chain Management framework. Knowledge of the
Standard Chart of Accounts (SCoA). A valid drivers’ license is an added
advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Service delivery innovation.
Client orientation and customer focus. People management and
empowerment. Financial management. Honesty and integrity. Programme and
project management. Change management. Communication. Knowledge
management. Decision making. Budget planning and cost control. Financial
reporting. Business Report Writing. Influencing and Networking. Problem
solving and analysis. Presentation Skills. Interpersonal Skills. Communication
Skills. Planning and Organising Skills. Computer literacy Skills. Decision
Making Skills. Negotiation Skills. Numerical skills. Patriotism, Honesty and
Integrity.
57
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Ensure and monitor the personnel remuneration processes and
procedures in the Department. Ensure that expenditure patterns and any
related disputes are managed in accordance with established financial
standards and regulations. Manage and enforce measures to prevent
unauthorized, wasteful, and fruitless expenditure, ensuring compliance with
financial governance frameworks. Coordinate and evaluate financial data
including revenue streams and cash flow to ensure all departmental operations
remain within the allocated budget. Supervise the accurate and timely
processing of invoice payments through the accounting system, ensuring
adherence to payment protocols. Manage payroll and non-payroll
compensation payments, including advances and claims, through the BAS
system, ensuring accuracy and compliance. Ensure timely and accurate
reconciliation of financial statements and reports, identifying and resolving
discrepancies. Track expenditure trends, identify issues, and correct erroneous
allocations to maintain financial integrity and alignment with budgetary plans.
Provide support and oversight to the Expenditure Management unit, ensuring
proper payment processes, expenditure procedures, and internal control
systems are effectively implemented. Develop and implementation of policy
and procedure, directive acts and regulations. Establish, maintain and ensure
a good working relationship with the department and relevant stakeholders.
Implement effective risk and compliance in line with the relevant legislative
prescripts. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Mnisi Tel No: (012) 406 4238
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
financerecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/83 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SUPPLIER PAYMENT REF NO: HRMC 17/26/11
Directorate: Expenditure Management
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Financial Management, BCom Accounting,
Cost Accounting or Public Finance at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA is
required. Three (3) Years’ experience in an Assistant Director (Junior
Management) level in Financial Management within an Expenditure
Management environment is required. Knowledge of the Public Service
Regulations Act. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act.
Knowledge of the South African Constitution. Understanding of departmental
legislation as well as Human Resources legislation and prescripts. Knowledge
of the National Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the expenditure
management process and related activities. Knowledge of the Supply Chain
Management framework. Knowledge of the Standard Chart of Accounts
(SCoA). A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel
and work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Service delivery
innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. People management and
empowerment. Financial management. Honesty and integrity. Project
management. Communication. Knowledge management. Decision making.
Budget planning and cost control. Financial reporting. Business Report Writing.
Influencing and Networking. Problem solving and analysis. Conflict
Management. Risk Management and Fraud Prevention. Presentation skills.
Interpersonal Skills. Communication skills. Planning and Organising skills.
Computer literacy skills. Decision Making Skills. Negotiation Skills. Numerical
skills. Accounting skills. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Ensure timeous and accurate payments to all stakeholders.
Ensure that all payments due to creditors are settled within 30 days from receipt
of invoice. Ensure that all payments are allocated to the correct responsibility,
objective, and item according to the Standard Chart of Accounts. Ensure that
all verifiable source documents are attached to payments to maintain a
complete audit trail. Perform monthly creditors reconciliation for regular sundry
payments. Ensure adherence to year-end closure procedures. Ensure
compliance with limitations attached to approved financial delegations.
Manage the financial controls and reporting. Develop and implementation of
58
policy and procedure, directive acts and regulations. Establish, maintain and
ensure a good working relationship with the department and relevant
stakeholders. Implement effective risk and compliance in line with the relevant
legislative prescripts. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best
practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr B Mathatho Tel No: (012) 406 4250
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
financerecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/84 : SENIOR ANALYST REF NO: HRMC 17/26/12
Chief Directorate: Prevention and Analysis
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Computer Science, Data Science, BSc
Information Technology, or Statistics, at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three
(3) Years’ experience in an Assistant Director (Junior Management) level in IT
audit, Forensic audit, data analysis using Power BI/SQL/Arbutus and /or other
related analytical tools preferably within fraud, corruption, risk, audit or law
enforcement environment is required. Experience working with large datasets
and case-based information. Knowledge of the Departmental Legislations and
Prescripts. Knowledge of the GITO Frameworks, standards and guidelines.
Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of E-Government Imperatives.
Knowledge of State Information Technology Act (SITA). Knowledge of Project
Management processes and procedures. A valid drivers’ license is an added
advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Decision making. Client
orientation and customer focus. Financial Management. Knowledge
management. Program and project management. Change management. High
ethical standards and integrity. Analytical and critical thinking. Attention to
detail. Confidentiality. and discretion. Strong communication and report-writing
skills. Ability to work independently and under pressure. Business Report
Writing. Problem Solving and Analysis. Influencing and Networking. Critical
thinking. Advanced MS excel skills. Analytical capabilities to interpret fraud
data and identify corruption trends. Ability to integrate data from multiple
sources and ensure data quality. Data analysis and interpretation. Statistical
analysis and trend identification. Expertise in data visualisation and
dashboarding. Risk analysis and profiling. Knowledge of government systems
and processes. Presentation skills. Problem solving and analysis. Business
report writing. Interpersonal skills. Technical skills. Computer literacy.
Document management skills. Excellent communication and stakeholder
engagement. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Coordinate and manage the collection, analysis and
interpretation of information and statistical data. Collect, collate, clean, and
manage fraud and corruption data from multiple sources, including case
management systems, tip-off platforms, audits, and operational databases.
Ensure data integrity, accuracy, and confidentiality in line with departmental
policies and legislation. Maintain structured datasets to support analysis,
reporting, and investigations. Analyse reported allegations to identify trends,
patterns, and anomalies related to fraud and corruption. Conduct risk profiling
of offices, processes, systems, and officials. Identify repeat incidents, high-risk
areas, and emerging modus operandi. Perform root cause analysis to
determine systemic weaknesses and control failures. Develop and maintain
dashboards, statistical reports, and visualization for management, EXCO, and
oversight bodies. Prepare quarterly, annual, and ad-hoc analytical and trend
analysis reports in support of performance reporting, audit engagements, risk
management and strategic planning. Compile reports and presentations with
findings and recommendations on identified corruption patterns to
stakeholders. Ensure alignment of data outputs with performance indicators
and audit methodologies. Develop and update the risk profile on existing
modus operandi to proactively identify irregularities. Pro-actively identify
suspicious officials and high-risk occupational groups. Manage the
collaboration and coordination of analytical support to Investigation, Vetting
59
and Prevention units. Ensure continuous internal and external stakeholder
engagements and collaborations. Ensure effective risk and compliance with
regulatory requirements. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best
practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Raziya Tel No: (012) 406 4155
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/85 : SPECIALIST DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: HRMC 17/26/13 (X2
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Application Management
This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply.
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Computer Science or Information Technology
at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ technical
experience in DB2 database administration is required. Functional Experience
in administering Microsoft SQL database, DB2 and Oracle database.
Experience in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting
Services (SSRS) and SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS). Experience in
ETL (Extra-Transform-Load) development / data integration. Experience in
SQL Server Clustering and HA technologies including mirroring, log shipping,
failover cluster and various replication technologies would be an advantage.
Experience participating in a team that is using Agile methodologies and tools.
Sound understanding of application development, maintenance and support.
Sound knowledge and application of the GITO Requirements and Frameworks.
Knowledge of the E government policy framework consultation paper
developed by GITO. Sound knowledge of the National Strategic Intelligence
Act. Knowledge of other database like DB2, MySQL and Oracle. Sound
knowledge of programming languages and databases. Understanding of
project management processes. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage.
Willingness to travel and work extended hours. On-call may be required.
Required skills and competencies: Capability and Leadership. Client
orientation. Accountability. Sound persuading and influencing. People
Management. Strong planning and organising. Business Continuity. Excellent
communication skills including communicating technical issues to non-
technical audiences. Project Management. Problem solving and Analysis.
Service delivery innovation. Ability to translate technology language into
English. Expenditure Management. Ability to work independently and
collaboratively in a team environment. Conflict Management and resolution.
Ability to meet deadlines. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Coordinate general Database Analysis in the Department.
Coordinate database analysis and implementation thereof. Coordinate and
monitor the performance tuning, capacity planning, monitoring critical events
and documentation. Create detailed documentation including diagrams of
database infrastructure. Create complex query definitions that allow adequate
data flow and criticality in line with the relevant business requirements.
Coordinate and communicate with all stakeholders (internal teams and clients)
on matters related to Databases. Design and develop capacity planning of
database infrastructure in conjunction with the PMO and Strategic IS Alignment
units. Coordinate and transfer of data from the existing system to the new
platform during technology refresh. Plan and monitor database infrastructure
for the DHA’s dashboard needs. Coordinate and monitor the database
administration processes and procedures. Coordinate, build and supports
enterprise-wide databases. Coordinate and execute databases for new
applications throughout the Department. Ensure effective Governance and
Compliance. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical
and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices
and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms T Rakgoale Tel No: (012) 406 2808
60
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
isrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/86 : SPECIALIST: ENTERPRISE ARCHITECT REF NO: HRMC 17/26/14 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Enterprise Architecture
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology, Computer Science,
Computer Engineering, Information Communication Technology or Information
Systems at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ technical
experience in Enterprise Architecture, Solution Architecture or Systems
Architecture, with demonstrated hands-on involvement in the design and
implementation of architecture solutions. Knowledge and understanding of
relevant Legislation, Policies and prescripts governing public administration
and information systems. Knowledge of the following Acts and frameworks:
Intelligence Act, Criminal Procedure Act, Police Act, Anti-Corruption
Legislation, Labour Relations Act (LRA), Basic Conditions of Employment Act
(BCEA), Public Service Act (PSA), Public Finance Management Act (PFMA)
and Treasury Regulations and National Strategic Intelligence Act. Knowledge
of policy development processes and government protocol. Knowledge of
different development and database tools, techniques and environments to
develop and deliver quality applications and documentations. Knowledge in
Enterprise Architecture and IS Governance environment. Knowledge of the
GITO Frameworks and policies. Knowledge of the State Information
Technology Agency (SITA) Act 88 of 1998. Knowledge of Minimum Information
Security Standard (MISS) and Minimum Interoperability Standard (MIOS).
Knowledge of Government Wide Enterprise Architecture Framework
(GWEAF). Knowledge of the Open Group Architecture Framework (TOGAF).
Knowledge of Corporate Governance of ICT (CGICT) Policy Framework. A
valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work
extended hours. On-call may be required. Required skills and competencies:
Strategic Capability and Leadership. Execution. Business Continuity. Time
Management. Conflict Management and Resolution. Service Delivery
Innovation. People Management. Project Management. Expenditure
Management. Problem solving and Analysis. Change Management and
Adaptability. Business Analysis. Data analysis. Business Report Writing.
Stakeholder Relations and Customer Focus. Influencing and Networking.
Accountability. Time Management. Critical Thinking. Ability to translate
Technical Language into English. Attention to detail. Presentation skills.
Planning and Organising skills. Interpersonal skill. Computer literacy. Decision
making. Communication skill. Enterprise architectural skills. Research skills.
Facilitation skills. Modelling skills. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Implement and Maintain Enterprise Architecture. Implement
approved Enterprise Architecture across all architecture domains (Business,
Information, Application, Technology and Security). Develop, update and
maintain current-state, target-state and transition architectures. Produce and
maintain architecture diagrams, models, standards and artefacts in line with
GWEAF and TOGAF. Execute architecture gap analyses and implement
approved remediation actions. Ensure practical application of Enterprise
Architecture principles in all ICT solutions and systems. Implement architecture
standards to reduce duplication, improve reuse and promote system
interoperability. Maintain an enterprise architecture repository and ensure
artefacts are current and accurate. Embed Enterprise Architecture into the
System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) by actively participating in solution
design, build, testing and deployment phases to ensure architecture
compliance from initiation to implementation. Review, approve and enforce
solution and system architecture designs prior to implementation and provide
corrective guidance where deviations from approved architecture standards
are identified. Support and guide project and technical teams during
implementation by resolving architecture-related technical issues and ensuring
alignment with approved integration, security and technology standards.
Monitor implemented systems post-deployment to assess architecture
61
effectiveness, identify improvement opportunities and implement corrective or
optimisation actions where required. Conduct Architecture Compliance and
Solution Implementation Support. Ensure operational efficient and service
delivery improvement in the Department. Establish, maintain and ensure a
good working relationship with the department and relevant stakeholders.
Implement effective risk and compliance in line with the relevant legislative
prescripts. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms T Rakgoale Tel No: (012) 406 2808
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
isrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/87 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY SYSTEMS REF NO: HRMC 17/26/15
Branch: Counter Corruption and Security Services
This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply.
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Electronic and Computer Engineering,
Electrical and Electronics Engineering or Electrical Engineering at NQF level 6
as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience in an Assistant Director
(Junior Management) level in an electronic security systems environment is
required. Knowledge and understanding of applying GITO requirements and
Frameworks. Knowledge of the e-Governance Policy Framework consultation
paper developed by GITO. Knowledge of the State Information Technology
Agency Act, 88 of 1998 and Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS)
and Minimum Physical Security Standard (MPSS). Knowledge of Public
Finance Management Act. Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public service and
Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government Structures.
Knowledge of electronic system security deployment and maintenance (e.g
hubs and monitors). A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work
extended hours. Management competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership. People Management and empowerment. Service delivery
innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. Financial Management.
Program and project management. Excellent written and verbal
communication skills. Sound decision-making, and change management skills.
Ability to instill appropriate processes and systems, as well as enabling
technology, to support the Department in efficiently and effectively managing
the required work. Support digital transformation. Computer literacy. Patriotic,
Honesty, Integrity and Accountability. Required skills and competencies:
Problem solving and analysis. Report writing and presentation skills.
Negotiation skills. Information Infrastructure Architecture. Data management
systems. Data streamlining and management. Data systems evaluation. Data
design and analysis.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Identify most suitable security system technology in support of
the security objectives. Ensure that servers and IT related equipment and
hardware as tools of trade within the Department, are properly protected.
Ensure the introduction of Environmental Monitoring Systems (EMS) in all DHA
server rooms. Effective management and maintenance of security technology
and systems. Provide advice and guidance on security technology and
systems. Ensure that part of the risk analysis in DHA, facilities include the
server room areas. Ensure biometric access in all DHA server rooms, cash
offices, control rooms (where applicable) and high-risk areas such as face
value storerooms. Repair, prepare program and maintain security systems in
the Department, e.g. CCTV. Assemble electronic and security equipment
devices which may include access control and Close Circuit Television (CCTV)
for effective monitoring of threats and intrusions. Facilitate stakeholder
engagement and collaboration and represent the Directorate at various forums.
Ensure the effective implementation of operational objectives and innovations
(digital transformation, records- and document management solutions, process
improvements and information management and analysis), to enhance service
delivery. Implement governance processes, frameworks and procedures.
62
Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial
resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr R Mohlaka Tel No: (012) 406 4246
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/88 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DUPLICATES REF NO: HRMC 17/26/16
SALARY : R582 444 - R686 091 per annum (Level 10), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane, Directorate: Application Processing
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management, Public
Management, Administration or Business Management, at NQF 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience as a Supervisor in
operations in a client or customer services environment is required. Extensive
knowledge of the Identification Act, South African Citizenship Act, 1995.
Extensive knowledge of the South African Passport and Travel Documents Act,
1994. Understanding of the Immigration Act and Refugee Act. Knowledge of
migration patterns and population movement within South Africa.
Understanding of departmental legislation and Human Resources prescripts,
LRA, BCEA. Knowledge of the South African Constitution and Public Service
Regulations Act. Comprehensive understanding of legislation, policies, and
prescripts governing public administration. Understanding of the Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of
policy development and government protocol. A valid drivers’ license is an
added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required
skills and competencies: Management Capability and Leadership Execution.
Planning and Operations Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment.
Financial Management. Honesty and Integrity. Programme and Project
Management. Change Management. Communication. Knowledge
Management. Problem Solving and Analysis. Business Report Writing.
Influencing and Networking. Planning and Organising. Accountability. Data
Analysis. Policy Analysis and Interpretation. Process Analysis and
Improvement. Attention to Detail. Conflict Resolution and Management.
Corruption Measures and Principles. Presentation skills. Interpersonal skills.
Communication skills. Planning and Organising skills. Computer and digital
literacy skills. Decision Making skills. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Administer the allocation, cancellation, deletion and reactivation
of Identity Numbers in the National Population Register. Supervise the
investigation and approval of duplicate cases. Monitor the laying of the file is
correct, ensure that the correct records are attached. Quality check and ensure
correctness of submitted forms for amendment of information on the NPR.
Verify the correctness of information on the confirmation letter with the
information on NPR as well as signing the letters as on behalf (pp) of DG.
Monitor records/documentation according to DHA policies and requirements.
Adhere to business process management when executing daily operations on
the unit. Build and maintain relationship with various stakeholders (Internal and
External). Develop, monitor and implementation of policy and procedures,
directives, acts and regulations. Ensure effective risk and compliance
management. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical
and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices
and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms R Masemola Tel No: (012) 406 4156
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/89 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: AUDIT OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT REF NO:
HRMC 17/26/17
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
63
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Internal Audit, Accounting or Commerce at
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience in internal
audit operational coordination, in an internal auditing environment is required.
Knowledge of the Protection of information Act 84 of 1982 and the Promotion
of Access to information Act 2 of 2000 and Minimum Information Security
Standards. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations Act. Knowledge of
International Internal Audit Standards. Knowledge of the South African
Constitution. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act and National
Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of IIA Standards (Global Internal Audit
Standards). Knowledge of King IV report and governance principles. A valid
drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Required skills and competencies: Service Delivery Innovation. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Financial Administration. Business Report
Writing. Honesty and Integrity. Project Management. Business Continuity.
Decision Making. Attention to detail. Influencing and networking. Conflict
management and resolution. Confidentiality. Ability to work independently and
under pressure, managing multiple cases and deadlines. Presentation skills.
Communication skills. Planning and Organising skills. Computer literacy.
Planning and Organising skills. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Maintain the annual audit schedule/coverage tracker and update
milestone (planning, fieldwork, reporting, closure). Provide professional,
technical, and methodological guidance to Internal Audit stuff to ensure uniform
application of Global Internal Audit Standards, PFMA, Treasury Regulations
and relevant prescripts. Provide professional support to Audit Committee to
ensure development of the annual program, annual declarations, payment of
AC and Facilitation of AC evaluations. Communicate changes in internal audit
standards, legislation, and best practices to internal stakeholders. Ensure all
operational activities align with the Internal Audit methodology, departmental
SOPs, and IIA Standards. Standards. Apply checklists to verify compliance at
each stage of the engagement Facilitate the annually review, update, and
maintain the Internal Audit Charter, Audit Committee Charter, Internal Audit
Methodology, and Combined Assurance Framework. Benchmark internal audit
practices against leading public and private sector best practices. Identify and
introduce emerging trends, innovative audit techniques, and technology-
enabled audit approaches. Coordinate and facilitate the activities of the
Combined Assurance Forum. Promote collaboration, information sharing, and
alignment among internal and external assurance providers. Prepare meeting
packs, agendas, and attendance registers for the Chief Directorate: Internal
Audit Management, Combined Assurance Forum and Audit Committee
meetings. Capture key discussion points, agreements, and action items.
Contribute to the preparation of the Internal Audit Services. Business Plan and
annual operational plans. Coordinate and compile quarterly performance
reports in line with departmental and Treasury reporting requirements. Ensure
that all engagement files are maintained (electronic and physical) with proper
indexing and referencing. Prepare engagement files for internal QA review and
external quality assessments. Implement Public Service governance
processes, framework and procedures. Monitor and ensure compliance with
legislation, regulations and DHA policies and procedures. Support the
development of policy development by providing inputs and ensure the
effective implementation thereof. Review and ensure effective workflow and
capacity planning. Ensure the effective and uniform implementation of
Standard Operating Procedures. Monitor and ensure compliance with
legislation, regulation, DHA policies and procedures within the directorate.
Ensure compliance with all audit requirements within the directorate. Monitor
quality, risk, standards as in required. Report on all risk and financial indicators
including e.g. financial losses, overpayment, etc. according to required format.
Keep up to date with regulatory requirements Interpret and implement all
organisational circulars, policy and other communications that impact on the
operation of the unit. Develop an activity plan for the unit and ensure effective
prioritisation and resource planning. Administer the implementation of
compliant performance management. Ensure compliance against finance,
asset management, supply chain and procurement. regulations and policy
requirements. Administer projects in line with the allocated targets of the unit.
Identify and monitor risks in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms V Motshegoe Tel No: (012) 406 4252
64
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ipsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/90 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DIGITAL REF NO: HRMC 17/26/18
Chief Directorate: Communication Services
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Digital Marketing, Public Relations or
Communication and Web Management at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA.
Three (3) Years’ technical experience in Digital Media or Social Media
Management is required. Knowledge of web and social media management is
a must. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Regulatory
Framework. Knowledge and understanding of all Departmental Legislations
and Prescripts. Knowledge of communication strategies and processes. A valid
drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work
extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Service delivery
innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. Knowledge management.
Decision Making. Communication (written and verbal). Program and project
management. Problem solving and analysis. Business report writing.
Influencing and networking. Presentation skills. Planning and organizing Skills.
Interpersonal skills. Technical Skills: Commercial Skills. Computer literacy.
Negotiation Skills. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Facilitate and maintain the intranet, website and social media
platforms for the department. Assume full editorial management responsibility
for all digital platforms of the department. Management of information via the
intranet, website and social media platforms. Ensuring effective distribution of
updated information, programmes and campaigns via all digital platforms to
ensure timely news and internal information sharing. Contribute to the
formulation and implementation of process of internal communication or staff
information network including communication standards, processes and
procedures. Maintain superior editorial standards across all departmental
digital publications. Develop and implement mechanisms to encourage staff
participation and involvement in DHA matters and events. Promote effective
use of agreed communication channels, standards, processes and procedures
throughout the department. Development and implementation of policy and
procedure, directive acts and regulations. Implementation of policies,
procedures, directives, acts and regulations. Ensure the implementation of
effective risk and compliance management. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr B Mathatho Tel No: (012) 406 4250
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
commsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/91 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EXTERNAL LIAISON REF NO: HRMC 17/26/19
Chief Directorate: Investigations
SALARY : R468 459 - R 551 823 per annum (Level 09), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law, Criminal Justice, Forensics, Policing,
Public Management or Public Administration at NQF level 6 as recognised by
SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience at a Supervisory level in an investigations
environment is required. Knowledge of Minimum Information Security
Standards. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of Anti-
corruption Framework. Knowledge and experience of the Criminal Justice
System. Knowledge of Promotion Administration of Justice Act. Understanding
of the Departmental legislation as well as Human Resources Regulatory
Framework. Knowledge of investigations principles and processes. Knowledge
of the planning, implementation and evaluation/monitoring of enforcement.
Knowledge of relevant South African legislation and corporate governance
principles. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. A valid drivers’
license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer
65
Focus. People Management and Empowerment. Honesty and integrity.
Programme and Project Management. Business Continuity. Decision Making.
Influencing and networking. Attention to detail. Process analysis and
improvement. Conflict resolution and management. Confidentiality. Ability to
work independently and under pressure, managing multiple cases and
deadlines. Presentation skills. Communication skills. Planning and Organising
skills. Computer literacy. Investigation skills. Capability and leadership skills.
Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Monitor the daily operations of all external reporting channels
(phone, email, web, post, etc.), ensuring accessibility, reliability, and anonymity
as guaranteed by policy and legislation (such as the Protected Disclosures Act
2000). Develop, document, and implement clear operating policies, standard
operating procedures (SOPs), and directives for the handling, assessment, and
investigation of all reported information. Ensure all reports are accurately
received, logged with case control numbers, and channelled to the appropriate
internal division (e.g., HR, Legal, Audit) for timely and objective investigation.
Facilitate and implement strict protocols to protect the identity of
whistleblowers, ensuring that any identifying information is removed from
reports while maintaining the substance of the report. Facilitate the
development, communicate, enforce related policies and procedures. Facilitate
the development, performance and delivery of the internal support to the unit,
to produce reliable and delivery solutions, to maximise performance and
profitability against pre-agreed targets. Conduct ongoing training and
awareness programmes for employees and management about the hotline,
disciplinary policies, and the code of conduct as required. Ensure business
transformation and partnership with various stakeholders. Compile tactical
plans aligned to business requirements. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders on matters related to the investigation. Benchmark with various
institutions for best practice. Coordinate, revisit, review and streamline all
processes to ensure accuracy and efficiency. Facilitate and implement
improvement of projects in the unit. Contributes towards the formulation of
investigation Framework, policies, processes and circulars. Enforce
compliance to regulations and policies guidelines in the department. Monitor
and maintain issues related to investigation practices and security breaches by
staff. Participate in the activities in relevant structures i.e. Investigations
Information Coordination Committee (IICC) and the South African Banking Risk
Information Centre (SABRIC). Report on all risk and financial indicators
including e.g. financial losses, overpayment, etc. according to required format.
Keep up to date with compliance and regulatory requirements and liaise with
all relevant stakeholders within and external to the Organisation to ensure
accurate implementation. Interpret and implement all organisational circulars,
policy and other communications that impact on the operation of the business
unit. Implement compliance with all duties of the employer in terms of the
applicable legislative framework falling within office duties. Develop the activity
plan for the unit and ensure effective prioritisation and resource planning.
Agree on the training and development needs of the unit. Implement effective
talent management processes within the unit (attraction, retention,
development). Administer the implementation of compliant performance
management. Ensure that employees are equipped with the required skills and
resources to perform optimally. Administer compliance of the unit against asset
management, supply chain and policy requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr R Mohlaka Tel No: (012) 406 4246
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/92 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL HOTLINE REF NO: HRMC 17/26/20
Chief Directorate: Prevention and Analysis
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law, Policing, Forensics Investigation or
Public Administration at an NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA. Three (3)
Years’ experience at a Supervisory level in conducting investigations,
investigations co-ordination and information gathering in an investigations
environment is required. Experience in coordination information gathering
66
processes. Knowledge of Minimum Information Security Standards.
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of Anti-corruption
Framework. Knowledge and experience of the Criminal Justice System.
Knowledge of Promotion Administration of Justice Act. Understanding of the
Departmental legislation as well as Human Resources Regulatory Framework.
Knowledge of investigations principles and processes. Knowledge of the
planning, implementation and evaluation/monitoring of enforcement.
Knowledge of relevant South African legislation and corporate governance
principles. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel
and work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Service Delivery
Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. People Management and
Empowerment. Financial Management. Honesty and integrity. Programme and
Project Management. Business Continuity. Decision Making. Influencing and
networking. Attention to detail. Process analysis and improvement. Conflict
resolution and management. Confidentiality. Ability to work independently and
under pressure, managing multiple cases and deadlines. Presentation Skill.
Communication Skill. Planning and Organising Skill. Computer literacy.
Investigation skills. Capability and leadership skills. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity
and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Monitor daily operations of the internal hotline(s),
which may include phone, email, and online reporting channels, ensuring
accessibility and efficiency. Formalise and monitor the process for receiving,
recording, tracking, and documenting all reported issues and incidents,
ensuring consistency, confidentiality, and accuracy. Ensure compliance of
hotline management practices comply with South African labour legislation, the
Protected Disclosures Act, relevant Departmental policies, and governance
frameworks (e.g., King IV, PFMA in the Department). Facilitate and implement
robust safeguards to protect the anonymity and confidentiality of employees
who report misconduct and ensure they are protected from any form of
retaliation. Prepare detailed reports on findings, trends, and statistics for
executive management and the governing body and submit them to the
Supervisor (e.g., Board of Directors or Audit Committee) to identify systemic
issues and areas for improvement. Facilitate development, communication,
enforce related policies and procedures. Facilitate the development,
performance and delivery of internal support to the unit, to produce reliable
delivery solutions, to maximise performance and profitability against pre-
agreed targets. Conduct ongoing training and awareness programmes for
employees and management about the hotline, disciplinary policies, and the
code of conduct as required. Facilitate development, communication, enforce
related policies and procedures. Facilitate the development, performance and
delivery of internal support to the unit, to produce reliable delivery solutions, to
maximise performance and profitability against pre-agreed targets. Conduct
ongoing training and awareness programmes for employees and management
about the hotline, disciplinary policies, and the code of conduct as required.
Ensure business transformation and partnership with various stakeholders.
Compile tactical plans aligned to business requirements. Liaise with internal
and external stakeholders on matters related to the investigation. Benchmark
with various institutions for best practice. Coordinate, revisit, review and
streamline all processes to ensure accuracy and efficiency. Ensure effective
risk and compliance management. Report on all risk and financial indicators
including e.g. financial losses, over payments, etc. according to required
formats. Monitor and ensure compliance with legislation, regulations, DHA
policies and procedures within the directorate. Ensure compliance with all audit
requirements within the directorate. Implement Public Service governance
processes, framework and procedures. Monitor and ensure compliance with
legislation, regulations and DHA policies and procedures. Support the
development of policy development by providing input and ensure the effective
implementation thereof. Develop and implement activity plan in line with the
quarterly projects. Develop an individual PDP. Submit proposals and plans for
projects of the unit. Make recommendations for external contractors and
suppliers within the unit in an effective and efficient manner. Administer the
implementation of compliant performance management system. Ensure that
employees are equipped with the required skills and resources to perform
optimally. Administer asset management and projects in line with PFMA and
Supply Chain Management Framework.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms S Maswanganyi Tel No: (012) 406 4236
67
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/93 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LAYOUT AND DESIGN REF NO: HRMC 17/26/21
Chief Directorate: Communication Services
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Graphic Design, Communication, Computer
Animation, Digital Arts or Motion Graphic Design at NQF 6 as recognized by
SAQA. Three (3) Years’ technical experience in a graphic design, digital arts
environment is required. Portfolio of previous work and sufficient evidence of
graphic design projects. Advance in using Adobe Creative Cloud, Adobe
Photoshop, Adobe in design, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Premier Pro.
Knowledge of Video Editing, 3D and Motion Graphic apps such as Final Cut
Pro, Sketchbook, Canva and Procreate will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of Apple Mac, Macbook Pro and the use of Apple IPad for design
purposes. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Regulatory
Framework. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Regulatory
Framework. Knowledge and understanding of all Departmental Legislations
and Prescripts. Knowledge of all communication strategies and processes. A
valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work
extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Service delivery
innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. Knowledge management.
Decision Making. Communication (written and verbal). Program and project
management. Problem solving and analysis. Business report writing.
Influencing and networking. Presentation skills. Planning and organizing skills.
Interpersonal skills. Technical skills: Commercial skills. Computer literacy.
Negotiation skills. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Coordinate and design all departmental designs and layouts.
Conceive ideas, concepts, and campaigns, produce, coordinate and create
multiphase communication materials in print, and other mediums. Provide
professional recommendations for concept, design, art direction, production,
printing buying and monitors quality controls. Defines design criteria, develops
concept and direction, and proposes directs and creates art and photography.
Creates and develops media using digital art and photographic techniques.
Monitors and tracks production projects to ensure proper and timely completion
using file maker pro; works with outside vendors to meet production deadlines.
Responsible for print and pre-press service specifications, purchasing,
approvals and quality control. Maintains equipment and supply inventory and
maintains accurate files and records thereafter. Contributes to the editorial
development of projects. Manage the visual execution of designs and layout
briefs by collecting, designing and manipulation of artwork and photographic
material, text compilation and finalisation for the press and web.
Implementation of policies, procedures, directives, acts and regulations.
Establish, maintain and ensure a good working relationship with the
department and relevant stakeholders. Ensure the implementation of effective
risk and compliance management. Ensure effective and efficient management
of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide
staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms V Motshegoe Tel No: (012) 406 4252
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
commsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 13/94 : CIVIC SERVICES SUPERVISOR: AMENDMENTS AND RECTIFICATIONS,
REF NO: HRMC 17/26/22
Sub-Directorate: Amendment and Rectifications
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration, Public Management,
Operations or Business Management at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Two
(2) Years’ experience in operations in a client or customer services environment
is required. Experience in Amendments and Rectifications registration
68
processes is an added advantage. Knowledge of Births and Deaths
Registration. Knowledge and understanding of all Departmental Legislations
and Prescripts (Civic Services). Basic knowledge of Human Resource
Regulatory Framework. Basic knowledge of Public Service Regulations.
Required skills and competencies: Interpersonal Relations. Flexibility.
Accountability. Analytical skills. Planning and Organising. Conflict Resolution.
Time Management. Ability to meet deadlines. Strong Client and Customer
Service. Computer literacy. Planning and Organising. Good verbal and written.
Communication skills. Problem solving. Report writing. Patriotic, Honesty,
Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Supervise and coordinate the effective daily operations of the
Amendment and Rectifications Unit. Monitor daily performance against service
level standards, including turnaround times, backlogs, trends, and error rates,
and take corrective action or escalate in line with DHA guidelines. Perform end-
of-day operational controls and compile daily and weekly performance reports
on turnaround times, volumes processed, and error rates. Implement
measures to ensure quality service delivery and adherence to prescribed
standards. Manage records and documentation in accordance with DHA
records management policies and prescripts. Attend to standard and non-
standard operational requests and issues raised by staff. Provide technical
advice, guidance, and on-the-job support to staff in the execution of daily tasks.
Allocate daily work to staff members and monitor progress against daily targets
and outputs. Identify operational challenges (capacity constraints, training
gaps, bottlenecks) and recommend solutions to management. Remain up to
date with legislative requirements, DHA policies, and circulars, and ensure
accurate implementation. Liaise with Front Offices, Foreign Offices, and
members of the public regarding application status, enquiries, and advisory
matters. Escalate all irregularities and suspected fraudulent activities to
management or Counter Corruption and Security in accordance with
prescribed procedures. Support digital transformation initiatives. Client Service
and Stakeholder Relations. Risk Management, Compliance, and Quality
Assurance. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
EQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms B Kabinde Tel No: (012) 406 4239
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za Head Office, Hallmark
Building: Physical address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street, Pretoria, 0001
POST 13/95 : CIVIC SERVICES SUPERVISOR: BIRTHS AND DEATHS REF NO: HRMC
17/26/23
Sub- Directorate: Births and Deaths
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane,
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration, Public Management,
Operations or Business Management at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Two
(2) Years’ experience in operations in a client or customer services environment
is required. Experience in Births and Deaths registration processes is an added
advantage. Knowledge of Births and Deaths Registration. Knowledge and
understanding of the Departmental Legislations and Prescripts (Civic
Services). Basic knowledge of Human Resource Regulatory Framework. Basic
knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Required skills and competencies:
Interpersonal Relations. Flexibility. Accountability. Analytical skills. Planning
and Organising. Conflict Resolution. Time Management. Ability to meet
deadlines. Strong Client and customer service. Computer literacy. Planning
and Organising. Good verbal and written. Communication skills. Problem
solving. Report writing. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Supervise and coordinate the effective daily operations of the
Births and Deaths Unit. Monitor daily performance against service level
standards, including turnaround times, backlogs, trends, and error rates, and
take corrective action or escalate in line with DHA guidelines. Perform end-of-
day operational controls and compile daily and weekly performance reports on
turnaround times, volumes processed, and error rates. Implement measures to
ensure quality service delivery and adherence to prescribed standards.
69
Manage records and documentation in accordance with DHA records
management policies and prescripts. Attend to standard and non-standard
operational requests and issues raised by staff. Provide technical advice,
guidance, and on-the-job support to staff in the execution of daily tasks.
Allocate daily work to staff members and monitor progress against daily targets
and outputs. Identify operational challenges (capacity constraints, training
gaps, bottlenecks) and recommend solutions to management. Remain up to
date with legislative requirements, DHA policies, and circulars, and ensure
accurate implementation. Liaise with Front Offices, Foreign Offices, and
members of the public regarding application status, enquiries, and advisory
matters. Escalate all irregularities and suspected fraudulent activities to
management or Counter Corruption and Security in accordance with
prescribed procedures. Support digital transformation initiatives. Client Service
and Stakeholder Relations. Risk Management, Compliance, and Quality
Assurance. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr S Tshabalala Tel No: (012) 406 4117
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za Head Office, Hallmark
Building: Physical address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street, Pretoria, 0001
POST 13/96 : CIVIC SERVICES SUPERVISOR: MARRIAGES REF NO: HRMC 17/26/24
Sub-Directorate: Marriages
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration, Public Management,
Operations or Business Management at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA is
required. Two (2) Years’ experience in operations in a client or customer
services environment is required. Experience in Births, Deaths and Marriages
registration processes is an added advantage. Knowledge of Births and Deaths
Registration. Knowledge and understanding of the Departmental Legislations
and Prescripts (Civic Services). Basic knowledge of Human Resource
Regulatory Framework. Basic knowledge of Public Service Regulations.
Required skills and competencies: Interpersonal Relations. Flexibility.
Accountability. Analytical skills. Planning and Organising. Conflict Resolution.
Time Management. Ability to meet deadlines. Strong Client and customer
service. Computer literacy. Planning and Organising. Good verbal and written.
Communication skills. Problem solving. Report writing. Patriotic, Honesty,
Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Supervise and coordinate the effective daily operations
of the Marriages Unit. Monitor daily performance against service level
standards, including turnaround times, backlogs, trends, and error rates, and
take corrective action or escalate in line with DHA guidelines. Perform end-of-
day operational controls and compile daily and weekly performance reports on
turnaround times, volumes processed, and error rates. Implement measures to
ensure quality service delivery and adherence to prescribed standards.
Manage records and documentation in accordance with DHA records
management policies and prescripts. Attend to standard and non-standard
operational requests and issues raised by staff. Provide technical advice,
guidance, and on-the-job support to staff in the execution of daily tasks.
Allocate daily work to staff members and monitor progress against daily targets
and outputs. Identify operational challenges (capacity constraints, training
gaps, bottlenecks) and recommend solutions to management. Remain up to
date with legislative requirements, DHA policies, and circulars, and ensure
accurate implementation. Liaise with Front Offices, Foreign Offices, and
members of the public regarding application status, enquiries, and advisory
matters. Escalate all irregularities and suspected fraudulent activities to
management or Counter Corruption and Security in accordance with
prescribed procedures. Support digital transformation initiatives. Client Service
and Stakeholder Relations. Risk Management, Compliance, and Quality
Assurance. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms S Maswanganyi Tel No: (012) 406 4236
70
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za Head Office, Hallmark
Building: Physical address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street, Pretoria, 0001
POST 13/97 : INVENTORYCLERK REF NO: HRMC 17/26/25
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF 5 as recognized by SAQA is required.
Knowledge of the Constitution. Knowledge of good governance and Batho Pele
Principles. Knowledge of internal performance evaluation and reporting.
Knowledge of Government decision making processes. Knowledge of Diversity
Management. Knowledge of Performance Management and Monitoring.
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of Government systems
and structure. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act. Required skills
and competencies: Job Knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal Relations.
Record Management. Flexibility. Honesty and Integrity. Customer Service
Focus. Computer literacy. Planning and Organising. Good verbal and written.
Communication skills. Problem solving.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Receive and issue goods (stock items). Receive and capturing
of all request on the LOGIS Procurement Integration. Receive and record the
Face value forms. Issue stock on the Warehouse and update Bin cards.
Prepare courier of goods worldwide. Update on the minimum stock level.
Receive requestions from the end-user and record them. Render accounting
and warehouse clerical support. Process transaction in accordance with
standard operating procedures, legislative requirements and procurement
policy. Receiving, verifying, and issuing goods, maintaining registers, and
conducting stock takes and reconciliations. Provide effective and efficient daily
procurement administration functions. Safekeeping of stores and warehouse
items. Ensure that spot checks and stocktaking is performed. Follow-up with
Suppliers regarding outstanding deliveries.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms R Masemola Tel No: (012) 406 4156
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za Head Office, Hallmark
Building: Physical address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street
POST 13/98 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: HRMC 17/26/26 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification at NQF 5 as recognized by SAQA is required.
Knowledge of the Constitution. Knowledge of Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of Internal performance evaluation and reporting. Knowledge of
Good governance and Batho Pele Principles. Knowledge of Diversity
Management. Knowledge of Labour and Employment Legislation. Knowledge
of Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of Government systems and
structures. Knowledge of Performance Management and Monitoring. Required
skills and competencies: Job Knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal
Relations. Record Management. Flexibility. Honesty and Integrity. Customer
Service Focus. Computer literacy. Planning and Organising. Good verbal and
written. Communication skills. Problem solving.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Processing of orders on LOGIS and manual orders.
Verifying ICN numbers, quotations and supporting documents and ensure
correct placement of orders to the relevant supplier. Process transactions in
accordance with standard operating procedures, legislative requirements and
procurement policy. Ensure that the entire requisitions complies with
procurement regulations and delegations of authority. Ensure that the
specifications is clearly, to be linked with the correct ICN number. Manage
records/files and documentation according to DHA and Treasury requirements.
Ensure accuracy and completeness of transactions. Provide administrative
support to the unit. Review and validate all supporting documentation (e.g.,
requisitions, quotes, approvals) before capturing LOGIS orders. Authorization
71
of LOGIS orders and Procurement advises. Ensure accurate placement of
orders with relevant suppliers by verifying the validity of quotations prior to
processing. Render logistical services.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr S Tshabalala Tel No: (012) 406 4117
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za Head Office, Hallmark
Building: Physical address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street
72
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026
NOTE : The application must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. Applicants who wish to post their application forms are
encouraged to utilize courier services in light of the current post office
challenges. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. A pre-entry certificate
obtained from National School of Government (NSG) is required before
appointment for all SMS positions. Candidate will complete a financial
disclosure form and also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must provide the Police Clearance
certificate from country of origin only when shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an
equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts the objectives of
section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of
1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment
Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies
of the Department will be taken into consideration. Reasonable
accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities including where
driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3 months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The
department reserves the right not to fill these positions. Women and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the EE
Target.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/99 : SOCIAL WORKER SUPERVISOR (GRADE 1- 2) REF NO: 27/2026/FA/WC
SALARY : R477 564 – R893 949 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the Family Advocate: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree in Social Work or equivalent qualification which allows for
professional registration with the SACSSP; Professional registration with the
SACSSP; A minimum of seven (7) years appropriate experience in Social Work
after registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP; Knowledge and
experience in Mediation; Court experience in leading Evidence; Knowledge
and application of Family Law, including Mediation in certain Divorce Matters
Act, Maintenance Act and Domestic Violence Act; Children’s Act (inclusive
Hague Convention on International Child Abduction). Skills and Competencies:
Supervisory skills; Facilitation skills; Communication skills (written and verbal);
Computer literacy (MS Office); Mediation; Interviewing; Conflict resolution;
Evaluation and report writing skills; Diversity and conflict management;
Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Oversee child focus forensic assessment services;
Supervise risk related to children’s care environment and or contracts;
73
Supervise the provision of Expert witness evidence in Court of Law; Oversee
implementation and monitoring operational performance social work Services,
Conduct Appropriate Disputes Resolutions, Compile and register Parental
Responsibilities and Rights (PRR) and Parenting Plans; Manage human;
finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Knowles Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application to: Provincial Head: Private Bag X9171, Cape
Town, 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor Norton Rose
House, Cape Town OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Paraffin
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of registration with
SACSSP and service certificates of appropriate experience in Social Work after
registration as Social Worker with SACSSP. Candidates whose name appear
on Part B of the Child Register as mandated by Section 123(5) of the Children’s
Act, 2005 need not apply.
POST 13/100 : ASSISTANT STATE ATTORNEY (LP3-LP4) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R377 523 - R1 032 906 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney Office, Port Elizabeth Ref No: 73/26EC (X1 Post)
State Attorney Office, Mthatha Ref No: 74/26EC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB or 4 year recognized legal qualification; Admission as an Attorney; At
least 2 years’ appropriate post qualification legal/litigation experience; A
thorough knowledge of legal practice, office management, accounting system
and trust accounts; Knowledge of the government prescripts and
transformation objective as well as the Constitution of South Africa; Knowledge
of legal proceedings, personal injuries claims, contracts, labour cases and
criminal cases; A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Computer
literacy; Legal research and drafting; Dispute resolution; Case flow
management; Strategic and conceptual orientation; Communication skills
(written and verbal).
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Handle litigation and appeals in the High Courts,
Magistrate’s Court, Labour Courts, Land Claims Court and Commission for
Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA), Draft and/or settle all types of
agreements on behalf of the various clients; Render legal opinions and advice;
Handle all forms of arbitration, including inter-departmental arbitration and debt
collection.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Jilana Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7010
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
POST 13/101 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 75/26EC
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent; Three (3) years’ experience in
Administration; Understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service; knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations; Departmental Financial Instructions (DFI), Public Service Act and
other relevant legislation. Skills and Competencies: Communication (written
and verbal) skills; Computer Literacy (MS Office); Planning and Organizing
skill; Ability to work under pressure; Problem solving skills; Customer service;
Document management and filing; Numerical skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervise and render clerical support services;
Supervise and provide Supply Chain clerical services within the component;
Supervise and provide personnel administration clerical support services within
the component; Supervise and provide financial administration support
services in the component; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ndamase Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7129
74
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 OR to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London
POST 13/102 : ESTATE CONTROLLER (EC1-EC4) REF NO: 31/2026/M/WC (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R252 855 – R586 956 per annum, (Salary will be determined in accordance
with as per OSD determination). The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.)
CENTRE : Master of the High Court: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or four year recognized legal qualification; Knowledge of
Administration of Estates Act, Compliance, Mental Health, Insolvency Act and
other related Act, Registration of trusts Act, Curatorship’s Act; knowledge of all
local and international Legislation that regulates protection of children, South
African legal system, legal practices and related spheres with specific
reference to civil litigation and the law of contract. Knowledge of the
Constitution, the Institution of Legal Proceedings Against Certain Organs of
State Act, State Attorney Act, the Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations and the State Liability Act. Skills and Competencies: Legal
research and drafting; Case flow management; Trust; Estate duties; Dispute
resolution; Communication skills (verbal and written); Problem solving;
Customer focus; Attention to detail; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Administer Deceased Estates, Insolvent Estates,
Curatorship; Trust and all aspects related to the administration thereof;
Determine and assess Estate duties in terms of the Estate Duties Act; Conduct
research and draft legal documents; Render administrative function of the
office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application to: Provincial Head: Private Bag X9171, Cape
Town, 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th Floor Norton Rose
House, Cape Town OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 13/103 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Port Elizabeth Ref No: 69/26EC (X3 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Joubertina Ref No: 70/26EC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Skills and Competencies: Good
communication (written and verbal skills); Computer literacy (MS Office);
Administrative and organization skill; Ability to work under pressure; Customer
service; Document management and filing; Numerical skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render general clerical support services; Provide
supply chain clerical support services within the component; Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component; Provide financial
administration support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Williams Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7131
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
POST 13/104 : ACCOUNTING CLERK (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney Office: Mthatha Ref No: 71/26EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Motherwell Ref No: 72/26EC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Knowledge and understanding of financial
legislation, Prescripts and Procedures; Knowledge of Basic Operating System
(BAS), Justice Yellow Page (JYP), PERSAL; Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Division of Revenue Act (DORA), Public Service Act
(PSA), Public Service Regulation (PSR) and Preferential of Procurement Policy
75
Framework Act (PPPFA); Knowledge of basic financial operating systems
(PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS). Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy; Good
communication skills (Written & verbal); Creative and analytical; Planning and
Organizing; Problem solving and conflict Management; Accuracy and attention
to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render financial accounting transactions; Perform
salary administration support; Perform bookkeeping support services; Render
a budget support service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Williams Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7131
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number.
POST 13/105 : MESSENGER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Motherwell Ref No: 63/26EC (X1 Post)
Family Advocate: Port Elizabeth Ref No: 64/26EC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/Abet level 4; A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies:
Interpersonal skills; Creative thinking; Customer service orientation; Problem
analysis; Self-management; Ability to work in a team; Technical proficiency.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render driver/ messenger support services; Collect
correspondence, distribute mail and parcels to the various office; Collect
documents from respective government institutions; Transport officials to
various destinations; Render clerical support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Ndamase Tel No: (043) 702 702 7000/7133
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
POST 13/106 : TELECOM OPERATOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Zwelitsha Ref No: 66/26EC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Humansdorp Ref No: 67/26EC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Skills and Competencies: Communication
(written and verbal) skills; Computer literacy (MS Office); Interpersonal skills;
Good telephone etiquette; Numerical skills; Ability to operate technical
equipment; Loyalty and high levels of integrity; Ability to work under pressure;
Conflict management skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Handle incoming and outgoing calls, transfer calls,
take and convey messages; Ensure that the switchboard is manned at all
times; Attend to all other duties that may be required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Williams Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7131
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
POST 13/107 : HELPDESK OPERATOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Master of The High Court: Bisho Ref No 65/26EC (X1 Post)
Master of the Western Cape High Court: Cape Town Ref No: 32/2026/M/WC
(X1 Post)
76
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Skills and Competencies: Computer
literacy (MS Office); Good communication skills (written and verbal);
Interpersonal skills; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Handle all incoming and outgoing calls and convey
messages; Forward calls to the appropriate division/section/officials; Assist
callers with general enquires; Test the switchboard consoles; Ensure proper
maintenance of the switch board equipment; Prepare the telephone printouts
for calls and keep records and statistics thereof.xc
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape: Ms C Williams Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7131
Western Cape: Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London.
Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X 9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th
Floor Norton Rose House, Cape Town OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu For Attention: Western Cape Ms P
Paraffin
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
POST 13/108 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO 68/26EC
SALARY : R163 680 – R192 810 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Zwelitsha
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12; Knowledge of Physical Security procedures and processes, Safety
and Security Legislative Frameworks, PSIRA Grade C. Skills and
Competencies: Communication skills (verbal and written); Problem solving;
Good interpersonal relations; Planning and organizing skills; Computer
literacy; Ability to operate security equipment; Understanding of confidentiality
in Government.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide access control; Improve safety in the building
or premises; Prohibit unauthorized items from entering or leaving the building
or premises; Watch CCTV cameras; Enroll staff on bio-metric system; Provide
access to staff coming to the premises over weekends.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. C Williams Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7131
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London.
77
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES
The Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources (DMPR) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action
employer and it is its intention to promote representivity in the Public Sector through the filling of this
post. Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity are encouraged to
apply, particularly persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An
indication of such, in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must be submitted via DMPR E-Recruitment System accessible
using the following link https://erecruitment.dmpr.gov.za. Applications must
create a user profile by completing all required personal information and setting
up your login credential on DMPR E-Recruitment System. Once registration is
complete and logged in to the system, you may browse all vacant positions.
Another option is to submit application by post or courier, quoting relevant
reference, addressed to: The Director-General, Department of Mineral and
Petroleum Resources, Private Bag X59, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively,
applications may also be hand delivered to Trevenna Campus, corner Meintjies
and Francis Baard Street, former Schoeman. General enquiries may be
brought to the attention of Ms T Gumede Tel No: (012) 444- 3319.
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026
NOTE : Applications Applicants are strongly advised to complete and attach recent Z83
application form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued by
the Minister of Public Service Administration in line with regulation 10 of the
Public Service Regulations, 2016 as amended, which is obtainable online from
www.dpsa.gov.za and detailed Curriculum Vitae when submitting applications
on DMPR E-Recruitment System. Applications must be submitted on the recent
Z83 application form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued
by the Minister of Public Service Administration in line with regulation 10 of the
Public Service Regulations, 2016 as amended, which is obtainable online from
www.gov.za and www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be completed
(In full, accurately, legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated), and
accompanied by a comprehensive/ detailed Curriculum Vitae only. Applicants
are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will be
required from shortlisted candidates only on or before the day of the interview.
The Curriculum Vitae must have at least three (3) reference persons and their
contacts. Failure to provide accurate information on a job application as well
as incomplete information will result in a disqualification. Job applicants in
possession of a foreign qualification(s), must also provide an evaluation
certificate obtainable from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If
an invitation for an interview is not received within three (3) months after the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Requirements
stated on the advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore,
criteria for shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications
received. Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical exercise
and an oral interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks
(PSC) will be conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore will be
required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department
to conduct this exercise. PSC includes security screening and vetting,
qualification verification, criminal records, financial records checks. Applicants
who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as
application received after the closing date will not be considered. If an applicant
wishes to withdraw an application, He/ She must do so in writing. It is also
important to note that the Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised post at any stage of the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/109 : SENIOR INSPECTOR: MINE SURVEYING REF NO: 066
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Mine Surveying/ Mineral Resource Management ( NQF
6) with Mine Surveyors Certificate of Competency and valid driver's licence
PLUS minimum of 3 years’ experience at junior managerial level in Mine
78
Surveying, Knowledge of: in depth understanding and knowledge of the mine
health and safety, knowledge of the policy regime affecting the minerals and
mining industry, government policy and legislation Skills: Problem solving,
Communication (Verbal, written, liaison, Influencing skills, Negotiation skills,
Proven managerial skills, Management and Organisation skills, Advanced
analytical skills, Good interpersonal relations at all levels, Conflict
management, Creativity and innovation, Numerical, Organising and
coordinating, Facilitation and implementation, Financial management,
Negotiation and consultation skills, Problem solving and analysis, Strategic
capability and leadership, Change management, Thinking demand:
Creative/Innovative thinker, Logical, Objective, Accurate, Diplomatic.
DUTIES : Plan and exercise control over all mine surveying inspections. Exercise control
over the safe utilisation of land applications. Assist with special investigations,
enquires and technical support. Perform ad hoc tasks and investigations. Serve
on mine surveying related committees and attend seminars. Provide
managerial activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. G Sekwati Tel No: (012) 444 3789
NOTE : Indian /Coloured or white male are encouraged to apply. Note: All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical
Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises
as an additional criterion in the interview process.
POST 13/110 : INSPECTOR: MINE SURVEYING REF NO: 067 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS A National Diploma in Mine Surveying/ Mineral Resource Management (NQF
6) with Mine Surveyors Certificate of Competence and valid driver's licence
PLUS minimum of 3 years’ experience at junior managerial level in Mine
Surveying, Knowledge of: In-depth understanding and knowledge of the mine
health and safety, knowledge of the policy regime affecting the minerals and
mining industry, government policy and legislation Skills: Problem solving,
Communication (Verbal, written, liaison), Influencing skills, Negotiation skills,
Proven management skills, Management and Organisation skills, Advanced
analytical skills, Good interpersonal relations at all levels, Conflict management
skills, Creativity and innovation, Numerical, Organising and coordinating,
Facilitation and implementation, Financial Management, Negotiation and
consultation skills, Problem solving and analysis, Strategic capability and
leadership, Change management, Thinking demand: Creative/ innovative
thinker, Logical, Objective, Accurate, Diplomatic.
DUTIES : Conduct underground inspection, compile reports and maintain records.
Conduct inspection of plans and records of surface and underground mines,
compile reports and maintain records. Investigate and make recommendations
surface utilization applications, compile reports and maintain records. Process
statutory applications regarding mine and surveying permissions and
exemptions, compile reports and maintain records. Serve on mine surveying
related committees and attend seminars Conduct practical mine surveying field
tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. G Sekwati Tel No: (012) 444 3789
NOTE : Indian /Coloured or white male are encouraged to apply. Note: All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical
Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises
as an additional criterion in the interview process.
POST 13/111 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
CHANGE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 068
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Commerce in Industrial and Organizational Psychology/National
Diploma Management Services/National Diploma Operations Management
(NQF6), Certificate in Job Evaluation Analysis with a minimum of 3 years’
experience in a Work Study/ Organizational Development Environment as a
Practitioner Knowledge of: Have a sound knowledge and understanding of:
policies, prescripts, regulations, white Papers, public administration etc;, work
79
study and work study techniques, job descriptions and specifications, job
evaluation, staff supervision, OMF, Knowledge and understanding of project
and change management, Skills: Communication skills., Computer s\kills,
Report writing, Listening and interpretation, Analytical and interpretation,
Analytical skills, Basic research skills, Organising, coordination and planning
skills, Problem solving skills, Facilitation skills, Managerial skills, Training and
motivational skills, Thinking demand: Logical, Creative/Innovative thinker,
Objective, Accurate, Diplomatic.
DUTIES : Undertake organizational and post establishment investigations and advice
management in this regard. Conduct job analysis and job evaluation (JE).
Analysis and design of workflow and processes within an organisation
/Administer post establishment. Facilitate/ coordinate change management
intervention. Form Design. Provide managerial activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. C Ramoshaba Tel No: (012) 4443221
NOTE : Indian /Coloured or white male are encouraged to apply. Note: All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical
Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises
as an additional criterion in the interview process. Note: Due to travelling, a
driver’s licence will be recommended.
POST 13/112 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 069
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Northern Cape Region, Springbok
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 with minimum of 3 years’ experience within an administration
environment, Knowledge of: Financial prescripts, Acts, policies etc. applicable
to supply chain management, transport and risk management and control
human resource policies and prescripts Skills: Strong listening and
communication skills, Controlling and planning skills, Proven public
administration skills, Good management skills, Computer literate, Typing skills,
Ability to understand and interpret information. Thinking demand: Ability to
recognize dynamic changes in policy trends and adapt accordingly. Ability to
recognize financial risk.
DUTIES : Render an administrative management service in terms of Human Resources,
Supply Chain Management, Risk Management Facilities Management and
Transport services. Provide financial management Services. Oversee the
receiving and recording of applications in terms of the Mineral Petroleum
Resources Development Act (MPRDA). Maintain and oversee an efficient and
effective registry and record management services. Ensure that access to
information applications in line with PAIA prescript. Supervise and develop
staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Mariri Tel No: (053) 807 1776
NOTE : Indian /Coloured or white male are encouraged to apply. Note: All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical
Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises
as an additional criterion in the interview process.
POST 13/113 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PAYMENTS REF NO: 070
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 (NQF4), Knowledge of: Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Basic Accounting System,
PERSAL & BAS Skills: Computer skills, Financial, Good verbal and written
communication, Ability to communicate at all levels Thinking demand: Problem
solving, creativity, ability to negotiate, report writing.
DUTIES : Receive, Verify and record of sundry payments and S&T claims. Administration
of payments files. Make follow up on missing records. Retrieve and re-file
payment records. Ordering and dispatching of stationery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Sadiki at 082 963 7198
NOTE : Indian /Coloured or white male and persons with disability are encouraged to
apply. Note: All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process.
80
POST 13/114 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HYGIENE REF NO: 071
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gauteng Region, Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 (NQF4), Knowledge of: Knowledge of Mine Health and Safety
Inspectorate mandate. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Sector, Skills: Organization, Computer literacy,
Communication at all levels, Minute taking, Planning, Numerical, Telephone,
Dealing with different people e.g. Religion, Background, Culture, etc Thinking
demand: Logical. Creativity/Innovative, Planning and organising, Good verbal
and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Maintain hygiene database. Render general clerical services. Handle general
enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. N Mosia Tel No: (011) 358 9713
NOTE : Indian /Coloured or white male and persons with disability are encouraged to
apply. Note: All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process.
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME 2026/2027 – 2027/2028
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must be submitted via DMPR E-Recruitment System accessible
using the following link https://erecruitment.dmpr.gov.za. Applications must
create a user profile by completing all required personal information and setting
up your login credential on DMPR E-Recruitment System. Once registration is
complete and logged in to the system, you may browse all vacant positions.
Other option: Another option is to submit application by post or courier, quoting
relevant reference, addressed to: The Director-General, Department of Mineral
and Petroleum Resources, Private Bag X59, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively,
applications may also be hand delivered to Trevenna Campus, corner Meintjies
and Francis Baard Street, former Schoeman. General enquiries may be
brought to the attention of Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni
Tel No: (012) 444 3021.
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026
NOTE : The Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources would like to invite
qualifying applicants to apply for a Graduate Internship Programme for the
Financial Years 2026/2027 – 2027/2028. Persons with Disabilities and those
from TVET Colleges are encouraged to apply. Successful applicants will be
responsible for arranging their own accommodation and transport to and from
place of work, during the period of the Internship. Applications must be
submitted on the recent Z83 application form, which came into effect from 01
January 2021 as issued by the Minister of Public Service Administration in line
with the regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulation, 2016 as amended,
which is obtained online www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be
completed (in full, accurately, legibly, honestly, signed and dated), and
accompanied by a comprehensive / detailed Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other
related documents on or before the day of the interview which should not be
older than six months. Failure to comply with the above instructions will result
in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one post
must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the documentation mentioned
above) in respect of each post being applied for. If an applicant wishes to
withdraw an application, it must be done in writing. Should an application be
received where an applicant applies for more than one post on the same
applications form, the application will only be considered for the first post
indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts. Applicants who
participated in any other Government Internship Programmes before will not
be considered. Students requiring experiential training as part of their
qualification must attach a formal letter from their Tertiary Institution. Failure to
submit all the requested documents will result in the application not being
considered. The successful candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset record checks
and qualification and employment verification). Successful candidates will also
be subjected to security clearance processes. Applicants who do not receive
confirmation or feedback within three (3) months after the closing date, please
81
consider your application unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses
anticipated, receipt of applications will not be acknowledged, and
correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/115 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (INVESTMENT PROMOTION) REF NO: DMPR
INTERN 01
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Commerce / Bachelor of Arts in Economics / Finance / Investment
Management, International Business / Business Management / Public Policy
Researcher
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/116 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (PETROLEUM COMPLIANCE AND
ENFORCEMENT) REF NO: DMPR INTERN 02
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Legal Assistance / B JURIS /B PROC / Bachelor of Laws
(LLB)
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/117 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINERAL AND PETROLEUM TITLES
REGISTRATION) REF NO: DMPR INTERN 03
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma / Degree in Public Administration/Management / Office
Management and Technology / Office Administration
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/118 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (PETROLEUM LICENSING AND FUEL
SUPPLY) REF NO: DMPR INTERN 04
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma / Degree in Public Administration/Management / Office
Management and Technology / Office Administration
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/119 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (PETROLEUM LICENSING AND FUEL
SUPPLY) REF NO: DMPR INTERN 05
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma / Degree in Economics / Logistics / Finance
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
82
POST 13/120 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (FUEL PRICING MECHANISM) REF NO:
DMPR INTERN 06
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Economics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/121 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (OFFICE OF THE CFO) REF NO: DMPR
INTERN 07
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860,50, and Master’s R9482,
11 per month).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Finance / Financial Accounting / Financial Management
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam 012 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: 012 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/122 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (DEMAND, ACQUISITION AND CONTRACT
MANAGEMENT) REF NO: DMPR INTERN 08
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Logistics / Public Management / Supply Chain
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/123 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING AND
REPORTING): REF NO: DMPR INTERN 09
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Financial Accounting / Financial Management
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/124 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING) REF NO:
DMPR INTERN 10
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Management Accounting / Cost and Management
Accounting / Public Finance
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/125 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (LEGAL SERVICES) REF NO: DMPR INTERN
11
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Law / LLB
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
83
POST 13/126 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (HUMAN RESOURCES) REF NO: DMPR
INTERN 12
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma / Degree in Human Resource Management / Human
Resources Development / Management of Training
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/127 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (TECHNICAL SUPPORT UNIT) REF NO:
DMPR INTERN 13
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : N6 in Public Management or Public Administration
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/128 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINE ECONOMICS) REF NO: DMPR INTERN
14
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Gauteng, Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Geology / Mine Survey / Mining Engineering /
Economics / Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/129 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINERAL LAWS ADMINISTRATION) REF
NO: DMPR INTERN 15
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Gauteng, Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Laws or Bachelor of Arts in Law
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/130 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINERAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT)
REF NO: DMPR INTERN 16
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Gauteng, Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in GIS Geomatics or Environmental Management
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/131 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (FUEL LEVIES AND MARGINS) REF NO:
DMPR INTERN 17
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Economics or Accounting
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
84
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/132 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (PETROLEUM LICENSING AND FUEL
SUPPLY) REF NO: DMPR INTERN 18
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma / Degree in Economics / Logistics / Finance
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/133 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINE ECONOMICS) REF NO: DMPR INTERN
19
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Mpumalanga, Witbank
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Geology / Mine Survey / Mining Engineering /
Economics / Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/134 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINERAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT)
REF NO: DMPR INTERN 20
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Mpumalanga, Witbank
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Geographical Information System / Geography.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/135 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINERAL LAWS ADMINISTRATION) REF
NO: DMPR INTERN 21
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Mpumalanga, Witbank
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Laws (LLB).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/136 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (PETROLEUM LICENSING AND FUEL
SUPPLY): REF NO: DMPR INTERN 22
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Mpumalanga, Witbank
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Economics /Logistics / Finance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/137 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINE ECONOMICS): REF NO: DMPR INTERN
23
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Limpopo, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Geology / Mine Survey / Mining Engineering /
Economics / Accounting
85
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/138 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINERAL LAWS ADMINISTRATION): REF
NO: DMPR INTERN 24
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Limpopo, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Laws (LLB).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/139 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINERAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT):
REF NO: DMPR INTERN 25
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Limpopo, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Geographical Information System / Environmental Science /
Geography.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/140 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (PETROLEUM LICENSING AND FUEL
SUPPLY): REF NO: DMPR INTERN 26
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Limpopo, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma / Degree in Economics / Logistics / Finance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/141 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINE ECONOMICS): REF NO: DMPR INTERN
27
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Free State, Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Geology / Mine Survey / Mining Engineering /
Economics / Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/142 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (SOCIAL AND LABOUR PLAN): REF NO:
DMPR INTERN 28
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Free State, Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree / National Diploma in Development Economics / Social
Science / Industrial Science
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/143 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINERAL LAWS ADMINISTRATION) REF
NO: DMPR INTERN 29
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
86
CENTRE : Northern Cape, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Laws (LLB)
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/144 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT)
REF NO: DMPR INTERN 30
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Eastern Cape, Port-Elizabeth
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Environmental Management / Sciences.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/145 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (PETROLEUM LICENSING AND FUEL
SUPPLY) REF NO: DMPR INTERN 31
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s- R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Eastern Cape, East-London
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma / Degree in Economics / Logistics / Finance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/146 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (SOCIAL AND LABOUR PLAN) REF NO:
DMPR INTERN 32
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Western Cape, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Development Studies / Social Sciences / Community Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Sam 012 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: 012 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/147 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINE ECONOMICS) REF NO: DMPR INTERN
33
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : Western Cape, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Geology / Mine Survey / Mining Engineering /
Economics / Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/148 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (SOCIAL AND LABOUR PLAN) REF NO:
DMPR INTERN 34
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : North West, Klerksdorp
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Social Sciences / Developmental Studies / Community
Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
87
POST 13/149 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINERAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT)
REF NO: DMPR INTERN 35
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : North West, Klerksdorp
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Science in Environmental Sciences (with GIS).
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/150 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (PETROLEUM LICENSING AND FUEL
SUPPLY) REF NO: DMPR INTERN 36
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : North-West, Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma / Degree in Economics / Logistics or Finance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/151 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINE ECONOMICS) REF NO: DMPR INTERN
37
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal, Durban
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/Degree in Geology / Mine Survey / Mining Engineering /
Economics / Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/152 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINERAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT)
REF NO: DMPR INTERN 38
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal, Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Geographical Information System / Environmental Science.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/153 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (MINERAL LAWS ADMINISTRATION) REF
NO: DMPR INTERN 39
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal, Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Laws (LLB).
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/154 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME (PETROLEUM LICENSING AND FUEL
SUPPLY) REF NO: DMPR INTERN 40
STIPEND : A stipend will be paid according to proof of relevant qualification, and it will vary
as per qualification (Diploma/Degree/Honours R7860 50 and Master’s R9482
00 per month).
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal, Durban
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma / Degree in Economics / Logistics / Finance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sam Tel No: (012) 444 3722 / Mr. S Ngcaweni Tel No: (012) 444 3021
NOTE : Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
88
ANNEXURE I
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Free State Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X20612, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver applications
to the Free State High Court, Corner President Brand and Fontein Street,
Bloemfontein, 9301.
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
posts will be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access
to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment for SMS, a candidate
would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate
to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online
course, endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
89
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/155 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2026/03/OCJ
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a minimum of National Diploma in
Building Management / Construction Management / Project Management /
Property / Real Estate Management (NQF level 6). A minimum of 3 years’
experience in Facilities and Auxiliary services, at least one (1) year supervisory
experience at salary level 7 or 8 / junior management level. A valid driver’s
license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and skills: Occupational Health and Safety Act and
other Building Regulations. General built environment including mechanical,
electrical Water Services Act. National Environmental Management Act 107 of
1998 (NEMA). Horticultural processes and Cleaning Industry. Public Finance
Management Act, (PFMA). Supply Chain Management framework, directives
and procedures. Government Budget processes and procedures, report
writing, project management and implementation. Analytical skills.
Communication skills (written and verbal). Computer literacy skills. Research
and planning skills. Report writing skills. Interpersonal relations. Problem
Solving and Supervisory skills.
DUTIES : Ensure implementation of facilities and infrastructure projects at OCJ service
centres. Conduct accommodation needs audit with service centres.
Consolidate User Assets Management Plan (UAMP) for OCJ. Manage Office
space planning and parking allocation. Ensure day-to-day maintenance
function for OCJ service centres. Develop maintenance plan for OCJ.
Coordinate and monitor maintenance services. Monitor and report on the
status and progress of maintenance and update Action Log. Execute
operations related to facilities within OCJ. Ensure management of contracts
within OCJ. Provide support in management of expenditure within sub-
directorate. Implement and ensure compliance to facilities polices and
Standard Operating Procedures (SOP). Coordinate the facilities and auxiliary
services for the OCJ. Compile specifications and handle inspections in the
cleaning field. Manage and control equipment and material register. Coordinate
outsourced services within the OCJ. Manage resources. Ensure general
supervision and development of employees including training. Allocate duties
and perform quality control on the work delivered by officials. Mentor and coach
staff.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr M Masilo Tel No: (010) 493 2518
HR Related Enquiries: Mr K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2527
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2026/03/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 13/156 : SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER REF NO: 2026/04/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
90
CENTRE : Free State Provincial Service Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Supply Chain
Management/ Economics/ Finance/ Financial Management/ Procurement/
Logistics/ Public Administration or relevant qualification at NQF level 6. A
minimum of one (1) year experience in Supply Chain Management
environment. A valid driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge
and understanding of administrative and procurement procedure. Knowledge
of the Public Financial Management Act. Knowledge of Supply Chain
Management frameworks, policies and procedures. Knowledge of budgeting
and financial management. Knowledge of procurement policies and relevant
legislation prior to awarding contracts. Public Service Act 1994. Knowledge of
PPPFA regulations, Public Service Regulations 2016 and National Treasury
Regulations. Good understanding of departmental prescripts, frameworks
(e.g. departmental codes: COIDA and BBBEE) and Batho Pele Principles.
Computer literacy (MS Office), Strategic and conceptual orientation. Planning,
organising and problem-solving skills. Financial management and
interpersonal skills. Decision making and time management. Communication
skills and report writing skills.
DUTIES : Provide demand and acquisition services. Capture specification on the
electronic purchasing system. Approve the requisitions on the relevant system.
Ensure the payment of suppliers within 30 days. Ensure the implementation of
logistical support services. Ensure that suppliers are authorised on the system.
Ensure that goods are captured in registers and databases. Ensure the
compilation and maintenance of assets records. Verify the issuing of equipment
and accessories to components and individuals in need. Ensure the verification
of the asset register. Ensure the rendering of store services. Ensure access
control to the storeroom. Conduct stock taking and compile stocktaking report.
Supervise staff within Supply Chain ManagementDevelop, implement and
monitor work systems and processes to ensure efficient and effective
functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr. TJ Diphoko Tel No: (051) 492 4523
HR Related Enquiries: Ms D Peters Tel No: (051) 492 4523
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2026/04/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
91
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Head Office: The Director-General, Department of Public Works and
Infrastructure, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner
Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria. For Attention Ms NP Mudau
Pretoria Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works, Private Bag x 229, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver to AVN Building
corner Andries and Skinner Street, Pretoria. For Attention: Ms K. Tlhapane/ Ms
MC. Lekganyane
Cape Town Regional Office: Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The
Regional Manager, Department of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape
Town, 8000. Or Hand Deliver at Ground floor, Customs House, Lower
Heerengracht Street, Cape Town. For Attention: Ms. C Rossouw
Nelspruit Regional Office: Nelspruit Regional Applications: The Regional
Manager, Department of Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X11280,
Nelspruit, 1200. Physical Address: 30 Brown Street, Nedbank Building, 9th
floor, Nelspruit. For Attention: Mr EK Nguyuza
Kimberly Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of National
Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X5002, Kimberley, 8301. Or Hand
Deliver at 21 – 23 Market Square Street, Old Magistrate Court, Kimberley. For
Attention: Ms V Tidikwe
Durban Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner Dr Pixley
Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban. For Attention: Ms NS Nxumalo
Bloemfontein Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works, P/Bag X 20605, Bloemfontein, 9300 or Hand Delivered to 18 President
Brandt Street, Bloemfontein, 9300. For Attention: Mr D Manus
Mthatha Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works, Private Bag X5007, Sutherland Street, Mthatha 5099 or Hand Deliver
at 29 Sutherland Street, PRD II Building, 5th Floor, Mthatha. For Attention: Ms
N Mzalisi
Mmabatho Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X120, Mmabatho 2735, or hand deliver:
810 Corner Albert Luthuli Drive and Maisantwa Street. Unit 3, Mmabatho. For
Attention: Mr. T. Oagile
Gqeberha Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works, Private Bag X 3913, North End, Port Elizabeth, 6056. Hand delivery:
Room 430, Corner. Hancock & Robert Street, North End, Port Elizabeth, 6056.
For Attention: Ms S Mafanya/ Ms. P Buwa
Polokwane Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of Public
Works Private Bag X9469, Polokwane, 0700 or Hand deliver at 78 Hans van
Rensburg Street, Old Mutual Building, 1st Floor, Polokwane. For Attention: Mr.
NJ Khotsa
Johannesburg Regional Office: The Regional Manager, Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X3 Braamfontein, 2017 or Hand Deliver to No 78
Corner De Beer and Korte, Braamfontein, 2017. For Attention: Mr M Mudau
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026 at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
92
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https: www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-entry
programme/.All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Note: For
emailed applications, please submit a Single PDF document or One
Attachment per application to the email address designated on the specific
position. Kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments should not
exceed 15MB. It remains the candidate’s responsibility to ensure that their
application is successfully submitted using the required single pdf document.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/157 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2026/164
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service).
CENTRE : Kimberly Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Human
Resource Management, Human Resource Training and Development, Public
Management, Public Administration, Management Services, Labour Relations
or related. A relevant functional experience in Human Resources Management
at a Junior managerial level (Assistant Director equivalent). Valid driver’s
licenses. Knowledge: Human Resource Management Policies. Human
Resources Systems and Procedures. Performance Management. Project
Management. Public Service Act, Regulations and Resolutions. Recruitment
and Selection Strategies. Code of Remuneration. All Labour Legislations. Code
of good conduct in the Public Service. Departmental Policies and Procedures.
Batho Pele principles. Human Resource Management Practices and Systems.
Skills: Management. Interpersonal. Communication (Verbal and Written).
Computer literacy. Negotiation. Presentation. Report writing. People
Management. Problem solving. Decision making skills. Working knowledge
and experience of PERSAL.
DUTIES : Manage the Human Resource support services and the implementation of all
the Human Resource policies, procedures and relevant prescripts. Manage the
93
effective implementation of recruitment and selection policy and procedures.
Manage the effective implementation of Performance Management Policy.
Manage the coordination of Human Resource Development interventions and
the implementation of Human Resource Development Policies and Programs.
Manage the administration of service benefits and leave of staff in the province.
Manage the implementation of sound labour relations and matters of mutual
interest. Advise line managers and employees on all HRM related matters.
Manage subordinates. Plan and allocate work accordingly. the implementation
of Human Resource Development Policies and Programs. Manage the
administration of service benefits and leave of staff in the province. Manage
the implementation of sound labour relations and matters of mutual interest.
Advise line managers and employees on all HRM related matters. Manage
subordinates. Plan and allocate work accordingly
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Tidikwe Tel No: (053) 838 5351
APPLICATIONS : For Kimberly: email to: RecruitKIM26-08@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/158 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS &
MOBILISATION REF NO: 2026/165
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year relevant tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF
6) in Communication Science/Media studies or Journalism or Marketing.
Relevant years’ experience at supervisory level. relevant years functional
experience in internal communications, web (online) content management,
media/public relations, and/or communication services. Knowledge:
Departmental Policies and Procedures, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Basic knowledge of all legislations, Project Management, Batho Pele
Principles. Skills: Extensive Knowledge in Internal communications and
practices. Planning and Organising, Interpersonal, Computer literacy,
Communication Skills, Problem solving skills, Listening and observation,
Negotiation skills, and Leadership skills. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide internal communication services for staff members. Make use of
communication platforms such as the intranet, website, email, exclaimer, MS
Teams, MS Sharepoint, and other MS Office platforms to communicate internal
messages. Develop content to be used in internal publications, posters and
email banners. Proof-read and edit articles for internal publications and
posters. Source out, develop and disseminate content for email banners,
posters and publications. Create, develop and manage online content for
intranet, website and social media. Manage and mentor interns and junior staff
in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Motlhabane Skade Tel No: (012) 406 1835
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office (Pretoria): email to: Recruitment26-32@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/159 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DESIGN AND JOB
EVALUATION REF NO: 2026/166
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year relevant tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF
6) in Management Services/ Work Study/ Operations Management / Industrial
Psychology. Relevant years’ experience on supervisory level within the
Organisational Design field; Job evaluation Certificate. Knowledge: Public
Service Regulations, Public Services Act, PFMA, Other relevant legislations;
Organisational Design; Job Evaluation System and Processes; MPSA
Directives; Policy development. Skills: Advanced communication (verbal and
written); Problem Solving; Analytical Thinking; Decision Making; Sound
Organisational; Interpersonal; Planning and Organising; Technical Report
Writing; Project Management; Relationship Management; Negotiation;
Motivational and People Management skills.
DUTIES : Develop and implement organisational design and job evaluation policies and
guidelines that support high performing organisation. Interpret DPWI strategic
goals, annual performance plans and reports and translate them into
organizational design interventions. Develop and maintain the organisational
structure and ensure alignment to the strategic plans of the department.
Manage organizational design investigations in line with relevant prescripts.
Implement and maintain job evaluation system and processes. Ensure jobs
94
within the organisation are clearly described and aligned to the departmental
objectives. Conduct regular audit on the organisational structure and
recommend changes to make the organization more effective. Develop and
maintain structural changes, Job descriptions and Job Evaluation databases.
Implement change management interventions. Conduct workshops to create
awareness on OD interventions. Manage and develop employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mahlatjie Tel No: (012) 406 1289
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office (Pretoria): email to: Recruitment26-33@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/160 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: ACQUISITION– INFRASTRUCTURE
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria) Ref No: 2026/167 A (X1 Post)
Kimberly Regional Office Ref No: 2026/167 B (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Supply Chain
Management/ Purchasing Management/ Business Management/ Economics/
Finance / Administration / Management Sciences. Relevant work experience
in Procurement / Supply Chain Management. Experience in Construction or
Infrastructure Procurement will be an added advantage. Knowledge of Supply
Chain Management Framework, procurement related legislation and
regulations, including the Public Finance Management Act, Code of Conduct
for Supply Chain Management Practitioners, Treasury Regulations and
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, CIDB Act, CIDB Regulations
and CIDB Practice Notes and Guides. Understanding of government
procurement systems and processes within the built environment is essential.
Good verbal and written communication skills, the ability to manage
confidential information, advanced interpersonal and negotiation skills,
problem solving skills, decision making skills and computer literacy are critical
competency areas. The ability to work and deliver under pressure and within
tight time frames is essential.
DUTIES : Execute, facilitate, support supervise, and performance manage the following
SCM functions - Demand: Conduct needs assessments by collecting and
analyzing relevant data, categorizing commodities and confirming availability
of funds, Coordinate and collate business/line functions’ and Regional inputs
for procurement plans, Conduct a market and industry analysis,
Identify/implement preference points system and appropriate goals per
commodity in terms of preferential procurement policy objectives, Oversee;
coordinate and advise on the process of drafting specifications/terms of
reference and special conditions of contract. Acquisitions: ensure that the
bid/quotation processes are compliant and fully executed within the requisite
legislative and regulatory frameworks and stipulations. Provide and account for
SCM administrative and technical support to ALL Bid Committees, systems and
related structures. Ensure that procurement source documents are verified,
standard bidding documents are compiled, captured and authorized in
accordance with departmental policies and procedures and compliant with
applicable legislative requirements, SCM Performance Reporting: Consolidate
monthly Head Office and Regional Offices’ inputs to produce SCM
performance reports against the Annual Performance Plan, Collate data;
prepare reports and presentations for management use, Monitor and report on
BBBEE/Preferential Procurement spending in terms of the Department’s
targets and report on a weekly/monthly basis on performance against the
Procurement Plan. Risk Management: participate, support and provide
assistance in the conduct of the annual SCM Risk Assessment and
development of the SCM risk universe, response plan and quarterly
strategic/operational risk reports. Regularity Audit Support: Coordinate Internal
and External Audit engagement processes, steer the SCM response process
and provide analysis of audit queries, management responses and Audit
conclusions. Ensure timeous reporting to Treasury and Auditor General (AG).
Perform any other assigned duties in relation to the implementation of the
Supply Chain Management system of the PMTE/DPWI.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Mr. V Baliso Tel No: (012) 406 1540
For Kimberly M Allen Tel No: (053) 838 5245
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office (Pretoria): email to: Recruitment26-34@dpw.gov.za
For Kimberly Regional Office: email to: RecruitKim26-14@dpw.gov.za
95
POST 13/161 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: ACQUISITION – INFRASTRUCTURE REF
NO: 2026/168 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENS : A Minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Supply Chain
Management/ Purchasing Management/ Business Management/ Economics/
Finance / Public Administration/ Administration / Management Sciences.
Relevant years of experience in Procurement / Supply Chain Management.
Experience in Construction or Infrastructure Procurement will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management Framework,
procurement related legislation and regulations, including the Public Finance
Management Act, Code of Conduct for Supply Chain Management
Practitioners, Treasury Regulations and Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act, CIDB Act, CIDB Regulations and CIDB Practice Notes and
Guides. Understanding of government procurement systems and processes
within the built environment is essential. Good verbal and written
communication skills, the ability to manage confidential information, advanced
interpersonal and negotiation skills, problem solving skills, decision making
skills and computer literacy are critical competency areas. The ability to work
and deliver under pressure and within tight time frames is essential.
DUTIES : Execute, facilitate, support, and performance manage the following SCM
functions - Demand: Conduct needs assessments by collecting and analyzing
relevant data, categorizing commodities and confirming availability of funds,
Coordinate and collate business/line functions’ and Regional inputs for
procurement plans, Conduct a market and industry analysis,
Identify/implement preference points system and appropriate goals per
commodity in terms of preferential procurement policy objectives, Oversee;
coordinate and advise on the process of drafting specifications/terms of
reference and special conditions of contract. Acquisitions: ensure that the
bid/quotation processes are compliant and fully executed within the requisite
legislative and regulatory frameworks and stipulations. Provide and account for
SCM administrative and technical support to ALL Bid Committees, systems and
related structures. Ensure that procurement source documents are verified,
standard bidding documents are compiled, captured and authorized in
accordance with departmental policies and procedures and compliant with
applicable legislative requirements, SCM Performance Reporting: Consolidate
monthly Head Office and Regional Offices’ inputs to produce SCM
performance reports against the Annual Performance Plan, Collate data;
prepare reports and presentations for management use, Monitor and report on
BBBEE/Preferential Procurement spending in terms of the Department’s
targets and report on a weekly/monthly basis on performance against the
Procurement Plan. Risk Management: participate, support and provide
assistance in the conduct of the annual SCM Risk Assessment and
development of the SCM risk universe, response plan and quarterly
strategic/operational risk reports. Regularity Audit Support: Coordinate Internal
and External Audit engagement processes, steer the SCM response process
and provide analysis of audit queries, management responses and Audit
conclusions. Ensure timeous reporting to Treasury and Auditor General (AG).
Perform any other assigned duties in relation to the implementation of the
Supply Chain Management system of the PMTE/DPWI.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. V Baliso/ Mr. N Maluleke Tel No: (012) 406 1540 / (012) 406 1099
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office (Pretoria): email to: Recruitment26-35@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/162 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: PROPERTY PAYMENTS
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office Ref No: 2026/169 A (X2 Posts)
Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/169 B (X1 Post)
Johannesburg Regional Office Ref No: 2026/169 C (X1 Post)
Polokwane Regional Office Ref No: 2026/169 D (X1 Post)
Kimberly Regional Office Ref No: 2026/169 E (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Financial Management or related qualification. Relevant years of experience in
the relevant field. Basic understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations and
property related legislations. A valid driver’s license. Computer literacy.
Knowledge of property management processes and systems: SAGE and
96
PMIS, knowledge of property industry, knowledge of property payments,
knowledge of procurement and tender regulations. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Must be prepared to travel. Willing to adapt work
schedule in accordance with office requirements.
DUTIES : Timeous processing of payments of accounts received from municipalities,
service providers and landlords in respect of rates, municipal services and
accommodation leased by the Department. Ensure that all property payments
invoices are countersigned and authorized. Ensure that all payments comply
with related prescripts, delegations and procedures. Provide budget inputs on
property payments and liaise with clients regarding property payments.
Compilation and rendering of accounts to tenants and clients in respect of
accommodation and services provided by the department. Handling of queries
from municipalities, service providers, property owners, tenants and clients.
Monitor and follow up on outstanding balances on relevant accounts. Writing
monthly reports. Assist in capturing of batches and general administration of
the section.
ENQUIRIES : For Kimberly Mr L Botshobana Tel No: (053) 838 5272
For Pretoria Ms. M Vuso Tel No: (012) 310 5111
For Cape Town Mr. B Berends Tel No: (021) 402 2309
For Johannesburg Peter Mongwenyana at (072) 153 0375
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-32@dpw.gov.za
For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-40@dpw.gov.za
For Johannesburg: email to: RecruitJHB26-11@dpw.gov.za
For Polokwane: email to: RecruitPLK26-09@dpw.gov.za
For Kimberly: email to: RecruitKIM26-09@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/163 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: INTERNAL CONTROL
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Nelspruit Regional Office Ref No: 2026/170 A (X1 Post)
Kimberley Regional Office Ref No: 2026/170 B (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Auditing / Financial Management / Supply Chain Management / Accounting.
Appropriate years of experience in Supply Chain Management / Internal
Control / Compliance Management / Auditing / Financial Management /
Accounting. Knowledge of Property Industry, Financial prescripts (GAAP and
GRAP standards), working knowledge of Government Financial systems
(SAGE, ARCHIBUS, PMIS, WCS, LOGIS, BAS), Public Finance and
Management Act, National Treasury Regulations (Directives and guidelines),
ICT Procurement, Supply Chain Management Framework, Skills and personal
attributes: administrative skills, report writing, good communication skills
(written and verbal), interpersonal skills, organising and planning, goal and
solution orientated, assertiveness, people and client orientated, team player,
innovative, ability to work under stressful conditions and meet deadlines,
dedicated, hardworking, ability to communicate at all levels, trustworthy,
attention to detail, ability to adapt in accordance to office requirements.
DUTIES : The effective implementation of internal compliance impacting on Finance and
Supply Chain Management performance. Monitor whether finance and supply
chain objectives are consistent with Government’s broader policy. Ensure that
the Departmental SCM processes are aligned with those standards that
support International best practice. Implement Finance and SCM processes,
Standard Operating Procedure manuals, Delegations documents and identify
opportunities for alignment with legislation. Communicate new prescripts from
National Treasury. Identify and communicate internal control deficiencies.
Identify potential risks. Provide support in the implementation of departmental
loss control system. Manage acceptance of tenders by verifying completeness
and correctness of documentation to ensure legally binding documents on
respective parties. Verify by scrutinizing the bid/ contract documents for
compliance. Perform pre and post audit procedures on bids awarded to identify
instances of non-compliance. Conduct Assessments on reported cases of
financial misconduct. Validate possible non-compliant transactions. Provide
inputs to the report on non-compliant transactions. Compile the disclosure
notes for Irregular Expenditure and Fruitless & Wasteful Expenditure to the
financial statements. Compile monthly registers for Irregular Expenditure and
Fruitless & Wasteful Expenditure. Audit coordination process between Auditor
General and the Department (Main Account and Trading Entity). Receive
information requests and audit queries from auditors and identify responsible
97
branches / units for dissemination. Update records / schedules of requests and
audit queries. Provide information requested by the auditors within agreed
time. Follow up with branches / units on outstanding responses and requested
information. Assist with arranging of Audit Steering Committee meetings and
meetings between branch heads and the auditors. Assist with developing Audit
Action Plan that addresses all the findings raised by auditors. Assist with
inputs/update of the risk register. Provide administrative and supervisory
services to support effective functioning of the sub-directorate. Maintain and
report registers of pre/ post audit transactions and submit to supervisor.
Administer the flow of information in and out of the office. Ensure adherence to
developed and approved internal controls.
ENQUIRIES : For Nelspruit Mr SF Mathikwane Tel No: (013) 753 6322
For Kimberley Mr NA Mushidzi Tel No: (053) 838 5351
APPLICATIONS : For Nelspruit: email to: RecruitNEL26-11@dpw.gov.za
For Kimberly: email to: RecruitKIM26-10@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/164 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: BUDGET
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Kimberley Regional Office Ref No: 2026/171 A (X1 Post)
Nelspruit Regional Office Ref No: 2026/171 B (X1 Post)
CENTRE : Durban Regional Office Ref No: 2026/171 C (X2 Posts)
Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/171 D (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Finance Management or finance related. Relevant years of experience in the
relevant field. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office
requirements Knowledge: Financial prescripts (GAAP and GRAP);
International standards and property industry; Working knowledge of
Government Financial Systems (e.g. PERSAL, PMIS, WCS, LOGIS, BAS) ;
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance Management Act,
National Treasury Regulations (Instruction Notes, directives and guidelines)
and Supply Chain Management Framework; Tender Solutions Suites; ICT
Procurement. Skills and personal attributes: Communication skills both written
and verbal; Interpersonal skills; Administrative skills; Report writing; Problem
solving skills and decision-making skills; Numerical, analytical and financial
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Personal Attributes: Ability to
communicate at all levels; Assertiveness, accuracy and attention to detail;
Dedicated; Hardworking; Ability to work under stressful conditions; Team
player; People and client orientated. Goal and solution orientated; Trustworthy;
Leadership; Valid driver’s license; Willingness to travel and work irregular
hours.
DUTIES : Consolidate and check financial supporting information for planning purposes:
Check and verify the necessary financial supporting documents required for
the strategic and annual performance planning process. Check and verify the
relevant financial information required in the evaluation and development of
business and project plans. Consolidate the supporting information for various
financial planning processes. Participate in the budget preparation process:
Consolidate budget information for the completion of the Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and Estimates National Expenditure (ENE) in
compliance with National Treasury guidelines, Check and verify the monthly
cash flow and adjusted cash flow against the estimates of expenditure/adjusted
estimates of expenditure, Prepare, consult and implement the adjustment
estimate process. Monitor the recording of adjustments on the accounting
system and review the record of supporting documentation. Capture the budget
and adjustments on the accounting system. Assess where rollovers are
required, by reviewing expenditure against budget. Coordinate the Rollover
requests and virement submissions including request for additional funding.
Assess whether the approved rollovers are updated on the accounting system.
Monitor and report on expenditure against the budget: Monitor the capturing of
financial information on the monthly reporting templates. Consolidate, check
and verify the information in the in-year monitoring reports for the department.
Collate financial and non-financial performance information to be included in
the annual report. Collate and capture information on interim and annual
performance reporting templates and compile draft reports required for the
interim and annual performance reporting. Notify responsibility managers on
possible over/under spending. Request monthly /weekly expenditure report on
98
BAS and SAGE to detect any misallocation allocation and ensure journals are
processed for rectification. Liaise with programme managers regarding
monthly expenditure reports analysis and advise accordingly in terms of PFMA.
Provide administration support services to support the effective functioning of
the Directorate: Provide logistical arrangement in the sub-directorate.
Administer the flow of information in and out of the office. Compile schedules,
invoices and financial statements. Prepare administration reports as required.
Adhere to developed and approved internal controls.
ENQUIRIES : For Kimberley Mr. Luthando Botshobana Tel No: (053) 838 5272
For Nelspruit Mr PM Cossa Tel No: (013) 753 6390
For Cape Town Ms. A Bakubaku Tel No: (021) 402 2101
APPLICATIONS : For Kimberly: email to: RecruitKIM26-11@dpw.gov.za
For Nelspruit: email to: RecruitNEL26-12@dpw.gov.za
For Durban: email to: RecruitDBN26-02@dpw.gov.za
For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-41@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/165 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/172 A (X3 Posts)
Durban Regional Office Ref No: 2026/172 B (X3 Posts)
Gqeberha Regional Office Ref No: 2026/172 C (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Financial Management / Accounting/ Cost Accounting or related qualification.
Relevant years of experience in a Financial Accounting environment.
Knowledge of BAS and LOGIS. A valid (Code B or higher) driving license.
Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act, National Department of Treasury
regulations, guidelines and directives, Understanding of Governments financial
delegations, Standard Charts of Accounts (SCOA), Government Budget
systems and procedures, Government Financial Systems, Supply Chain
Management, Financial prescripts (GAAP and GRAP). Skills: Good verbal and
written communication skills; Problem solving skills; Decision making skills;
Numeracy. Personal attributes: Ability to work under stressful situations. Ability
to communicate at all levels. People orientated. Able to establish and maintain
networks. Trustworthy. Assertive. Hard-working. Self-motivated. Ability to work
independently.
DUTIES : Render goods and services expenditure management services - Authorise
payments on BAS, SAGE and LOGIS. Administer suspense Accounts.
Prepare, maintain and update a detailed payment register for all payments
received and processed at Finance. Track and ensure that all payments are
paid in 30 days. Ensure payments are adequately supported (e.g. order
numbers, invoices). Prepare, capture and authorise journals. Prepare and
process related journals. Resolve queries from regions (e.g. re-issues, re-
submissions, recalls and cancellations). Maintain safe and proper document
control for all financial source documents. Prepare monthly reconciliation of
Financial Systems. Attend to queries from Clients, service providers, internal
line functions, Internal Auditors and external Auditors (AGSA). Keep regions
regularly updated. Safekeeping and monitoring of documents in the batch
room. Provide inputs for the Interim and Annual financial statements. Collect
and process information to determine expenditure against budget. Ensue
correct classification in line with GRAP. Respond to audit queries. Provide
administrative and supervisory services to support effective functioning of the
sub-directorate. Supervise the handling of logistical arrangements in the sub-
directorate. Administer the flow of information in and out of the office. Supervise
subordinates and ensure performance management and development.
Prepare administration reports as required. Supervise continuous adherence
to developed and approved internal controls. Provide support and guidance to
line functions in relation to Financial Accounting processes and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : For Cape Town Ms. A Bakubaku Tel No: (021) 402 2101
For Durban Mrs. DC Mngoma Tel No: (031) 314 7018
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-42@dpw.gov.za
For Durban: email to: RecruitDBN26-03@dpw.gov.za
For Gqeberha: email to: RecruitPE26-17@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/166 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: SCM DEMAND MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
99
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office Ref No: 2026/173 A (X1 Post)
Kimberley Regional Office Ref No: 2026/173 B (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Supply Chain Management/Public Procurement /Purchasing Management
/Public Management/Public Administration /Logistics Management /Financial
Management or related. Relevant extensive experience in Supply Chain
Management/ Demand and Acquisition Management. Knowledge of Supply
Chain Management Framework, procurement procedures and regulations.
Knowledge of government procurement systems, tender and quotation
procedures, Supply Chain Management practice notes, PFMA, PPPFA,
Treasury Regulations, B-BBEE, CIDB, Constitution of South Africa Act,
interpersonal, co-ordinating and organizing skills, confidentiality and reliability,
ability to work under tight deadlines and pressure. Good communication skills
(verbal and written). Computer literacy, Valid driver’s Licence.
DUTIES : Provide admin support in the research and needs analysis for the Department.
Collect and collate information for the Departmental Annual Procurement Plan.
Provide support in the process of drafting specifications/terms of reference and
Review Specifications and Terms of Reference (TOR) received. Provide
secretariat support to the relevant Committees by Compiling accurate minutes
of the proceedings of Bid Committees meetings and general admin. Implement
Supply Chain Management policy and ensure that all procurement of goods or
services is in accordance with relevant delegations and directives. Ensure that
tender/ quotation documents comply with standard operating procedures
(SOP). Keep correct records on SCM committee decisions in a form of minutes.
Provide information for quarterly and annual reports. Provide information on
Audit queries. Review receipting of goods and services rendered. Assist Head
of the Unit with all Procurement related functions and also perform any other
duties in relation to the implementation of SCM policies.
ENQUIRIES : For Bloemfontein Ms. MD Mabuso Tel No: (051) 408 7444
For Kimberley Ms GJ Aysen Tel No: (053) 838 5221
APPLICATIONS : For Bloemfontein: email to: RecruitBLOEM26-19@dpw.gov.za
For Kimberly: email to: RecruitKIM26-12@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/167 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: UTILISATION AND CONTRACT
ADMINISTRATION
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office Ref No: 2026/174 A (X1 Post)
Mthatha Regional Office Ref No: 2026/174 B (X1 Post)
Mmabatho Regional Office Ref No: 2026/174 C (X1 Post)
Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/174 D (X3 Posts)
Johannesburg Regional Office Ref No: 2026/174 E (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Real Estate Management/ Property related qualification. Relevant experience
in the field. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Public Finance Management
Act. Financial administration. Procurement directives and procedures.
Programme and project planning. Market research. Property economics.
Reporting procedures. GIAMA. Property Law. BBBEE. Treasury Regulations.
The PIE Act. Report writing. Skills: Accounts and numeric skills. Analytical
thinking. Communication skills. Interpersonal skills. Problem solving skills.
Organising and planning skills. Goal and solution orientated. Assertiveness.
People and client orientated. Innovative. Ability to work under stressful
conditions. Hard working. Ability to communicate at all levels. Must be prepared
to travel. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office
requirements.
DUTIES : Provide administration support to achieve an optimal utilisation of state
properties: Administer cost determinations and verifications. Report on
unlawful occupations and facilitate the clearing of state land. Introduce
available properties to potential clients. Investigate the utilisation potential of
state properties: Undertake site visits and conditions surveys to determine
utilisation potentials. Assess the provisions of and remove restrictive conditions
from title deeds regarding the utilisation of s Render general administrative
support: Prepare and disseminate information to appropriate employees
regarding contract status. Maintain the filing system with a file for each contract
that includes original contract, all correspondence, changes/deviations,
amendments, clarifications and payment schedules. Facilitate contractor
meetings. Prepare all documentation to resolve disputes. Facilitate the
100
rezoning of properties.
ENQUIRIES : For Pretoria Mr. ST Tshilwane Tel No: (012) 310 5127
For Mthatha Ms. N Twatwa Tel No: (047) 502 7019/(047) 502 7106
For Mmabatho Mr. K.E Sibanda Tel No: (018) 386 5211
For Cape Town Ms. M Rapudi at (066) 261 1047
For Johannesburg Ms F Khoza (JHB) Tel No: (011) 713 6079
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-33@dpw.gov.za
For Mthatha: email to: RecruitMTH26-13@dpw.gov.za
For Mmabatho: email to: RecruitMBT26-10@dpw.gov.za
For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-43@dpw.gov.za
For Johannesburg: email to: RecruitJHB26-12@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/168 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS AND LEASING
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office Ref No: 2026/175 A (X1 Post)
Mthatha Regional Office Ref No: 2026/175 B (X1 Post)
Mmabatho Regional Office Ref No: 2026/175 C (X2 Posts)
Polokwane Regional Office Ref No: 2026/175 D (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Property Management, Real Estate, Property Law or related qualification.
Appropriate experience in Real Estate or Property Acquisition. Computer
literacy. Knowledge and understanding of government procurement processes,
contractual policies and procedures. Understanding of the property market and
its trends. Understanding of the derivatives of forms of acquisition of property
(expropriation, common law and prescriptions etc) negotiation skills. A valid
driver’s licence is a must have. Willingness to travel extensively.
DUTIES : Procure leased fixed properties or rights in fixed properties to be utilised by
client departments, Keep track of the property market and its trends. Negotiate
property purchases. View tendered or identified properties. Negotiate lease
terms with Landlords and manage signing of lease agreements. Do site
inspections to ensure optimal utilisation of leased buildings. Manage lease
renewals to ensure that leases are renewed in time. Attend to both clients and
landlords complaints in leased buildings. Perform general administrative duties
within the office.
ENQUIRIES : For Gqeberha Ms A Meyer Tel No: (041) 408 2067
For Mthatha Ms. P Ngomane Tel No: (012) 492 3337
For Mmabatho Ms. J Setlhoke Tel No: (018) 386 5223
For Polokwane Ms M.B Lekgoathi Tel No: (015) 291 6411
APPLICATIONS : For Port Elizabeth: email to: RecruitPE26-18@dpw.gov.za
For Mthatha: email to: RecruitMTH26-14@dpw.gov.za
For Mmabatho: email to: RecruitMBT26-11@dpw.gov.za
For Polokwane: email to: RecruitPLK26-09@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/169 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/176 A (X3 Posts)
Pretoria Regional Office Ref No: 2026/176 B (X1 Post)
Kimberly Regional Office Ref No: 2026/176 C (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Public Administration/Public Management/ Project Management or related
qualification. Experience in Office Administration/ Project Administration field.
Computer literacy (MS Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and Outlook). Proficiency in
English as business language i.e. verbal communication, report writing, letter
writing and data capturing. Knowledge of Office management and
administration, Reporting procedures, Project administration, Project principles
and methodologies, Knowledge of legal compliance, PFMA, SCM and National
Treasury Regulations. Ability to work independently. Knowledge of WCS would
be an advantage.
DUTIES : Monitor and administer construction projects claims and payments: - Collect/
receive invoices from Registry Services. Capture invoice on Re-a-Patala
system. Forward the invoice to the relevant stakeholders. Identify
discrepancies related to payment certificates. Update payments on WCS. Keep
the Project Manager(s) abreast with the budget adjustments as required.
Attend, respond and redirect enquiries related to the project invoices and
payments. Updating of WCS on daily basis. Provide projects administrative
101
support services to the Chief/Construction Project managers: Administer office
correspondence, documents and reports. Monitor, update and maintain the
WCS and Re-a-patala database. Disseminate status reports on the
development of the project. Handle queries from consultants and contractors.
Liaise with stakeholders relevant to the office. Attend to audit queries. Render
general clerical support services to the component: - Provide supply chain
clerical support services. Monitor the communication and administer the flow
of information and documents in the office. Maintain the filing system and
records for projects documents and the unit where required. Maintain a leave
register for the component. Provide financial administration support services.
Capture an Render secretariat and logistical support service to the Committees
and internal and external meetings: Arrange meetings and workshops for the
unit with internal and external stakeholders. Prepare and type documents
presentations and reports; Draft agenda and record minutes/decisions.
Communicate to relevant role-players and follow-up on progress made.
Compile submissions and reports. Ensures that travel arrangements are well
coordinated. Complete and submit S&Ts forms’, update component
expenditure. Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : For Kimberly S Cosa Tel No: (053) 838 5356/079 516 9085
For Cape Town Mrs. R Davids Tel No: (021) 402 2047
For Pretoria Mr L Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 492 3470/ Mr T Masina Tel No: (012)
310 5254
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-44@dpw.gov.za
For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-34@dpw.gov.za
For Kimberly: email to: RecruitKIM26-15@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/170 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: IMMOVABLE ASSET REGISTER
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Mmabatho Regional Office Ref No: 2026/177 A (X1 Post)
Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/177 B (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Commerce, Real Estate Management, Project Management, Business
Administration, Asset Management or equivalent qualification. Appropriate
relevant experience in Property/Immovable Asset Register Management.
Experience in State land administration and verification of immovable assets
(land and buildings) or related. Effective communication skills. Good report
writing skills. Computer literacy. Negotiation Skills. Decision Making Skills.
Excellent Interpersonal skills. Ability to work under pressure, high level of
reliability and deadline driven. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Carry out the physical verification of immovable assets. Conduct and
administer physical verification of immovable assets in line with IAR verification
support tools. Identify and record improvements to state property in IAR.
Correctly capture disposals in the IAR. Participate in the vesting of land parcels
and endorsements of Title Deeds. Provide admin support for Immovable Asset
Register projects. Ensure the safekeeping of all project documentation. Provide
administrative support services to Immovable Asset Register Sub-Unit.
ENQUIRIES : For Mmabatho Mr. S Sokhela Tel No: (012) 406 1143
For Gqeberha Mr. ZDL Twala Tel No: (041) 408 2072
For Cape Town Ms. L Mahlombe at (066) 170 2219
APPLICATIONS : OR Mmabatho: email to: RecruitMBT26-12@dpw.gov.za
For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-45@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/171 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: ACCOUNTS PAYABLES REF NO: 2026/178
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Financial Management or related qualification, with relevant experience in the
field. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act 1999 and Treasury
Regulations. Good Communication Skills, Computer Literacy and ability to
work under pressure. Knowledge of BAS/SAGE, PERSAL and LOGIS. PMIS
and WCS will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Capturing and authorization of payments on various transversal systems.
Capture journals on BAS/SAGE, check payments for correctness. Capture
inputs in the preparation of interim and annual financial statements. Update the
30-days payment report and render financial support to line function. Attend to
102
queries from internal and external clients. Manage suspense accounts and
prepare monthly reconciliations between business systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Mabuso Tel No: (012) 310 5929
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-35@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/172 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PROVISIONING REF NO: 2026/179
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Kimberley Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Supply Chain Management, Finance or Procurement or public Administration
or related qualification. related supply chain experience. Knowledge: Database
management; monitoring and evaluation theory, methodology and systems;
supply chain management; procurement management. Thorough knowledge
and understanding of government procurement systems and relevant
legislation; built environment industry. Skills: Good verbal and written
communication skills; basic numeracy; statistical skills. Ability to work under
stressful situations; ability to communicate at all levels; ability to work
independently. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office
requirements.
DUTIES : Conduct needs assessments for the compilation of the Departmental Annual
Procurement Plan; Liaise with relevant units to submit procurement plans;
Collect and collate information from the relevant units; Check if the submitted
information is accurate and complete; Liaise with relevant units for necessary
follow-ups; Liaise with Finance regarding the availability of budget; Consolidate
into procurement plan and table for approval by the accounting officer; Maintain
complete and accurate requisition register-: Keep all records of end user
procurement requirements in the Requests Register; Update the relevant data
base. The provision of secretariat services to the relevant Committees -:
Arrange committee meetings with all role-players; prepare attendance register,
declaration of interest and signature documents; record and keep minutes;
Attend to related queries; Receive and check all submissions to SCM
committees. Check compliance on submissions to SCM committee; Keep
correct records on decisions; Distribute adjudicated submissions to relevant
units.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GJ Aysen Tel No: (053) 838 5221
APPLICATIONS : For Kimberly: email to: RecruitKIM26-13@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/173 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: PROPERTY DISPOSALS REF NO: 2026/180
Real Estate Management Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Town and Regional Planning, Property Law, Real Estate and/ or Property
Studies/Public Administration or Law Degree; Appropriate experience within a
property management environment. Knowledge of Department policies,
procedures and processes regarding the disposals of State Immovable Assets
will be added advantage. Sound knowledge and understanding of State Land
Disposals Act, Government Immovable Asset Management Act, Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Management, Broad-Based Black Economic
Empowerment. Supply Chain Management and treasury Regulations. Good
communication (verbal and written) skills and the ability to communicate at all
levels. Good analytical, planning, organizing and financial management skills.
High levels of computer proficiency. Ability to work within diverse team, working
extended hours and the willingness to travel extensively is necessary. Must
have a valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Conduct research to obtain information for the disposal of property and the
compilation of reports. Conduct site inspections, Prepare information to be
presented at the Provincial State Land disposals and Vesting Committee
(PSLDVC) to support disposal of property. Implement the disposal process in
terms of property donation, Servitude, removal of restrictive condition, long
term lease. Provide admin support in redressing of the property ownership
problem through Land Reform. Liaise with Regional Land claims Commission
to check for claims against property to be disposed. Prepare submission to
obtain concurrence from Minister of Rural Development and Land Reform.
Prepare submission to obtain approval from Minister of National Department
103
of Public Works & Infrastructure (NDPWI). Administer financial processes on
the disposal of fixed assets. Keep an accurate Property Disposal
documentation. Liaise with land owners and other stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Nyali Tel No: (021) 402 2171
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-46@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/174 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: SCM ACQUISITIONS REF NO: 2026/181
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification/ National Diploma (NQF level 6) in
Supply Chain Management/ Procurement / Public Management or
Administration / Logistics Management / Financial Management / Business
Management / Accounting with relevant extensive years of experience in
Acquisitions Management / Supply Chain. Knowledge of Government
procurement procedures and regulations. Knowledge of government
procurement systems, tender and quotation procedures, Supply Chain
Management practice notes, PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury Regulations, B-BBEE,
CIDB, Constitution of South Africa Act and Procurement delegations. High level
of computer literacy, interpersonal, co-ordinating and organizing skills,
confidentiality and reliability, ability to work under tight deadlines and pressure.
Good communication skills (verbal and written). Drivers license.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be performing the following duties: Implement
Supply Chain Management policy and ensure that all procurement of goods or
services is in accordance with relevant delegations and directives, Review
Specifications and Terms of Reference (TOR) received, and Bid Registers,
invite tenders and update the tender register, ensure compliance with SCM
legislation and policies, Perform and facilitate all tender/ quotations
administration transactions. Compile accurate minutes of the proceedings of
Bid Committee meetings. Ensure advertising of bids on the Government
Tender Bulletin and other relevant media, organizing briefing sessions,
administer opening and closing of bid and quotation box, accurate recording of
bids received and render secretariat services to the Bid Committees (RBSC,
RBEC and RBAC) Maintain electronic and manual filling of bid documents,
Monitor the validity of bids until award stage. Prepare scoring model/ tender
recommendations. Ensure that tender/ quotation documents comply with
standard operating procedures (SOP). Keep correct records on SCM
committee decisions in a form of minutes. Provide information for quarterly and
annual reports. Provide information on Audit queries. Review receipting of
goods and services rendered. Assist Head of the Unit with all Procurement
related functions and also perform any other duties in relation to the
implementation of SCM policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MD Mabuso Tel No: (051) 408 7444
APPLICATIONS : For Bloemfontein: email to: RecruitBLOEM26-20@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/175 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION (GRADE A): ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP REF NO:
2026/182
SALARY : R243 597 per annum, (OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test in Electrical. A valid Driver`s License. Knowledge of
Occupational Health and Safety Act 85, of 1993 and Regulations. Must have
General knowledge of Electrical tools, equipment in the workshop. The
inherent requirement of the job: It will be expected of the incumbent to climb
ladders for inspection, work in confined spaces and perform electrical
maintenance on Government Buildings in relation to electrical works.
DUTIES : The successful candidate must be able to compile material quantities per
project, will be required to maintain all Government Buildings including new
work to government buildings, must be willing to work overtime if and when
required, and compile progress reports on projects and monitor Tradesman Aid
and Learners. Report directly to Artisan Foreman or Chief Artisan. Must have
vast knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act 85 of 1993. It will be
expected of the incumbent to participate in various expeditions including
assisting other Regional Office if needs arise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mashinini Tel No: (051) 408 734
APPLICATIONS : For Bloemfontein: email to: RecruitBLOEM26-21@dpw.gov.za
104
POST 13/176 : ADMIN CLERK: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES (CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office Ref No: 2026/183 A (X1 Post)
Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/183 B (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12/ equivalent qualification.
Computer literacy including Microsoft Office (word, excel, power point). Good
verbal and written communication skills. Basic knowledge of treasury
regulations and financial management, report writing and submissions. Ability
to work under pressure. Good interpersonal relations skills and telephone
etiquette.
DUTIES : Provide general project delivery support. Draft correspondence as required.
Coordinate documentation requirements on multiple concurrent projects. Print,
photocopy and bind documentation folders. Maintain contractor and consultant
database. Co-ordinate audits queries. Co-ordinate the submission of the
monthly PMO report and keep record of PMO’s in filing system. Facilitate the
processing of invoices for consultants, contractors and suppliers. Ensure
compliance with invoicing requirements. Ensure payments authorisations.
Render secretariat support service to the professionals’ committees and
internal meetings. Arrange meetings and workshops for the unit. Prepare and
type correspondence and documents. Render office administration support.
Process forms and documents related to claim advances of staff attached to
the office. Ensures that travel arrangements are well coordinated. Process
subsistence and travel claims. Administrate leave arrangements.
ENQUIRIES : For Pretoria Mr L Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 492 3470/ Mr T Masina Tel No: (012)
310 5254
For Cape Town Mrs. R Davids Tel No: (021) 402 2047
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-47@dpw.gov.za
For Pretoria: email to: RecruitPTA26-36@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/177 : ACCOUNTING CLERK (BATCH CONTROLLER)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mthatha Regional Office Ref No: 2026/184 A (X1 Post)
Cape Town Regional Office Ref No: 2026/184 B (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12/ equivalent qualification. Valid
Driver’s license will serve as added advantage. Knowledge of a financial
environment will be advantages. Knowledge of relevant legislation, regulations
and policies. Sound interpersonal and communication skills, computer literate,
multi-tasked skills, self-driven, result orientated, motivated, meet deadlines and
acceptance of responsibility.
DUTIES : Reporting to the State Accountant the incumbent of this position will take
responsibility for: The main responsibility of this post relates to the safekeeping
and management of documents (Batch Control) including the monitoring and
controlling of the adherence to sound accounting and NPDW practices,
prescribed policies and regulations in all transactions. Monitor and control all
documents relating to the different transversal systems. Ensure correct
allocation of expenditure and revenue. Draw financial and other BAS reports in
support of the activities of the unit. It could be expected of the incumbent to
assist in the budget formulation, compiling of a cash flow budget as well as the
monthly reporting. As well as performing duties related to the cashier’s
functions.
ENQUIRIES : For Mthatha Ms. P Sani Tel No: (012) 492 3122
For Cape Town Nomnandi Ndiyane Tel No: (021) 402 2108
APPLICATIONS : For Mthatha: email to: RecruitMTH26-15@dpw.gov.za
For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-48@dpw.gov.za
NOTE : Practical exercise/ test will form part of the selection process
POST 13/178 : ADMIN CLERK: WORKS MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2026/185
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mthatha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12/ equivalent qualification. Must
have Knowledge computer literacy (word processing, spreadsheets, and
presentation), Reapatala, Archibus, Wox4u and papertrail. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Basic Knowledge of public finance act, Accruals,
105
report writing and submissions. Sound general office administrative and
organizational skills. Ability to work under pressure, independently and to be
trustworthy. Good interpersonal relations skills and basic numeracy. Willing to
adapt work schedule in accordance with office requirements. Three year
qualification (NQF Level 6) in administration qualification as recognized by
SAQA will serve as an advantage.
DUTIES : Ensure co- ordination and record complaints. Ensure all complaints are
recorded and attended to. Approve complaints on Archibus System. Update
the status on Worx4u system using quotations. Capture quotation on the
spread sheet. Follow up on quotations from work managers. Check quotation
versus the complaint and calculations. Administer and capture payments.
Capture approved fund on the system and forward to SCM for Order. Follow
up on outstanding orders to be issued from SCM. Compile Accruals. Compile
415 forms with the reports and for forward to works managers. Receive 415
from control works manager forward to delegated Authority for fund approval.
The incumbent will be responsible to perform office administrative activities and
liaise with stakeholders relevant to the office. Prepare documents for meetings,
presentations and reports and organize office logistical matters. General
receptionist and make required transport, travel and accommodation
arrangements. correspondence, documents and reports, draft and type
correspondence and documents. Manage the flow of information and
documents in the office and the communication to and from the office.
Processing of forms and documents related to claims, payments, invoices and
consultant fees relevant to office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mpukane Tel No: (047) 502 7040
APPLICATIONS : For Mthatha: email to: RecruitMTH26-16@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/179 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT SERVICES REF
NO: 2026/186
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. No experience required.
Advanced communication (verbal and written) Sound organisational skill, Good
people skill, Language skills, Ability to communicate well with people at
deferent levels, Basic numeracy, Interpersonal skills, Office administration and
organisational skills, Planning and organising, Ability to act with tact and
discretion. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office
requirements.
DUTIES : Record, organise, store, capture and retrieve correspondence and data.
Update registers and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies
and receive or send facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type basic letters and/or other correspondence when required.
Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing register of the component. Liaise
with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and
services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of
standard office items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the
asset register of the component. Assist with ordering of material and equipment
from suppliers. Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation. Capture
and update expenditure in component. Check correctness of subsistence and
travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval. Handle telephone
accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Gqibela Tel No: (021) 402 2315
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-49@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/180 : REGISTRY CLERK: PROVISIONING AND LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT REF
NO: 2026/187
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office Ref No: 2026/187 A (X1 Post)
Kimberly Regional Office Ref No: 2026/187 B (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. No experience required.
Understanding of central registry environment. Completion of a Records
Management or Archives course will be an added advantage. Understanding
106
of records/ documents management, file plan, mail and courier service
procedures. Knowledge of Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA),
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA) National Archives, and Records
Services Act. Knowledge and understanding of Disposal process. Good
communication skills (Written& verbal), Computer literacy in MS Office
software as well as good telephone etiquette are essential. Customer care and
client orientation skills. Ability to work in a team and independently. Ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services: attend to client’s enquiries, handle telephonic
and other enquiries received. Receive all mails, sort, register and dispatch mail.
Distribute notices on registry issues. Postage and Mailing of departmental
documents to various destinations and render courier services. Open and close
files according to record classification system. Filing/ storage, tracing
(electronically/manually) and retrieval of documents and files. Render
administrative support, serving internal and external clients. Manage the
receipt and distribution of documents. Receive, Verify and register invoices on
Reapatala System. Drawing or downloading of Reapatala reports and filling
thereof (electronically and manually) Operate office machines in relation to the
registry function: open and maintain franking machine register, frank post and
record money and update register on a daily basis.
ENQUIRIES : For Bloemfontein Ms. E Venter Tel No: (051) 408 7457
For Kimberly M Allen Tel No: (053) 838 5245
APPLICATIONS : For Bloemfontein: email to: RecruitBLOEM26-22@dpw.gov.za
For Kimberly: email to: RecruitKIM26-16@dpw.gov.za
POST 13/181 : DATA CAPTURER: EPWP REF NO: 2026/188
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12/ equivalent qualification. No
experience required. Knowledge of: Able to work with Microsoft packages.
Good understanding of EPWP. Skills: Computer literacy, planning and
organising, problem solving, analytical thinking, interpersonal skills, report
writing. Personal attributes: Ability to work under stressful situations, Ability to
communicate at all levels, Highly motivated, Trustworthy, Punctuality,
Assertive, Hard-working, Ability to work independently. Prepared to travel,
Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office requirements, willing
to learn.
DUTIES : Collect EPWP projects data from the implementing public entities. Collect or
receive data from the implementing departments, districts and local
municipalities. Draft monthly and quarterly reports of all data collected. Verify
and query missing data and errors observed during data collection. Provide
effective data capturing of EPWP projects collected from implementing bodies.
Capture data into the Integrated Reporting System and Infrastructure
Management Information. Make regular backups of data. Provide information
to components. Offer advice and guidance to public bodies on the process of
capturing data and agree on deadlines for the capturing of required information.
Render administration support to the unit. Monitor the communication and
administer the flow of information and documents in the office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B Nkasela Tel No: (021) 402 2080
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: email to: RecruitCPT26-50@dpw.gov.za
107
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref no. must
appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided the application may not
be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources Management,
Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic Campus, corner of
Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside, Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 06 May 2026
NOTE : The application must include a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications received
that do not comply with this requirement will not be considered. Certified copies
of qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
panel for Senior Management Services (SMS) positions will further recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency-based assessment.
The Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela Programme) as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) must be completed
before an appointment on SMS level can be considered. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. No
appointment on SMS level will take place without the successful completion of
the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. Background
verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part of the
selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. The dtic reserves the right not to fill any
advertised position(s). The dtic is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer, and candidates whose appointment will promote representivity, will
be given preference.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/182 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: MARKETING, COMMUNICATION & MEDIA RELATIONS
REF NO: ODG- MARK&COM 001
(12 months contract post)
Overview: To provide strategic direction and expert advice in the development
of multi-disciplinary marketing and communication programme, policies and
strategies.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : B degree (NQF 7) in Communications/Public Relations/Journalism or
Marketing Management. 5 years of relevant experience at senior management
level in communication / public relations. Key Requirements: Strategic
capability and leadership in developing multidisciplinary marketing and
communication programmes. Experience in media relations, issues/crisis
communications and reputation management. -Experience designing and
overseeing integrated multimedia campaigns including digital, broadcast and
print. Stakeholder engagement and intergovernmental liaison experience.
Financial and people management experience, including budgeting and
managing large teams. Strong policy formulation, research and report writing
skills and knowledge of public service legislative/regulatory framework. Proven
ability to advise executive leadership and manage high level even-ts and
outreach programmes.
-
108
DUTIES : Public and Stakeholder Engagement: Develop and implement a
comprehensive stakeholder engagement and public education framework for
the dtic. Plan and host stakeholder engagement sessions and manage the
dtic's events and outreach programme. Develop and oversee Customer
Relationship Management (CRM) systems and support public appearances of
political principals. Strategic Marketing Positioning: Lead integrated,
multimedia marketing campaigns across digital, broadcast, print, outdoor and
community media platforms. Drive the dtic's international marketing
communication programme in alignment with government initiatives and in
collaboration with GCIS, DIRCO and Brand South Africa. Manage creative
work, media buying and digital communication programmes using clear
performance metrics. Internal Communication: Develop and manage the
implementation of the internal communication plan across the organization.
Provide strategic communication counsel to the Ministry, Director-General and
Executive Board on reputational risks. Oversee interactive sessions between
leadership and employees. Media Relations & Public Relations: Develop and
implement the dtic's media strategy, crisis communication protocols and issues
management framework. Oversee media monitoring, rapid response and
regular reporting on media coverage to top management. Manage the dtic's
reputation and public confidence proactively. Corporate Communication:
Oversee the development and production of all corporate communication and
promotional material (audio-visual and print). Develop the dtic's publishing and
production framework, ensuring all material aligns with the editorial policy, style
guide and Corporate Identity manual. Management of the Chief Directorate:
Provide strategic leadership in the development and execution of the Annual
Performance Plan and Operational Plan. Manage the Chief Directorate's
finances, including a budget of R50 million, procurement, expenditure and
assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
males, Coloured females, White males and persons with disabilities.
POST 13/183 : DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT REF NO: CMSB-137
Re-advertised with the correct key requirements. Applicants who previously
applied need not re-apply and will still be considered.
Overview: To provide strategic leadership, tactical oversight, and operational
management of the Department’s ICT infrastructure environment that enables
the dtic to fulfil its mandate.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification at NQF level 7 in Computer Science, Informatics, Computer
Engineering, or a relevant qualification. 5 years of relevant experience at a
middle/senior managerial level in an ICT environment. Key Requirements:
Senior managerial Experience leading ICT infrastructure, platforms, and
operations. Proven experience managing enterprise servers, storage,
networks (fixed & wireless), telephony, and end user computing. Experience in
capacity planning, performance optimisation, backup, disaster recovery, and
business continuity. Experience managing SL-As, OLAs, and vendor/service
provider relationships (including SITA/GITOC). Experience in infrastructure
configuration, change, incident, and problem management. Experience
preparing technical and strategic inputs for MTEF, business plans, and budget
submissions. Experience managing large ICT programme budgets and assets.
Strong stakeholder engagement with executives, campus tenants, SOEs, and
other government entities. People management experience, including building
technical capability and managing multidisciplinary teams. Knowledge of IT
governance, security standards, Microsoft platform, operating systems, and
system administration.
DUTIES : Strategic Planning & Alignment: Lead multiyear infrastructure strategy and
roadmap; translate strategy into operational plans and KPIs. Provide inputs
into business planning, MTEF and budget pro-cesses; monitor implementation.
Infrastructure Platforms & Technology Management: Manage physical, virtual
and cloud server platforms, storage and databases. Oversee networks,
telephony, collaboration platforms and end user device lifecycle management.
Service Management, Configuration & Performance: Govern configuration
management and infrastructure baselin-es; lead capacity planning and
109
performance optimisation. Manage incident, problem and change processes
and ensure effective backup, DR and business continuity services. Vendor,
SLA & Outsourcing Governance: Define and monitor SLAs/OLAs with external
providers and internal units; manage vendor performance and escalations.
Stakeholder Management: Engage executives, business units, SITA, GITOC,
SSA and campus tenants; prepare infrastructure performance and governance
reports. Directorate Management & Capability Development: Manage financial
resources, assets and human resources of the directorate; promote innovation,
accountability and service excellence.
ENQUIRIES Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African males
and persons with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/184 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SIP AND FILM REF NO: IFB – 042
Overview: To manage and administer the SIP and FILM programme.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 in Economics/ Business Administration, Financial
Administration or related qualification. A minimum of 3-5 years’ managerial
experience in Incentive Administration in both public or private sector
environments. Key Requirements: Demonstrated experience in the evaluation
of applications and claims within an incentive administration environment.
Ability to manage human resources, budgets and assets within a sub-
directorate. Experience in organisational strategic planning, performance and
financial management, Experience in Strategic capability and leadership skills,
communication skills (verbal and written), analytical skills, presentation skills,
organisational planning and customer focus. Strategic Management Project
Management, Financial Management and Computer Literacy (Microsoft Office
Package). Knowledge and understanding of public Service Regulations, Public
Service Act, Public Finance management Act and Treasury Regulations.
Business knowledge of the dtic business. Travel as and when required, and
work overtime as and when required.
DUTIES : Manage the evaluation of applications for SIP and FILM against quality
standard and turns around times. Manage, control and monitor the production,
workflow business processes applications. Contribute effectively, design and
implement internal work processes. Contribute effectively to review programme
guidelines. Provide inputs with regard to business plans. Ensure compliance
with the guidelines. Interaction with customers on their applications. Compare
and verify accuracy of figures. Risk management to prevent fraudulent
approvals/activities. Verify company information. Attend and resolve audit
queries. Conduct business site visits. Manage the processing of Claims for SIP
and FILM. Monitor and control the processing of Claims. Receive and assign
Claims documentation received. Monitor the progress of Claims received.
Assess and improve claims processes and procedures to ensure efficiency and
effectiveness. Co-ordinate and ensure reports are completed post conducting
site-inspections. Quality assurance of claims. Manage the Incentive
Programme for SIP and FILM. Compile a report on programme operational
plan, incentive reconciliations, risk registers and service delivery improvement
plans. Asses the performance of the Directorate against business and project
plans and take corrective actions. Compile regular expenditure reporting on the
programme (Monthly reconciliations, quarterly reports). Monitor project
implementation progress of all approved projects for the programme to
minimize contingent liability. Compile claims/reports on request by
management. Provide inputs to the review of the policy/guidelines of the SIP
and FILM Programme. Stakeholder Management. Monitor and ensure
implementation of proper customer care interventions. Provide reporting on
status of Claims (pre and post) to applicants and payments of claim. Provide
advice and support to the external stakeholders on the status of their
applications (approvals/rejections). Interact, guide, assist and intervene to
assist clients on their applications and claims queries. Sub directorate
Management. Manage collation of inputs into the quarterly and annual reports,
business plans and targets. Monitor financial resources and assets of the unit.
Manage the human resources of the sub-directorate. Manage the process of
110
reporting on financial and operational risk. Ensure that the performance
management process are finalized within the prescribed time frames.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
Males, Coloured Females, Coloured Males, White Males and persons with
disabilities.
POST 13/185 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS REF NO: EDP&OIB
– 054
Overview: To manage EMIA Group Missions (Outward and Inward) in
accordance with the approved EMIA guidelines and National Export Strategy.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package).
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Economics/
International Trade/ Business Management/ Public Administration/
Development Studies or a relevant qualification. Minimum: 3-5 years
managerial experience in export promotion-related programmes or support
services in private or public sector. Key Requirements: Managerial experience
in export promotion or market access programmes. Experience managing
outward and inward trade missions Experience in recruitment, application
assessments, selection and recommendation of participants including
adjudication processes. Customer service and client support experience.
Stakeholder management with diplomatic missions, export councils and
industry bodies. Monitoring and evaluation of market access initiatives. Data
analysis for performance reporting. Report writing and presentation skills.
Project management skills and training experience. Advanced Microsoft Office.
Knowledge of PFMA, Supply Chain Managements policies and procedures
including budget monitoring. Willingness to travel domestically and
internationally.
DUTIES : Manage the EMIA Group Missions Calendar. Engage stakeholders,
consolidate inputs and present the Group Missions Calendar for approval;
manage calendar amendments and communications. Manage the EMIA Group
Mission Programme. Manage end-to-end mission application, compliance
verification, adjudication preparations and presentation to the Adjudication
Committee. Manage Logistics & Operations for EMIA Group Mission. Oversee
allocation of EMIA benefits, timely issuance of travel/accommodation and
procurement processes for missions. Monitoring, Evaluation & Reporting.
Develop M&E frameworks, compile evidence-based performance reports and
recommend EMIA guideline amendments. Stakeholder Engagement. Build and
maintain strategic relationships with clients, diplomatic missions and industry
to enhance market access. SubDirectorate Management. Manage human and
financial resources, performance management and operational reporting for
the subdirectorate. -
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuk-o Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
Males, Coloured Females and White Males and persons with disabilities.
POST 13/186 : BRANCH FINANCIAL ADVISOR REF NO: SID&ET-004
Overview: To provide financial, procurement advisory support and reporting
services to Management in Investment and Spatial Industrial Development
(ISID) Branch.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : B Degree (NQF 7) in Finance/ Business Administration / Supply Chain
Management or equivalent qualification. 3-5 years’ Managerial experience in
Financial Management in the Public / Private Sector. Key Requirements:
Proven experience in public sector financial management, including PFMA and
Treasury Regulations compliance. Experience providing financial advisory
services and financial reporting inputs to senior management. Experience in
budgeting, cash flow projections and budget monitoring (including
BAS/LOGIS/SCOA familiarity). Experience in supply chain management
processes, procurement administration and tender/contract support.
Experience in expenditure control, payments administration, S&T claims,
111
payroll certification and petty cash reconciliation. Experience preparing inputs
for Annual Financial Statements and annual reports and responding to audit
queries. Ability to prepare and analyse management accounts, explain
variances and advise on contingent liabilities. Strong Excel skills (data
analysis, pivot tables, financial modelling) and computer literacy. Experience
managing donor-funded projects and tracking disbursements/MOUs a plus.
Project management experience, including planning, monitoring and reporting
on deliverables. Stakeholder management skills, including liaising with
National Treasury, Auditor-General and internal branches. Supervisory
experience and ability to manage, coach and develop a small team. Excellent
report writing, verbal communication and presentation skills.
DUTIES : PFMA & Treasury Compliance. Ensure adherence to delegations of power and
Treasury/departmental policies on all payments and transactions. Verify
supporting documentation, completeness of records and correctness of
calculations for transactions. Advise management on PFMA/SCM compliance
and facilitate training interventions for branch staff. Coordinate responses to
audit queries and compile management comments and supporting documents.
Financial Reporting & Analysis. Provide accurate inputs to management
accounts and the Annual Financial Statements/Annual Report. Analyse branch
performance, explain variances and advise on contingent liabilities. Prepare
information and inputs for portfolio committee or senior management
presentations as required. Budgeting & Cash Flow Management. Cost and
verify budget requirements, prepare budget breakdowns and motivations.
Project and verify cash flows, monitor spending against cash flows and report
on cash flow status. Advise on budget reallocations and ensure spending aligns
with approved cash flows and business plans. Budget Allocations & Control.
Monitor expenditure according to projections and follow up on over/under
spending areas. Prepare budget re-allocation requests and submit budget
breakdown summaries per unit/directorate. Support accurate capturing of
budget breakdowns on BAS and ensure SCOA compliance. Supply Chain
Management & Procurement Support. Facilitate procurement processes,
ensure correct procurement routes are followed and advise on tender
specifications. Administer stores and orders, monitor committed funds and
assist with asset verification and movement reporting. Provide SCM advisory
support during supplier selection, adjudication and contract administration.
Expenditure Control & Payments Administration. Confirm availability of funds,
verify BAS reports and ensure correctness of expenditure and commitments.
Administer payment processes, verify SCOA codes and initiate re-allocations
where required. Manage S&T claims processing, payroll certification checks
and petty cash reconciliations. Track and report on revenue collection and
recovery of staff cellphone/private call costs. Donor Funding & Special
Projects. Track donor-funded projects, disbursements as per MOUs and report
on donor funding status. Provide financial oversight for project-specific
allocations and ensure compliance with donor conditions. Stakeholder
Engagement & Advisory. Liaise with Management Accounts, National Treasury,
Auditor-General and other stakeholders on financial matters. Provide advisory
services to branch officials and support responses to external stakeholders and
audit bodies. Unit Management & Administration. Supervise staff, coordinate
inputs for business plans, monitor performance and oversee unit
administration. Manage financial resources and assets of the unit and
contribute to operational planning and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012)394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to Coloured
Females, Coloured Males, White Males and persons with disabilities.
INTERNSHIP 2026/28
APPLICATIONS : For the Internship can be submitted: Via e-mail to intern2026@thedtic.gov.za
(Field of study below must be used as reference and must appear in subject-
line – Eg. Intern2026 – Public Management.), by post to The Director: Human
Resources Management, Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to
the dtic Campus, corner of Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside,
Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 06 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must include only the completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
112
www.gov.za/documents and a detailed Curriculum Vitae which must contain
details of the final year modules/subjects completed and passed. Applications
that do not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will
be disqualified. Certified copies of Identity Document, Senior Certificate and
the highest required qualification, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview. No late applications will
be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have international
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
All qualifications will be subjected to verification. Correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. The Department of Trade, Industry and
Competition is committed to the achievement of and maintenance of diversity
and equity in employment, especially of race, gender and disability.
OTHER POST
POST 13/187 : INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME 2026/28
Overview: The Department of Trade, Industry and Competition (the dtic) invites
graduates to apply for internship opportunities for a period of 24 months
commencing on 01 July 2026 to 30 June 2028. Through the Internship
Programme, the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition (the dtic) is
committed to providing opportunities for qualifying candidates to gain skills,
knowledge and experience whilst at the same time, positioning themselves for
active and meaningful participation in the labour market. Aspiring Public
Servants, who share the vision of the dtic of a dynamic, industrial, globally
competitive South African economy, characterised by inclusive growth and
development, decent employment and equity and who value intellectual and
operational excellence as well as quality relationships, are encouraged to apply
for this exciting programme.
STIPEND : R7 860.50 per month, A monthly stipend starting in accordance with their
highest qualification at the time of appointment.
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applications are invited from unemployed South African graduates with a
tertiary qualification (NQF level 6 and above) in one of the following fields of
study: 1. Public Management / Public Administration 2. Business Management
/ Business Administration 3. Human Resource Management/Development 3.
Communication / Public Relations 4. Law 5. Software Development 6.
Economics 7. Statistics / Econometrics 8. Agricultural Economics / Forestry
Science 9. Development Studies 10. Accounting / Financial Management /
Cost and Management Accounting 11. Risk Management 12. Internal Auditing
/ Auditing 13. Natural Science (Major in Microbiology / Biochemistry /
Biotechnology / Bioengineering) 14. Mining Engineering / Metallurgy
Commerce 15. Occupational Health and Safety 16. Supply Chain Management
/ Procurement 17. International Politics. Key Requirements: Good
interpersonal skills, professionalism and integrity, ability to work under
pressure, deadline driven. The successful candidates must be analytical and
have high attention to detail. They should have an understanding of
government systems and processes. Ambitious and willingness to learn.
ENQUIRIES : Donald Mathavha Tel No: (012) 394 3864 / 064 850 9379, Teaman Nghunyule
Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / 060 998 0775, Ursula Pitse Tel No: (012)394 1852,
Vusi Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African males
and persons with disabilities.
113
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Department of Transport is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment
equity targets. Preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in
achieving its Employment Equity targets at these specific levels in terms of the Department’s
Employment Equity Plan, therefore White male / female, Coloured male/ female, Indian male / female and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Transport, Private Bag X193, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at
the 159 Forum Building, Cnr Struben and Bosman Street, Pretoria for attention
Recruitment Unit. Room 4034 or email to: Recruitment@dot.gov.za or at e-
recruitment system: recruit.transport.gov.za. Note: email applications must be
sent as one attachment to avoid non-delivery of the email and only quotes the
name of the post you are applying for on the Subject Line as directed on the
post note.
CLOSING DATE : 15 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a completed new Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department, (or obtainable at). Applicants must fill in
full new Z83 form part A, B, C, and D. A recent updated comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
dates). Applicants will submit certified copies of all qualifications and ID
document on the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process; the
logistics will be communicated to candidates prior to the interviews.
Recommended candidates will also be required to attend a Psychometric
Assessments as part of the recruitment process. Recommended candidates
will also be required to generic managerial competency assessment after the
interviews also take a note that National School of Governance (NGS) has
introduce compulsory SMS pre-entry certificate with effect from 01 April 2020
as Minimum Entry Requirements for Senior Management Services (submitted
prior to appointment) and can be accessed through the following link:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The
successful candidate must disclose to the Director-General particulars of all
registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and employment
contract with the Director-General within three months from the date of
assumption of duty. The successful candidate must be willing to sign an oath
of secrecy with the Department. Applicants will be expected to be available for
selection interviews and assessments at a time, date and place as determined
by the Department. An offer letter will only be issued to the successful
candidate once the following has been verified educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. Please
note: Correspondence will only be entered into with short-listed candidates.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/188 : DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF NO: DOT/ HRM/2026/01
(5 Years Fixed Term Contract)
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R2 352 642 per annum (Level 16), all-inclusive package of which 30% may be
structured according to the individual needs plus 10% non-pensionable HoD
Allowance.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF (Level 8) as recognised by SAQA in Civil Engineering /
Transport Economics / Transport and Logistics Management/ Transport
Management/ Maritime Studies / Mechanical Engineering / Law/ Public
Management / Administration / Policy Studies with at least 10 years’ relevant
experience at a senior management level in the transport sector. Certificate of
successful completion of the National School of Government Senior
Management Services Pre-Entry Programme (submitted prior to appointment).
114
Knowledge and Skill: Extensive knowledge in transport management including
policy, legislation, systems and operations. Extensive knowledge of white
paper on National Transport policy. Sound knowledge of the current global
trends and research matters and ability to convert policy into section. The ability
to build and lead high performance teams and drive the national transport
policy, strategy and implementation plans for overall developmental objectives
of the country. The ability to promote good relations with transport
stakeholder’s, social partners and civil society. Strong governance and
administration skills to ensure effective performance and service delivery with
regards to the Departmental obligations in cabinet clusters, parliament, State
Owned Entities and the sector. Extensive knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act. Communication. Financial Management. Strategic
Capability & leadership. People Management & Empowerment. (PME). Project
Programme Management. Client Orientation and Customer focus. Change
Management.
DUTIES : Coordinate and render effective, efficient strategic support and administrative
services to the Minister and Department; Coordinate delivery of the
Department's strategic goals through an integrated programme management
approach. Oversee the provision of effective corporate management service to
the DoT. Oversee the provision of effective financial management services
which are in line with treasury prescripts and prescribed accounting principles.
Oversee the provision of sound internal audit, risk and fraud investigation
services as well as strategic planning and cluster coordination for the
Department. Oversee the integration of cross model transport planning and
facilitate the development and transformation of the transport industry; Ensure
provision of effective research, monitoring and evaluation of modal transport
policies and strategies. Ensure the provision of national innovative research
and development programme, monitor and evaluate the performance of the
transport sector and coordinate the formulation of environmental policies and
strategies. Oversee the facilitation and coordination of the development and
implementation of a safe, reliable and efficient integrated rail network; Oversee
the development and alignment of rail legislation, policies and strategies with
DoT strategic objectives and international norms and standards. Provide
guidance on the development of an integrated transportation network with
sectors in the built environment and economic development. Oversee the
development, maintenance and updating of infrastructure funding and
coordinate funding needs. Provide leadership in the development and
implementation of safe, reliable and integrated road infrastructure and
passenger transport systems; Oversee the alignment of roads public entities
with DoT performance management system. Oversee the regulation of road
safety and traffic management. Provide leadership for the coordination of
planning, development and implementation of a sustainable reliable integrated
road infrastructure network. Provide leadership in coordinating the
development and implementation of safe, economically viable integrated and
reliable air transport and infrastructure; Oversee the development of
internationally competitive regulatory framework for civil aviation. Oversee the
planning and development of an integrated aviation infrastructure and industry
with an effective international and regional regulatory framework. Provide
leadership in coordinating the development and implementation of safe,
economically viable integrated and reliable maritime transport and
infrastructure. Oversee the development and alignment of legislation, policies
and strategies with DoT strategic objectives and international norms. Oversee
the implementation of policy and legislation for safety, security and maritime
environmental protection and participate in the bilateral process as defined.
Provide leadership in coordinating safe, reliable effective, efficient integrated
and environmentally friendly public transport systems; Oversee the
development and maintenance of policy, legislation and regulation and
coordinate and facilitate the implementation thereof. Oversee the
implementation and maintenance of the rural, scholar and non-motorised
transport strategies.
ENQUIRIES : Adv Adam Masombuka Tel No: (012) 309 3888
115
POST 13/189 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: CIVIL AVIATION REF NO: DOT/
HRM/2026/02
Branch: Civil Aviation
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), of which 30% may be structured according
to the individual needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF (Level 8) as recognised by SAQA in Transport and
Logistics Management/ Transport Management/ Transport Economics/ Civil
Engineering / Law/ Aeronautical Engineering/ Business Management/ Public
Management/ Administration/ Policy Studies with 8 years’ experience at a
senior managerial level in the aviation sector. Knowledge: A knowledge and
understanding of the global and regional aviation landscape. A thorough
knowledge and understanding of the South African Civil Aviation including its
regulations, standards, challenges, opportunities and best practices. Thorough
understanding of the role of aviation in the national economy. Thorough
understanding of international civil aviation systems and the role of
international Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). An understanding of regional
initiatives as embodied by African Union (AU) and the new partnership for
Africa’s Development (NEPAD), African Civil Aviation Commission (AFCAC,
SADC, Civil Aviation Committee, SADC Aviation Safety Organisation. Skills
and Competencies; Negotiation and problem skills. Proven leadership and
management skills. Communication. Financial Management. People
Management & Empowerment. (PME). Project Programme Management.
Client Orientation and Customer focus. Change Management.
DUTIES : Manage the development of internationally competitive regulatory framework
for civil aviation; Review, analyse and develop civil aviation policies and
legislation in support of international standards and DoT strategic objective.
Facilitate and manage a competent function that promotes South Africa’s
aviation interests whilst fulfilling its international obligations. Ensure the
provision of aviation economic analysis, regulation and strategies for industry
development; Put in place strategies to manage the development of the
aviation industry and freight logistics. Regulate and direct aviation industry
promotion and capacity development. Ensure effective monitoring and
evaluation of the impact of aviation safety, security and environmental
regulatory framework; Ensure effective implementation of safety and security
regulatory frameworks. Develop and facilitate the implementation of aviation
environmental protection frameworks. Provide strategic and secretariat
services to South African Search and Rescue (SASAR). Represent South
Africa at the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Council;
Participate in council meetings and ensure South Africa’s interests are
protected. Participate in project teams to achieve a multi-disciplinary approach
to meet set objectives of the Department; Manage the planning and or
implementation of projects. Develop methods to monitor projects or area
progress and provide corrective solutions if necessary. Manage the resources
of the Branch; Provide guidance and ensure there is adequate support for and
development of the staff. Ensure compliance with all administrative
requirements, regulations, rules and instructions pertaining to the branch.
ENQUIRIES : Adv Adam Masombuka Tel No: (012) 309 3888
POST 13/190 : DIRECTOR: SECTOR HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
DOT/HRM/2026/19
Branch: Office of The Director-General
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), of which 30% can be
structured according to individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 7 qualification as recognised by SAQA in Human
Resource Development / Human Resource Management / Management of
Training / Industrial Psychology with a minimum of 5 year’s working experience
at a middle/senior management level within the Human Resource
Development environment. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of skills
development and relevant key Human Resource legislations such as the Basic
Conditions Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA), Employment
Equity Act (EEA), the skills Development Act (SDA), Public Service
Regulations, 2016 etc. Knowledge of and application of the PFMA and the
Treasury Regulations; Knowledge of human resource practices and
116
procedures; Knowledge and skills of leaner support; Skills and knowledge of
training coordination; presentation skills; Communication; Financial
Management; Strategic capability & leadership; people management and
empowerment; Project/Programme management; Client orientation and
customer focus; Change management.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation of all capacity development matters between the
department and its stakeholders; Manage the provision of stakeholder
workshops and facilitate the implementation of interventions to address the
skills gaps within the sector; Conduct continuous scooping of skills across
various sub-sector of transport. Manage the planning and implementation of
strategies to address skills in high demand within the transport sector; Manage
the process to identify skills in high demand within the transport sector in
collaboration with the relevant stakeholders; Manage the development of terms
of reference (TOR), Plans, Frameworks and Memorandum of Agreement
(MOA), to address the Skills in High Demand as prioritised by DoT. Manage
the stakeholder relations between the Department of Transport, Sector
Education and Training Authorities (SETAs) and other relevant structures that
have impact on the sector skills development; Manage the representativity of
the department in all TETA Chambers; Manage the coordination of meetings
with departmental representatives serving at TETA and other skills
development structures for feedback and alignment of priories. Manage the
implementation of technical corporations as they relate to capacity
development between DoT and other countries; Manage the collaboration with
DoT Branches to identify skills that need to be developed through international
training programmes, exchange programmes, secondment and other related
intervention. Manage the resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Gcina Tel No: (012) 309 3591
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/191 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FOSAD CLUSTER REF NO: DOT/HRM/2026/16
Branch: Office of the Director-General
Chief Directorate: Strategic Planning and Cluster Coordination
Directorate: Cluster Coordination
Sub-directorate: Cluster Coordination
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Public
Management / Administration / Strategic Planning / Business Management /
Political Science / Policy Studies / Law with a minimum of 3 years’ experience
at a junior management or Assistant Director level in Government’s integrated
governance system. Driver’s license required. knowledge and skills:
knowledge and understanding of Government Integrated System. Knowledge
and expertise of strategic management process in government. Knowledge
and expertise of parliamentary & legislative process. Political awareness and
familiarity with senior government officials and politicians. Analytical skills,
compilation of management reports, communication – verbal & written
communication. Financial management skills. Strategic capability &
leadership. People management & empowerment. Project management skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate cluster participation and inputs into the cluster processes.
Coordinate DoT participation and inputs into cluster processes. Monitor and
evaluate the performance of programmes in relation to Government’s
Programme of Action (PoA) reporting cycle for the Clusters. Providing strategic
support to the Office of the Director-General (with reference to FOSAD Cluster
matters). Collate inputs and reports for all FOSAD (Forum of South Africa
Directors’-General) Cluster. Facilitate the development of strategic priorities for
DoT in liaison with the DoT workstream to be driven within the Economic
Sectors, Investment, Employment and Infrastructure. Development (ESIEID)
Cluster and FOSAD Clusters that DoT participate in (e.g. Justice Crime &
Security (JCPS), International Cooperation, Trade and Security (ICTS).
Manage follow-ups on matters that have a bearing on Clusters, FOSAD –
MANCO decisions. Coordinate the allocation and dissemination of information
with respect to cluster decisions. Coordinate the implementation of cabinet
resolutions. Develop the matrix on matters arising from Cabinet resolutions.
Draft Cabinet memoranda schedule and ensure adherence to the timelines.
117
Provide administrative support to ODG on Cabinet matters. Ensure compliance
on Cabinet Memoranda for submission to Cabinet and Presidency. Render
administrative support to DoT management on cabinet related matters. Liaise
with the Ministry on an on-going basis to ensure continuous compliance with
Cabinet and Cabinet Committees requirements and requests. Participate in
project teams to achieve a multi-disciplinary approach to meet set objectives
of the Department. Manage the planning and or implementation of projects.
Manage project resources, project budget and resource allocation. Manage the
resources of the sub-directorate. Provide guidance and adequate support for
and development of staff. Provide input in the establishment and maintenance
of the governance and administrative system’s continuity within the work of the
Directorate. Ensure management of the budget and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sibongile Maphuthoma Tel No: (012) 309 3980
POST 13/192 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: GENDER DISABILITY YOUTH AND CHILDREN
REF NO: DOT/ HRM/2026/17
Branch: Administration; Office of The Director-General
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA in Psychology / Social
Science / Public Administration / Public Management / Social Work with 3 years
experience at a supervisory or practitioner level in a mainstreaming of Gender,
Disability, Youth and Children projects and programmes. Knowledge And Skill:
A background of mainstreaming of gender, Disability, Youth and Children
projects and programmes; Understanding of the Code of conduct; Knowledge
of the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relation Act and
Public Finance Management Act; Project Management. Communication;
Financial management; Strategic capability & Leadership; people
management & empowerment; Project/programme management; Client
orientation and customer focus; Change management.
DUTIES : Develop, coordinate, facilitate and implement all gender, disability, youth and
children ‘s rights programmes and activities within the department and DoT
entities; Research, revie and draft where necessary policies for gender,
disability youth and children’s programmes within the department. Ensure that
issues of mainstreaming of gender, disability, youth and children are adhered
to in transport policies and programmes, promoting special national
projects/programmes with regard to youth and children in their respective line
functions; Ensure all managers have a thorough understanding of their role in
the implementation of the national gender, disability, youth and children’s rights
programmes. Develop, strategies, operational plans, policies and procedures
for the implementation of gender, disability, youth and children focus
programmes; Ensure policies, processes and practices are constantly
reviewed and executed in line with the needs of the department as well as the
national norms and standard. Participate in national events, outreach
programmes and projects; Ensure the department has representation in the
relevant national events and all other relevant structures (IDC’s child protection
forums, family reference groups, child advisory councils and other relevant
forums as delegated.
ENQUIRIES Ms Mamotsepe Matshwane Tel No: (012) 309 3510
POST 13/193 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FORENSIC INVESTIGATIONS REF NO:
DOT/HRM/2026/18
Branch: Office of The Director-General
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit and Fraud Investigations
Directorate: Forensic Investigations
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 6 qualification in Forensic Investigations / Law /
Auditing / Accounting with 3 years’ experience at supervisory or practitioner
level in the field of forensic investigations. Knowledge and skills: Must have an
extensive knowledge of PFMA and Treasury Regulations. National Anti-
Corruption Strategy and Public Service Code of Conduct. Reporting Writing
and presentation Skills. Must possess analytical and investigation skills.
Certified Fraud Examination (CFE) OR ICFP is recommended. Must have a
valid driver’s licence. Communication – Verbal & Written Communication.
118
Financial Management. Strategic capability & leadership (SCL). People
management & empowerment (PME). Project/Programme Management
(PPM). Client orientation & customer focus.
DUTIES : Investigate fraud detections and promote an anti-fraud culture. Conduct
reactive investigations into cases reported to the Directorate. Prepare
information for use in criminal or civil court cases. Participate in project teams
to achieve a multi-disciplinary approach to meet set objectives of the
Department. Manage the resources of the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Mokgotho Tel No: (012) 309 3713
119
ANNEXURE M
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It should be noted that the
National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. For SMS
positions certain candidates may be required to undergo additional
Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za .The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
120
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/194 : DIRECTOR: SCM GOVERNANCE, MONITORING AND COMPLIANCE REF
NO: S042/2026
Division: Office of The Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
Purpose: To manage the governance, monitoring and compliance with the
SCM governance framework in all spheres of Government.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum of bachelor’s degree
(equivalent to NQF level 7) or Post graduate diploma or equivalent or related
qualification in Supply Chain Management or Financial Management or
Finance or Accounting or Risk Management or Project Management or Legal
or Governance, Monitoring and Compliance or Business Administration or
Business Management or Auditing or Public Administration or Management or
Policy. A certification in SCM principles, Project Management, Governance,
Monitoring and Compliance, Investigation or any similar certification or
equivalent will be an added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a
middle or senior managerial (Deputy Director) level obtained in the broader
Supply Chain Management environment. In-depth knowledge and experience
of the broader public service SCM framework. In-depth knowledge and
experience of the broader public service SCM framework. Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government available as
an online course on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : SCM GM&C Strategy and Policy Management: Manage the development and
maintenance of a national strategy and implementation plan for the
development and dissemination of the SCM monitoring framework. Manage
the research, design, development and maintenance of policies and
dissemination plans for the SCM monitoring framework including the: collection
and management of SCM data; analysis and evaluation of SCM plans and
reports; resolution of non-compliance. Provide input into the development of
SCM-related government policy, norms, standards, frameworks and
guidelines. SCM GM & C Stakeholder Management: Manage government
stakeholder relations to facilitate the establishment of required Organisational
and governance structures and strategic networks for improved SCM
collaboration, accountability and transparency. Promote the relevance of
compliance to SCM policies and procedures and the adherence to regulations.
Manage the improvement of SCM compliance through awareness sessions
and roadshows within the whole of Government. SCM GM&C Frameworks
Management: Collaborate on and contribute to the deployment of a: SCM
governance framework, SCM data collection and management system, SCM
reporting and reviewing framework, for SCM capability maturity assessment
model – specifically compliance, SCM-related grievance and dispute resolution
mechanism, SCM non-compliance reviews and remedies framework. SCM
Compliance Monitoring and Analysis: Manage and report on the analysis of
compliance with established SCM measures and prescribed parameters for:
procurement plans (quarterly and annually), bid processes specifications and
tender procedures, contract terms, supplier / service provider delivery
standards, procurement by other means and changes to procurement
standards. Manage reviews, and report on preferential procurement policy
compliance and impact including: Bid Reviews, Responding to requests for
advice/ complaints on SCM matters/ media reviews, Analyse data and prepare
reports for Parliamentary committees and other relevant stakeholders. Manage
and report on the assessment and evaluation of SCM capability maturity –
specifically compliance. Manage reviews, and report on SCM policy objectives
and impact on state expenditure and government transformational imperatives.
SCM GM & C Monitoring and Evaluation: Manage the development and
implementation of a system for the monitoring and evaluation of the
performance of the SCM monitoring framework. Manage the monitoring of, and
reporting on, the implementation and progress of the SCM monitoring
framework. Manage the evaluation of and reporting on the impact of the SCM
monitoring framework. SCM GM&C Knowledge and Information Management:
Manage SCM Monitoring-related knowledge and information. Manage the
content of SCM Monitoring-related KIM platforms.
121
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/195 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LOCAL GOVERNMENT FISCAL FRAMEWORK REF
NO: S044/2026
Division: Intergovernmental Relations (IGR)
Purpose: To provide inputs into policy formulation on local government
transfers, develop and maintenance of financial models for determination
annual allocations of municipalities that includes the local government's
equitable shares and municipal infrastructure grants.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a National Diploma (equivalent to NQF
level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Economics or
Finance. A minimum 4 years’ experience of which 2 years should be on an
Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained within the intergovernmental
fiscal system. Knowledge of the public finance management operating within
the local government environment. Knowledge and experience of financial and
economic analysis. Knowledge of policy development and dissemination.
DUTIES : Policy Formulation on Local Government Transfers: Analyse policies,
frameworks and formulas in respect of transfer programmes for local
government pertaining to local government equitable share and municipal
infrastructure grant. Propose reforms to existing system of local government
transfer programmes to improve allocative efficiency and impact of grants.
Analyse the integrity of data used in formulas to determine allocations to
municipalities. Provide inputs into sector policy processes that impact local
government finances and funding. Participate in municipal processes targeting
poverty alleviation and provide inputs to proposals. Develop and update
models within Local Government on Equitable shares and Municipal
Infrastructure Grant: Develop and maintain allocation models for the
determination of allocations to 257 municipalities for equitable share and
infrastructure grant allocations. Analyse the impact of proposed reforms to
formulas to determine the impact on categories and types of municipalities.
Implement strategies for the introduction of reforms to frameworks, models and
formulas to determine allocations to individual municipalities. Engage
stakeholders pertaining to policy for the enhancement of, and incorporation
into, the local government equitable share and infrastructure grant allocation
models. Local Government Transfers Finances: Provide inputs to departmental
publications (MTBPS, Budget Review, Local Government Budgets and
Expenditure Review. Participate in national budget process deliberations,
providing inputs on the local government impacts of proposed budget changes.
Liaise with internal stakeholders to coordinate changes to local government
transfers and other areas of mutual policy interest. Attend and present at
forums on local government transfers and other finance matters impacting the
environment. Manage programme design processes for new and reformed
local government transfer programmes: Research and prepare policy
discussion papers setting out the policy context of the sector being funded,
gaps in the current system and options for how a reformed or new funding
programme could address these. Design consultation processes and
convening stakeholders from relevant sector departments, organised local
government to consult on proposed new/reformed transfer programmes. Work
with relevant sector department on detailed design of the new transfer
programme, including design of allocation formula (inclusive of data
verification) and drafting legally binding rules for how funds can be used.
Present proposed funding programme structure for approval at
intergovernmental forums, including Budget Forum and present at hearings in
parliament and provincial legislatures.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
122
POST 13/196 : HUMAN RESOURCES BUSINESS PARNER REF NO: S047/2026 (X5
POSTS)
12 Months Fixed Term Contract
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To provide a fully Integrated Human Resources Business Partnering
service to the National Treasury and establish a culture of excellence through
value-adding Human Resources (HR) offerings and processes.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with, at minimum, a National Diploma
(equivalent to NQF level 6) in Human Resources Management or Industrial
Psychology or Human Resources Development or Public Administration or
Employee Relations. A Bachelor’s. degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) or above
in any of the above disciplines will be considered an added advantage. A
minimum of 4 years’ experience is required of which 2 years should be on an
Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained in the broader HR field.
Knowledge and experience in the delivery of HR processes and leading
change, within business units. Knowledge and experience of Legislative
Framework Governing the Public Service within the HR environment such as
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulation, Employment Equity Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act etc.
DUTIES : HR Service Delivery: Establish and maintain strong relationship management
and service excellence with stakeholders and uphold the HR Brand equity in
line-functionaries. Establish partnerships with line-functionaries to execute
relevant HR Processes to the Business (Divisions). Identify, understand and
translate Line or Business needs into value-adding HR initiatives. Implement
systems and processes to ensure that HR meets its strategic objectives, in line
with those of the National Treasury. Establish HR service Delivery as the 1st
and single point of contact in the Divisions on related matters or queries or
requests. Be a custodian of: Line-functionaries HR needs and HR processes
in Line (Talent Management Offerings). Provide HR support and guidance to
both Managers and employees within the Division. HR Communication: Enable
the marketing and communication of HR Initiatives within the National
Treasury. HR Governance: Ensure compliance to HR Policies, Procedures,
Practices and all other statutory requirements (HR Governance). HR
Operations: Ensure that transactional HR aspects are kept in line with
legislative requirements (employee data, information & records) for Divisions
are accurate and valid at all times. Implement processes and procedures to
measure HR’s impact and contribution to the National Treasury’s effectiveness.
Evaluate HR policies and align services offerings. HR Projects: Manage key
strategic HR projects, implementation and their deliverables thereof. Execution
and monitoring of progress and compliance on: Policies, procedures, practices
& processes in line, Change Management initiatives and Strategic HR
initiatives. HR Information: Analyse and interpret HR reports, and identify
positive and negative trends, with recommendations thereof. Provide relevant
HR management information or reports as per business requirements. Achieve
HR key performance indicators and objectives in the Divisions (HR Dashboard
& Scorecard Indicators, metrics). Relationship Management: Develop and
maintain effective relationships with Line (both managers and employees).
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 13/197 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LOCAL GOVERNMENT FISCAL FRAMEWORK
REF NO: S037/2026
Division: Intergovernmental Relations (IGR)
Purpose: To assist with the policy formulation and planning of local government
budgets, through collating and managing databases for the responsible local
sphere of government.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 is required coupled with A National Diploma (equivalent to NQF
level 6) in Economics or Public Finance Management or Public Administration
or Management. A bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) will be an
added advantage. A minimum 3 years’ experience in Public Financial
Management system in South Africa. Knowledge of applicable public finance
123
legislative and regulatory framework. Knowledge of basic public sector
budgeting principles.
DUTIES : Management of the database for the equitable share formula: Collecting
information to update components of the equitable share formula. Maintain the
database for the local government equitable share formula. Assist with the
preparation of tables, spreadsheets and presentation format of the database.
Local Government Fiscal Framework: Assist in the undertaking of technical
analyses necessary to inform decisions relating to local government equitable
shares. Provide assistance in maintaining conditional grants allocated to local
government stakeholders. Assist in the development and drafting of analytical
reports impacting on the local government fiscal framework. Updating the
components of the Equitable share formula: Regularly update all the
components of the formula in line with the latest changes. Assist with
refinement of the fiscal framework equitable share model. Compile different
scenarios for the fiscal framework equitable share. Develop and provide
analytical reports in supporting of the results of the model. Database design:
Provide concepts in the preparation of tables, spreadsheets and presentation
format of the fiscal framework equitable share formula database.
Intergovernmental Co-ordination and Publications: Assist with the compilation
of information required for the annual IGFR. Provide inputs of data for reports
to Technical Budget Forum and Budget Forum Meetings.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 13/198 : ECONOMIST: SECONDARY SECTOR REF NO: S045/2026
Division: Economic Policy and International Cooperation (EPIC)
Purpose: To monitor and evaluate economic developments in the secondary
sector of the economy, i.e. manufacturing sector; to analyse and advise on the
socio-economic impacts of various related policy proposals made by other
government departments.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Economics
or Econometrics. A minimum of 3 years’ experience obtained in an economic
policy analysis environment. Knowledge of applied microeconomics.
Knowledge of the different research engines, analysis and report writing skills.
Knowledge of dissemination of economic policy outcomes.
DUTIES : Sector Analysis: Provide reports on developments in the secondary sector and
implications for the economy. Research and analyse factors that drive growth
in the secondary sector. Provide in-depth analysis of the socio-economic
impact of various related policy proposals. Draft speaking & briefing notes,
memos and speeches for the Deputy-Director-General, Director-General,
Deputy Minister and Minister. Develop databases of various microeconomic
and macroeconomic indicators to assist in economic analysis. Assist in
developing National Treasury positions on real economy and related policy
issues developed in conjunction with other units of the National Treasury.
Policy Advice: Prepare briefing notes and memos to DG and Minister on
various real economy and related policy issues. Provide inputs into various
National Treasury policy discussions documents for consultation with
stakeholders. Provide support to engagements with stakeholders on policy and
related issues impacting the secondary sectors. Research: Research factors
that impact on growth, employment and investment in the secondary sector.
Research economic developments and policies and benchmark against
international best practices and trends. Budget & MTBPS: Provide inputs into
Chapter 2 of Budget Review and MTBPS: sector analysis, updates, tables,
charts. Assist with number checking and proof reading of Budget Chapters
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
124
POST 13/199 : HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: S043/2026 (X12 POSTS)
12 Months Fixed Term Contract
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To render support services on all transactional and transformational
support the Human Resources Management with all areas of recruitment
administration, full recruitment cycle, selection process, organisational
development and job evaluation within the National Treasury.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Grade 12 is required, coupled with a minimum National Diploma
(equivalent to NQF level 6) in Human Resources Management or Public
Administration or Social Sciences or Operations Management or Management
Services or Industrial Psychology. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in human
resources management coupled with organisational development and Human
Resources Administration. Knowledge and experience of the following: Job
Evaluation principles and processes, HR administration role with exposure to
recruitment, Experience in utilisation of technology for recruitment will be an
added advantage (e-Recruitment or ATS or PERSAL). Knowledge and
experience of onboarding and exit interviewing processes and procedures.
Knowledge and exposure to change management. Knowledge or exposure to
the PERSAL applications and Job Design principles.
DUTIES : Organisational Development: Update JE database with approved job
evaluation results. Align and link job descriptions against the appropriate post
on the JE database. Provide administration support in the re-evaluation of jobs.
Provide support services on change management, employee engagement and
on-boarding surveys. Provide support and advisory services to internal
stakeholders prior to the advertisement of positions. Coordinate JE meeting
and administration support. Conduct work study investigation and produce
report. Support the Recruitment Cycle: Assist in all areas of recruitment
administration, and to provide support to the Talent Acquisition officers.
Compile appointment memos and letters on behalf Senior HR Officers. Assist
with proof-reading and quality control of documents emanating from the
business unit. Manage Documentation and Maintain Candidate Database:
Prepare recruitment documents, organise in line with recruitment timelines, to
assist with drafting and placing job advertisements. Ensure that all necessary
employment checks (credit or security or qualifications or citizenship or
references) etc, and any other requested background checks, are completed.
Filing of documentation. Manage electronic document tracking system –
Routing of memoranda for signatures, and follow-up on outstanding memos
and other relevant documents. Update and maintain recruitment databases
and applicant tracking systems with candidate information, interview
schedules, and feedback to candidates. Perform desktop research for the
business unit upon request. Communication: Handle and responding to
enquiries from candidates. Communication with candidates as and when
required throughout the recruitment process, providing updates when
requested. Coordinate and Facilitate Shortlist and Interviews Meetings:
Schedule, coordinate and/or facilitate shortlist and interviews between
candidates and selection committee members, including arranging meeting
times and preparing interview materials. Onboarding Support: Assist in the
Administration of the quarterly on-boarding survey for all new joiners within the
National Treasury, Assist in the onboarding process for new hires, including
preparing contracts and offer letters, and ensuring that all pre-employment
checks are completed. Reporting and Compliance: Ensuring the recruitment
and selection process complies with relevant prescripts. Update all recruitment
and other HR related reports. Stakeholder Engagement: Assist with technical
projects and provide administrative support.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
125
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM
The Department of Tourism is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number, must be forwarded to the
attention of Chief Director: HR Management and Development at Department
of Tourism, Private Bag X424, Pretoria, 0001, or hand delivered at Tourism
House, 17 Trevenna Road, Sunnyside, Pretoria, or by email as provided.
CLOSING DATE : 11 May 2026 by 16:30 (Late applications will not be considered)
NOTE : Application must include a Z83 form and CV only. The electronic application
must be in PDF format and made up of a single document file. Indicate the
correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your
email. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted
on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s)
advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialled, and signed by the applicant as instructed
below. Failure to fully complete, initial, and sign the Z83 form will lead to the
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All fields of
Section A, B, C, and D of the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G
(Due to the limited space on the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to refer to
their CV or see attached. However, the question related to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered, and the declaration
signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous
experience, if any) and a completed and signed new Z83 application form are
required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies
of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the
interview, following the communication from Human Resources, and such
qualifications (s) and other related documents (s) will be in line with the
requirements of the advert. Applicants in possession of foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). Applicants who do not
comply with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as
applications received late, will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Candidates will further be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification, and employment verification). Some of the interviewed candidates
for Senior Management level vacancies may be subjected to a 2-day
competency assessment that will test generic competencies. Appointment
validity will be conditional to signing of the employment contract, performance
agreement, and annual financial disclosure, and must attain a security
clearance (vetting) applicable to the post. The Department reserves the right
not to make an appointment. You are consenting to the Department of Tourism
processing your personal information, subject to POPIA, by applying for this
post.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/200 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT REF NO: DT 26/2026
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package
consisting of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured
according to the MMS dispensation)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised NQF Level 7 qualification in Public Administration/ Management/
Office Administration. Five years’ relevant working experience in providing
executive support, of which three years must be at a supervisory level.
Knowledge of administrative procedures. Knowledge of project management.
Good leadership and management skills. Good coordination skills.
126
Organisational and planning skills. Good writing and listening skills. Knowledge
of HR practices and EDMS. Knowledge of language editing formats and quality
control mechanisms. Knowledge of meeting procedures and minute taking.
Knowledge of procurement and financial management. Good time
management skills. A valid driver’s licence (Persons with disabilities that
prevent them from driving will still be considered).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for planning and scheduling all
meetings and updating the diary based on Ministerial and Parliament’s
schedule; managing the DG’s diary for appointments and meetings; liaising
with the Minister’s office on a daily basis to check the Minister’s availability for
branch events as and when the Minister is required to attend these events;
liaising with Ministry on the Minister’s local and international events and
checking if the DG/ Departmental support is needed and loading the
information on the departmental calendar; ensuring that statutory meetings are
loaded on the departmental calendar; liaising with the Parliamentary Liaison
Officer in Cape Town to determine Parliament’s calendar for Cabinet Lekgotlas,
Departmental presentations to the Portfolio Committee etc; updating the
department’s calendar regularly; sourcing minutes and other information on
internal and external meetings attended by the DG; identifying and following
up with relevant branches/units tasked with the implementation of decisions
and resolutions; preparing progress reports regarding the implementation of
decisions; coordinating the preparation and support for all DG’S meetings;
ensuring that the DG receives briefing notes for meetings one week before the
meeting; ensuring that meeting files are prepared two days before the
meetings; ensuring that all logistical arrangements for meetings are well
coordinated; travelling with DG to provide executive and admin support;
receiving minutes of Top Management meetings and developing action lists of
the decisions from the meetings; making follow ups with DDG’s and branch
administrators on progress report of action list derived from Top Management
Minutes; assisting the DG in day to day activities; managing the office of the
DG’s reception; typing letters as directed by the DG; handling confidential
matters/ correspondence intended for the DG; ensuring the effective and
efficient functioning of the DG’s office; ensuring alignment of time with
departmental strategic priorities and targets; writing reports and general
correspondences; preparing and compiling monthly performance reports for
Office of the DG meetings; liaising with internal and external clients;
maintaining information sharing between the DG and stakeholders; screening
incoming calls and directing them to relevant officials; ensuring hospitality in
the office of the DG; establishing and maintaining professional relationships
with clients and stakeholders, different Ministries and the SAT Board; handling
and coordinating all inter departmental communication to the DG; manage the
travel arrangements for domestic and international trips and ensure that
meetings are well coordinated, procurement of goods and services for the
office, manage the messenger driver services for the DG’s office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Makhubedu Tel No: (012) 444 6376
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment2626@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : Short-listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting to
determine the suitability of a person for employment EE Requirements:
Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth and People with
Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/201 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PEP SECTOR SUPPORT AND REPORTING
REF NO: DT 27/2026
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. Ability to communicate well with different
people in different levels and from different backgrounds. Good telephone
etiquette. Sound organisational skills Knowledge of PEP reporting system.
Knowledge of EPWP programmes. Knowledge of relevant legislation / Policies
/ Prescripts and Procedures. Basic written and Communication Skills.
Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for receiving data and creating
monthly folder for record data management; cleaning and transferring PEP
project reported data to PEP reporting system (PEPRS) simplified form;
uploading verified cleaned data on the PEPRS and submitting for authorization;
analysis of demographic information; identifying female, youth and persons
127
with disability from PEP project report; populating lists of all received PEP
project report on a balance score card; capturing number of beneficiaries, days
worked, reporting month, date received and year captured; using PEP weekly
comprehensive report to check if what comes from the PEPRS is the actual
data captured; using lists of eligible projects submitted from regional offices on
a monthly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Ntsoane Tel No: (012) 444 6479
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment2726@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/202 : FINANCE CLERK REF NO: DT 28/2026
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate
financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial
legislations, procedures and Treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR,
PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems
(PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS, Safety web etc). Planning and organising skills. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Basic numeracy skills. Ability to
perform routine tasks. Ability to operate office equipment.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for clearing BAS exceptions
online; requesting BAS reports and clearing PMG accounts; processing
journals on BAS; receiving entity information to create, import, link or
maintaining on BAS and LOGIS; capturing on Safetyweb and obtaining bank
details verification; filing entity information and making sure all entities have a
verified report from Safetyweb and a CSD report if applicable; attending to
enquiries received with regard to entities; signing off Logis procurement forms
for verification of banking details; checking verification status of project bank
details prior to processing payments; receiving and printing notifications from
National Treasury for CR transfer payments to authorise; receiving copies of
payment documents and payment stubs from the credit section; checking and
verifying that the information captured on BAS is correct on Safetyweb and
authorise; printing a status report on Safetyweb and updating register and filing
the documents; receiving financial batches from different sections; verifying
and signing reports that all batches are received; reconciling user reports with
the BAS payment register; sorting batches in form type and number sequence;
reconciling batches received with the different BAS registers; following up on
outstanding cases; filing reconciled payment registers and batches in
storeroom and maintaining neatness of the documents; archiving documents;
printing and reconciling payment stubs and disbursement reports; extracting
payment stubs for internal and external clients on request.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Molefe Tel No: (012) 444 6228
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment2826@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 13/203 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: DT 29/2026
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (Abet level 2 certificate or equivalent).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for cleaning kitchen utensils and
equipment; providing catering support services; keeping stock of kitchen
utensils and equipment; applying hygiene and safety measures; maintaining
quality control measures of all food provided; removing garbage disposal;
preparing food, snack, and beverages; setting up and conveying crockery,
cutlery and equipment to dining areas; serving food and beverages; taking
responsibility for food supplies and report waste and losses.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Morena Tel No: (012) 444 6114
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment2926@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
128
ANNEXURE O
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 06 May 2026
NOTE : Other related documentation such as copies of qualifications, identity
document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany the application when
applying for a post as such documentation must only be produced by
shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA circular 19 of
2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or occupational
registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be completed as
these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or disclose all
required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No late
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Candidates will be required
to complete a financial disclosure form and undergo security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must provide a police clearance
certificate from country of origin (only when shortlisted). The Department of
Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts,
the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996
(Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the
Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
hear from us within three (3) months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications will not be
considered. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Targets.
ERRUTUM: Kindly note that the post of Water Control Aid (X15 Posts) with Ref
No: 240426/04, 240426/05, 240426/06, 240426/07, 240426/08, 240426/09
and 240426/10 as advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 12 of 2026
dated 24 April 2026, has the following enquiry contacts: Mr P Mokgau Tel No:
(018) 673 9902 (Grootmarico) and Ms Elsabé Oosthuizen, Tel No: (087) 943
3716 Furthermore, the post of General Worker (X19 Posts) with Ref No:
240426/15, as advertised in the same circular, has the following enquiry
contact: Mr P Mokgau, Tel No: (018) 673 9902 (Grootmarico). Please also note
that the closing date for both posts has been extended to 06 May 2026.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/204 : SPECIALIST SCIENTIST PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: 060526/01
Branch: Regulations Compliance and Enforcement
Dir: Water Abstraction and Instream Impacts
Sd: Technical Coordination and Support
SALARY : R1 509 819 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : PhD in Hydrology, Environmental Science, Water Resource Management, or a
related field of science. Ten (10) years relevant scientific experience in water
resource management or related scientific field after BSc Degree qualification.
Compulsory registration with the South African Council for Natural Scientific
Professions (SACNASP) as a professional in an appropriate field of practice.
The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s licence. Knowledge of the legal
compliance to the National Water Act, 36 of 1998 and other specific
129
environmental management related legislations. Understanding of programme
and project management. Understanding of scientific methodologies and
models. Knowledge in research and development. Knowledge in computer-
aided scientific applications. Technical report writing and data analysis.
Networking, planning and organising. Conflict, people and change
management. Capacity building and facilitation skills. Good communication
skills both (verbal and written). Problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Provide scientific support in the regulation and management of instream water
impacts. Conduct technical assessments of water use licence applications.
Provide technical inputs into Records of Decisions for environmental
authorisation applications. Evaluate hydrological data and determine impacts
on water resources. Develop and review resource protection measures,
including ecological reserve requirements. Support compliance monitoring and
enforcement initiatives. Participate in policy development and implementation
within the Directorate. Liaise with stakeholders, including government entities,
Water Research Commission, academic and other research Institutions,
consultants, and water users. Supervise and mentor junior officials. Compile
technical reports and provide recommendations for decision-making.
Development of guidelines and protocols for Instream Water Impacts and
ensure their implementation. Lead, coordinate, and develop scientific models
and regulatory frameworks. Capacity building of internal and external
stakeholders. Conduct and participate in research initiatives. Provide
specialised scientific and technical expertise in support of the Department
during Water Tribunal proceedings and/or any litigation related processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Ndubane Tel No: (012) 336 8851
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 13/205 : CHIEF ARCHITECT (LANDSCAPE) GRADE A REF NO: 060526/02
Branch: Regulations Compliance and Enforcement
Dir: Water Abstraction and Instream Impacts
Sd: Technical Coordination and Support
SALARY : R1 099 488 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree in landscape architecture or relevant qualification. Six (6)
years post qualification landscape architectural experience required. Post
graduate qualification will serve as an added advantage. Compulsory
registration with South African Council for the Landscape Architectural
Profession (SACLAP) as a Professional Landscape Architect. The disclosure
of a valid unexpired driver’s licence. Knowledge of the legal compliance to the
National Water Act, 36 of 1998 and other specific environmental management
related legislations. Knowledge of water resource management, environmental
legislations, and regulatory frameworks. Understanding of water use
authorisations, particularly Instream water Impacts with a focus on landscape
architecture, landscape design, landscape planning, landscape rehabilitation.
Understanding of programme and project management. Understanding of
architectural legal and operational compliance. Knowledge of landscape
architectural operational communications and technology. knowledge of
landscape maintenance, monitoring and auditing skills. Understanding of
landscape architectural principles. Technical report writing. Problem solving
and analysis. People, conflict and change management. Capacity building and
facilitation skills. Good communication skills both (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Conduct technical assessments of water use licence applications and provide
technical inputs into Records of Decisions for environmental authorisation
applications with a specific focus on landscape and ecological impacts. Provide
specialist input on landscape and instream water Impacts related
developments. Ensure compliance with environmental and water legislation.
Conduct site inspections and evaluate landscape impacts of proposed
developments. Participate in policy development and implementation within the
Directorate. Support compliance monitoring and enforcement initiatives. Liaise
with internal and external stakeholders on regulatory matters. Compile
technical reports and provide recommendations for decision-making.
Development of guidelines and protocols for Instream Water Impacts with a
focus on Landscape Architecture and ensure their implementation. Mentor
junior officials. Capacity building of internal and external stakeholders. Conduct
and participate in research initiatives. Provide specialised technical expertise
130
in support of the Department during Water Tribunal proceedings and/or any
litigation related processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Ndubane Tel No: (012) 336 8851
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 13/206 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: WATER SERVICES POLICY RESEARCH AND
EVALUATION REF NO: 060526/03
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management
Dir: Water Services Policy Research and Evaluation
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree (NQF level 7) in Public Policy, Social Science,
Development Studies, Public Administration, or relevant qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in the water and
sanitation sector policy development and strategy. Knowledge and experience
in policy and strategy development and implementation. Knowledge and
understanding of all the relevant legislation including Water Act, PFMA, etc.
Knowledge in assessment of the sector performance on water and sanitation
policies Knowledge and understanding of government planning frameworks
and timelines. Knowledge in supporting legislative reviews, analysis and advise
on amendments. Good communication skills both (verbal and written).
Understanding of strategic capacity and leadership. Knowledge in programme
and project management. Understanding of financial, change and knowledge
management. Service delivery and innovation. Problem solving and analysis.
People management and empowerment. Client orientation and customer
focus. Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development of water services policy and strategy and related
processes. Facilitate consultations and workshops with stakeholders (internal
and external) during policy and strategy formulation. Conduct periodic review
of the water services strategy considering identified areas for review. Monitor
implementation of current water services strategies to identify gaps and
improvement areas. Conduct policy research to inform evidence-based policy
making. Prepare SEIAS phase 1 (initial assessment) and phase 2 (full
assessment) reports for proposed policies, strategies and regulations. Develop
and review Social Economic Impact Assessment System (SEIAS) reports on
policy strategy and regulation. Facilitate the development of legislation,
operational policies, and strategies. Provide technical input into drafting of
water sector legislation and operational guidelines. Manage human resources,
financial and risk management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ndlovu Tel No: (012) 336 7391
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 13/207 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: WATER SERVICES INSTITUTIONS PERFORMANCE
REGULATION REF NO: 060526/04
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management: EC
CD: Provincial Operations: Eastern Cape
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree in Water / Natural Science, Engineering (Civil / Electrical),
Environmental or relevant qualification at NQF level 7. Five (5) years’
experience in Water Sector Management. The disclosure of a valid unexpired
driver’s license. Knowledge of Public Services Act. Knowledge and
understanding of Water service act, National Water Act and related legislation.
Knowledge of financial management and public finance management Act
(PFMA). Public Administration.
DUTIES : Provide operational plan to ensure monitoring and compliance of water
services institutions (IPAP). Construct operational plan for water service
institutions compliance monitoring. Advises management on policies and
strategies relevant to water services institutions performance monitoring
Develop local monitoring strategies and standards. Implementation of norma
and standards. Coordinate regulation of municipal water use efficiency (No
Drop) in the provincial operational area. Manage water services institutions
performance compliance monitoring programme. Analyze routine monitoring
131
reports. Draft provincial water services institutions performance compliance
monitoring report. Develop remedial action plans to address water loss.
Implementation of remedial action plans. Lead monitoring of municipal water
and sanitation tariffs. Evaluation of municipal water and sanitation tariffs
against prescribed tariff methodology. Mediate in application of tariffs to ensure
tariffs are equitably applied. Escalate noncompliance with tariff
implementation. Unit management. Performance management. Training and
development. Discipline management. Resource allocation Routine reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Lucas. Tel No: (043) 701 0347
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 13/208 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SANITATION SERVICES REGULATION REF NO:
060526/05
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management: EC
CD: Provincial Operations: Eastern Cape
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree in Water / Urban / Natural / Environmental Science /
Engineering (Civil / Electrical) or relevant qualification at NQF level 7. Five (5)
Years’ experience in Water Sector Management. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of Public Services Act. Knowledge and
understanding of Water Services Act, National Water Act and related
legislation. Knowledge of financial management and public finance
management Act (PFMA). Public Administration.
DUTIES : Provide operational plan to ensure monitoring and compliance of wastewater
standards. Develop a vision and mission for the supply of wastewater quality
to water sector users. Ensures a culture of innovation and performance.
Construct operational plan for wastewater compliance monitoring. Advises top
management and legislature, as well as relevant sector bodies, on policies and
strategies relevant to the sector. Ensures compliance to legislative
requirements and framework agreements. Manage compliance monitoring
programme. Analyze routine monitoring reports. Draft provincial wastewater
compliance report. Ensures maintenance of the wastewater quality system.
Manage regular monitoring of wastewater processing facilities. consult with
wastewater processing facilities operational management. Guide the
development of maintenance plans for wastewater processing facilities.
Facilitates implementation of wastewater quality action plan. Develop remedial
action plans to address non-compliance. Implementation and monitoring of
remedial maintenance schedules. Implementation of remedial action
addressing wastewater quality. Manage implementation of green drop
programme. Coordinate the customizing of local green drop programmes.
Develop systems for implementation of green drop programmes. Lead
monitoring of impact of green drop programmes. Develop and implement
interventions to improve green drop programmes. Unit management.
Performance management. Training and development. Discipline
management. Resource allocation. Routine reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Lucas. Tel No: (043) 701 0347
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 13/209 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LAND MATTERS REF NO: 060526/06 (X4 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Head Office
Dir: Land Rights Administration
Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Must possess an NQF 6 qualification (National Diploma) in Real Estate,
Property studies, Land Management or equivalent qualifications. Five (5) years
relevant experience in land acquisition, land use management, property
management or related fields. Knowledge understanding Expropriation Act,
National Water Act, Water Services Act, Promotion of Administrative Justice
Act, Constitution of South Africa, Public Services Act, Public Administration and
relevant acts in relation to the land related matters. Problem solving and
132
analysis. Accountability and ethical conduct. Good communication skills both
(verbal and written).
DUTIES : Facilitate and coordinate land acquisition processes in accordance with
approved policies, procedures, and delegated authority. Support the
development and implementation of land acquisition practices, methodologies,
and standard operating procedures within the unit. Coordinate the
administration of land use management matters, including land use
determinations and compliance with applicable legislation. Prepare, compile,
and submit accurate monthly, quarterly, and ad hoc reports within prescribed
timeframes. Prepare submissions, memoranda, and reports on land
acquisition, land use, and land administration matters in compliance with
legislative, policy, and departmental requirements. Provide guidance and
supervision to staff on the interpretation and application of land-related
legislation, policies, and departmental guidelines. Render administrative
support in relation to wayleaves, servitudes, and leasing of State land within
delegated authority. Verify and ensure that State land parcels are correctly
vested under the Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS). Monitor, record,
and report illegal occupation, encroachment, or misuse of State land within
government waterworks, including conducting site visits where required.
Administer applications from interested parties for new developments on State
land and coordinate administrative processes for existing (old scheme)
properties. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders on land acquisition,
land use, and land administration matters. Attend meetings and forums relating
to land acquisition, land use management, and land administration matters.
Attend to additional administrative and operational duties related to land
acquisition and land use management, as reasonably required by the
supervisor within the scope of the post and delegated authority.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mangotlo Tel No: (012) 336 8949
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 13/210 : CHIEF SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 060526/07
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Nandoni Dam
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 4 or Senior/Grade 12 Certificate. A valid Security Grade
A PSIRA Certificate. National Diploma in Security Management will serve as
an added advantage. National Key Point Certificate, A valid SAPS Firearm
Competency for Rifle, Shotgun and Pistol will serve as an added advantage.
Three (3) years’ supervisory experience in a security environment. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Computer literacy and skills in
MS Office Software package. Knowledge of prescribed security legislation e.g.
MISS, Protection of Information Act, etc. Knowledge and experience of
emergency procedures. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety. Sound
knowledge in interpretation and application of security code of conduct,
security legislations and directives. Good listing, communication, and
interpersonal skills. Ability to interact with people at all levels and work in a
team environment. Analytical thinking. Problem-solving and analysis. Ability to
handle conflicts and excellent report writing skills. Work under pressure,
willingness to travel throughout the Area Office and work extended hours.
DUTIES : Implement security polices in line with relevant acts and national directives as
determined. Monitor threats and risk analysis Ensure firearm regulation is
implemented accordingly. Manage deployment and the functioning of security
operations. Implement emergency contingency and procedures. Conduct site
inspections on official residence and offices. Safeguard Departmental assets.
Conducts investigations of security incidents and breaches. Liaise with
National Intelligence Agency (NIA), South African Police Services (SAPS),
other security agencies and DWS National Security Manager Coordinate
security awareness and training Ensure the safe custody and protection of
officials, assets and information through the implementation and adherence to
the MISS/MPSS. Supervision of human resources. Manage and evaluate staff
performance on an on-going basis. Manage private security service provider’s
contracts. Provide operational and administrative assistance regarding security
activities, forums, training, vetting, risk assessments and security reports.
Conduct investigations where necessary.
133
ENQUIRIES : Mr KS Thantsha Tel No: (015) 307 8600
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 13/211 : SECURITY OFFICER (X26 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Nandoni Dam Ref No: 060526/08 (X16 Posts)
Mokolo Pump Station Ref No: 060526/09 (X10 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4 Certificate. Professional membership: PSIRA Grade A. National
Key Point Training Certificate. Firearm Competency Certificate. Understanding
National Key Point Act 102 of 1980 and regulations. Knowledge of Labour
Relations Act 66 of 1995 and Criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1997. Knowledge
of South African Constitution and Strategic Intelligence Act. Threat, risk
assessment skills, investigation and interviewing skills. Knowledge of physical
security shift operations and Minimum Information Security Standards. (MISS).
Excellent communication skills both (verbal and written). A comprehensive
knowledge and understanding of asset and information protection principles
necessary to plan and implement security programs and solutions in support
of the business. Understanding of legislative and safety and policy frameworks
governing the sector. Understanding of financial management. Understanding
of programme and project management. Knowledge of policy development and
implementation. Understanding of legislative and policy frameworks governing
the public sector. Good communication, presentation, report writing and
networking skills. Accountability and ethical conduct. Knowledge of conflict
management tools and methodologies.
DUTIES : Control the movement of people, vehicles and goods into and out of the NKP,
and permit or deny entry as required. Security incidents response including
arrest unauthorized individuals were necessary. Surveillance and monitoring
premises and security perimeter of the NKP. Ensure the equipment,
documents, and stores do not leave or enter the building of premises
unauthorised. Administer compliance record all incidents in the occurrence
books/registers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr KS Thantsha Tel No: (015) 307 8600 / Mr P Monkwe at (066) 111 0012
(Mokolo)
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
134
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form. “Applicants are advised that
from 1 January 2021, a new application for employment (Z83) form will be
effective which can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1
January 2021 should an application be received using the incorrect application
for employment (Z83), it will not be considered.” Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Therefore, only shortlisted
candidates for a post will be required to submit certified documents on or before
the day of the interview following communication from HR. Successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) is
required for being considered for this SMS post prior to appointment.
Enrolment for the course should be made on the NSG’s website at
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme.
Applicants will be expected to be available for selection interviews and
assessments at a time, date and place as determined by the Department. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must disclose to the Head of Department particulars of all registrable financial
interests, sign a performance agreement and employment contract with the
Head of Department within three months from the date of assumption of duty.
Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied
by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. The
recommended candidate(s) for OSD production posts MUST submit endorsed
service certificates from the previous employer and endorsed Persal service
records where applicable within 2 days of accepting the offer. The Department
does not accept applications via fax or email. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence
will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. The employment offer to
successful candidate will be subject to verified educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship check, reference checks and security vetting.
Please note: Correspondence will only be entered into with short-listed
candidates. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of 12 months. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be expected
to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representativity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/212 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (ANAESTHESOLOGY): GRADE 1 – 3 REF NO:
H/M/31/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810.per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609.per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
all -inclusive package consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion
that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical Aid (Optional)
Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Pelonomi Tertiary Hospital, Bloemfontein
135
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health
Science (MBChB). Initial and current registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology.
Grade 1: No experience required. Grade 2: A minimum of (5) years relevant
experience after registration with Health Profession Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 3: A minimum of
(10) years relevant experience after registration with the Health Profession
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology.
Current registration with HPCSA (2026/2027). Knowledge And Skills: Attributes
and Abilities Sound clinical concept within the specific domain. Ability to work
in multidisciplinary team. Teaching and supervisory skills. Assessment,
diagnose and management of patients within the field of expertise. Good verbal
and written communication skills and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of all
Public Service Legislation, Policies and Procedures. Conflict management
skills. Innovation, drive and stress tolerance. Concern of excellence. ACLS,
ATLS, APLS. Medical expertise, Clinical competence, Medical regulations and
research and Research and analysis. Communication, empathy and
compassion, problem-solving, leadership and teamwork, adaptability and
attention to detail.
DUTIES : Patient care and Clinical duties: Management all medical conditions to ensure
that a competent service is provided to all patients. Briefing, informing and
counselling patients and where appropriate relatives regarding prevention,
treatment operative, complications and rehabilitation. Endeavour to becomes
killed in resuscitative measures and intensive care treatment to assure survival
of critically ill-patients. Prescribe medications, order and interpret diagnostic
tests, and assist in medical procedures and surgeries. Team leadership:
Supervise junior staff in order to provide adequate medical care and to train
them to be able to do key medical interventions. Documentation: Reduce
medical litigation by exercising good clinical ethos, complete medico-legal
documentation, and maintain adequate medical records. Compliance and
quality: Perform clinical governance and ensure compliance with all legal and
statutory requirements with FSDoH OHSC, HPCSA, CMSA, UFS.
Administrative and operational: Consult patients on an outpatient basis to have
optimal chronic disease management and good long-term follow-up. Render
outreach and support services to other levels of care in our drainage areas
(Free State Province). Candidate will have to perform commuted duties
(Compulsory & non-negotiable) in line with the relevant policy. Perform all
reasonable duties as directed by Head of Department/ Head of Clinical Unit/
Medical Specialist. Conducting clinical audits. Monitoring and evaluating of
relevant clinical effectiveness indicators.
ENQUIRIES : Dr MJ Maseloa, Tel No: (051) 405 1936
APPLICATIONS : Applications send to: https://ihealth.gov.za/e-recruitment
POST 13/213 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY) GRADE 1 – 3
REF NO: H./M/32/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810.per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
all -inclusive package consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion
that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical Aid (Optional)
Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Pelonomi Tertiary Hospital, Bloemfontein Placement at Mofumahadi Manapo
Mopeli Regional Hospital, Phuthaditjhaba
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Appropriate tertiary qualification in
the Health Science (MBChB). Initial and current registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Grade 1: No experience required. Grade 2: A
minimum of (5) years relevant experience after registration with Health
Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Grade 3: A minimum of (10) years relevant
experience after registration with the Health Profession Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Current
136
registration with HPCSA (2026/2027). Knowledge and Skills: Attributes and
Abilities Sound clinical concept within the specific domain. Ability to work in
multidisciplinary team. Teaching and supervisory skills. Assessment, diagnose
and management of patients within the field of expertise. Good verbal and
written communication skills and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of all Public
Service Legislation, Policies and Procedures. Conflict management skills.
Innovation, drive and stress tolerance. Concern of excellence. ACLS, ATLS,
APLS. Medical expertise, Clinical competence, Medical regulations and
research and Research and analysis. Communication, empathy and
compassion, problem-solving, leadership and teamwork, adaptability and
attention to detail.
DUTIES : Patient care and Clinical duties: Management all medical conditions to ensure
that a competent service is provided to all patients. Briefing, informing and
counselling patients and where appropriate relatives regarding prevention,
treatment operative, complications and rehabilitation. Endeavour to becomes
killed in resuscitative measures and intensive care treatment to assure survival
of critically ill-patients. Prescribe medications, order and interpret diagnostic
tests, and assist in medical procedures and surgeries. Team leadership:
Supervise junior staff in order to provide adequate medical care and to train
them to be able to do key medical interventions Documentation: Reduce
medical litigation by exercising good clinical ethos, complete medico-legal
documentation, and maintain adequate medical records. Compliance and
quality: Perform clinical governance and ensure compliance with all legal and
statutory requirements with FSDoH OHSC, HPCSA, CMSA, UFS.
Administrative and operational: Consult patients on an outpatient basis to have
optimal chronic disease management and good long-term follow-up. Render
outreach and support services to other levels of care in our drainage areas
(Free State Province). Candidate will have to perform commuted duties
(Compulsory & non-negotiable) in line with the relevant policy. Perform all
reasonable duties as directed by Head of Department/ Head of Clinical Unit/
Medical Specialist. Conducting clinical audits. Monitoring and evaluating of
relevant clinical effectiveness indicators.
ENQUIRIES : Dr MJ Maseloa Tel No: (051) 405 1936
APPLICATIONS : Applications send to: https://ihealth.gov.za/e-recruitment
POST 13/214 : MEDICAL SUB-SPECIALIST: PAEDIATRICS NEONATOLOGY: GRADE1- 3
REF NO: H/M/33/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 – R1 422 810 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 – R1 623 609 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 – R2 212 680 per annum
all -inclusive package consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion
that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical Aid (Optional)
Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Univeristas Academic Hospital: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Matric and appropriate qualification that allows registration with HPCSA as
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics (Paediatric Neonatology). Current registration
with the HPCSA (2026/2027). Be a South African Citizen or a permanent
resident. Experience. Grade 1: No experience after registration with the
HPCSA AS Medical Specialist in Paediatric Neonatology. Grade 2: A minimum
of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Paediatric Neonatology.
Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist
after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health professional
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in
Paediatric Oncology. Knowledge and skills: Experience in clinical sub-specialty
care services around the field of Paediatric Neonatology. Experience in
academic teaching and learning to undergraduate (medical students) and
postgraduate (registrars) students. Institutional and departmental
administrative and leadership duties. Knowledge of Public Service Legislative,
policies and procedure. Excellent time management, written and verbal
communication skills and report writing skills. Good interpersonal skills with
colleagues and other departments. Honesty, integrity and high work ethic.
DUTIES : Provide specialised diagnostic and therapeutic services in Paediatric
Neonatology. Manage complex and referred cases that require advanced
knowledge beyond general practice. Collaborate with multidisciplinary teams
137
to develop comprehensive treatment plans. Participate in clinical ward rounds,
outpatient consultations and evidence-based practice. Conduct clinical audits,
mortality, morbidity and monitoring and evaluating relevant clinical
effectiveness indicators. Teach undergraduate and postgraduate medical
students. Develop and deliver lectures, tutorials and bedside teaching session.
Supervise clinical training and mentor junior doctors in research and
professional development. Participate in curriculum design and evaluation
within the academic institution. Conduct and publish original research relevant
to Paediatric Neonatology. Apply for research funding and collaborate with
national and international partners. Promote a culture of inquiry and evidence-
based medicine among trainees and colleagues. Present finding at academic
conferences and contribute to the development of clinical guidelines. Assist in
planning and evaluating clinical services to improve patient outcomes.
Participate in departmental meetings, hospital committees and policy
development. May hold leadership roles as Head of Paediatric Neonatology,
Clinical Supervisor or Research Coordinator.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N.E Tabane: Tel No: (051) 401 2591
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/215 : MANAGER NURSING PNA9 REF NO: H/M/34/2026
SALARY : R1 155 099 per annum, all -inclusive package consists of 70% basic salary and
30% flexible portion that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical
Aid (Optional) Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Lejweleputswa District
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate or Grade 12, Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council.
Current registration with the South African Nursing Council (2026/2027).
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse. At least 10 years of the period referred to above
must be appropriate/recognizable experience at management level. At least 5
years’ experience after qualifying in Primary Health care Specialty – NIMART
trained and Primary Health Care Reengineering highly recommended Skills
and Knowledge: Qualification in Psychiatry, Nursing Management/
Administration/ Health Care Management and Nursing Education, Diploma in
Primary Health Care. Ability to function at different levels of care related to the
specialty qualified for. In depth knowledge and understanding of Health-related
Acts, Regulations, Guidelines and other related policies such as; Nursing Act
and Regulations, Health Act, Code of Ethics, Professional Scope of Practice
Act Occupational Health and Safety Act, Mental Health Care Act. Knowledge
and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service
including: Skills Development Act, Public Development Act, Public Service
Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Grievance Procedure and Disciplinary
Code Procedures.
DUTIES : Ensure that holistic nursing care service is delivered to patients in a cost
effective, efficient and equitable manner by the Head of Nursing Service of the
Institution including the overall management (i.e. Operational HR and Finance
thereof. Ensure compliance to professional and ethical practices. Develop and
monitor the implementation of policies, programmes, regulations, practices,
procedures and standards pertaining to nursing care. Provide guidance and
leadership towards the realization of strategic goals and objectives of the
division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NF Gigi Tel No: (057) 352 2706
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/216 : MEDICAL REGISTRARS (PHARMACOLOGY: UROLOGY) REF NO:
H/M/35/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, all -inclusive package consists of 70% basic salary and
30% flexible portion that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical
Aid (Optional) Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Univeristas Academic Hospital: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : MBCHB or equivalent degree. Current valid registration with HPCSA for the
period of 2026/2027. At least more than 1-year post community service
experience, preferably in a Free State Hospital. Valid Driver’s license. South
African citizen or permanent residence. Knowledge and skills: Additional
138
qualification e.g; primaries, Certificates or Diplomas relevant to the field, ACLS,
ATLS, APLS, BSS etc.
DUTIES : Service delivery to inpatients, outpatients, day patients and emergencies.
Teaching and training, Conduct research. Must perform commuted overtime
and medical administration. Perform outreach.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Nathan Tel No: (051) 405 3469
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/217 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: ADVOCACY; – 3 REF NO: H/A/3/2026
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : PNA-7: R693 096 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical
Aid (Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements
CENTRE : Corporate Office, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus Diploma/Degree in nursing (NQF6&7) as recognized by SAQA that
allows registration with South African Nursing Council as a professional nurse.
A minimum of eight (8) years appropriate/ recognizable experience in Nursing
after registration as a professional nurse with SANC in General Nursing. At
least three (3) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/
recognizable experience at management level PN-A5 in
ACSM/TB/HIV&AIDS/Strategic health programs. Valid driver license. Current
registration with the SANC AS Professional Nurse 2026/2027. knowledge and
skills: Computer literacy (i.e.MS.Word. PowerPoint, Excel) Ability to work
independently I a multidisciplinary context. Analytic thinking, independent
decision making and problem-solving skills Knowledge in TB management,
HIV&AIDS and other Strategic Health Programs. Good Communication Skills.
Good Communication Skills.
DUTIES : Participate in the ACSM review of finance, allocation and procurement of
promotional material such as IEC material such as material. Develop and
Oversee the implementation of ACSM comprehensive plan at Province and
District level for health programs. Ensure safe keeping and handling of all
physical resources in the ACSM program to promote efficiency in service
delivery. Convene public campaigns including imbizo; door to door visits and
road shows. Organize End TB and Close the gap Campaigns and outreach
campaigns. Establish and Maintain a healthy working relationship with
Stakeholder at levels. Organize and coordinate ACSM events including the
commemoration of health calendar events e.g World TB day, world AIDS day
and Back to care campaign. Strengthen health education activities during
outbreak management. Reinforce the use of DHIMS Policy for data
management. Support visit facilities to monitor the quality of data captured. Co-
ordinate and support activities for service excellence. Develop clinic quality
improvement programmes, polies. Guidelines, and indicators with regard to
ACSM program. Collate monthly, quarterly and annual reports for ACSM
program and consolidate into a comprehensive report. Monitor creation of an
environment that promotes the right of patients, advocating and facilitating
proper treatment and care and ensuring that principles of Batho Pele are
adhered to. Liaise and advise on effective communication with relevant internal
and external stakeholders
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Chauke telephone number: (051) 408 1342
APPLICATIONS : send to: https://ihealth.gov.za
POST 13/218 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY) (PNB3) (THEATRE)
REF NO: H/O/6/2026
SALARY : R693 096 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Pelonomi Tertiary Hospital, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, Basic R425 qualification i.e. diploma/degree in nursing or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council as a Professional Nurse. Current registration with the South African
Nursing Council (2026/2027) A minimum of 9 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing Post qualification as Professional trained nurse, at least 5
years of the period referred to the above specialty. Must be willing to work
shifts. Ability to provide holistic care. Knowledge And Skills: An additional post-
basic qualification of 1-year duration. Computer literacy. Knowledge of Public
Service Legislation, policies and procedures. Thorough knowledge of nursing
139
care processes and procedures, nursing statutes, and other relevant legal
frameworks such as: Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety
Act, Patient Rights Charter, Batho-Pele principles, etc. Knowledge of HR
policies such as: Skills Development Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour
Relations Act, Disciplinary Code and Procedure, Grievance Procedure.
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care provided within set
standards and a professional/legal framework. Manage effectively the
utilisation and supervision of resources. Coordination of the provision of
effective training and research. Provision of Effective Support to Nursing
Services. Effective utilization of resources (Human and Material) participation
with training and research. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LP Mangoejane – Tel No: (051) 405 1940
APPLICATIONS : send to: https://ihealth.gov.za/e-recruitment
POST 13/219 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY) (PNB3) (OBSTETRICS
& GYNAECOLOGY) REF NO: H/O/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements
CENTRE : Pelonomi Tertiary Hospital, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, Basic R425 qualification i.e. diploma/degree in nursing or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council as a Professional Nurse. Current registration with the South African
Nursing Council (2026/2027) A minimum of 9 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing Post qualification as Professional trained nurse, at least 5
years of the period referred to the above specialty. Must be willing to work
shifts. Ability to provide holistic care. Knowledge And Skills: An additional post-
basic qualification of 1-year duration. Computer literacy. Knowledge of Public
Service Legislation, policies and procedures. Thorough knowledge of nursing
care processes and procedures, nursing statutes, and other relevant legal
frameworks such as: Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety
Act, Patient Rights Charter, Batho-Pele principles, etc. Knowledge of HR
policies such as: Skills Development Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour
Relations Act, Disciplinary Code and Procedure, Grievance Procedure.
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care provided within set
standards and a professional/legal framework. Manage effectively the
utilisation and supervision of resources. Coordination of the provision of
effective training and research. Provision of Effective Support to Nursing
Services. Effective utilization of resources (Human and Material) participation
with training and research. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LP Mangoejane Tel No: (051) 405 1940
APPLICATIONS : send to: https://ihealth.gov.za/e-recruitment
POST 13/220 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY) (PNB3) (ADVANCE
MIDWIFERY AND NEONATAL NURSING SCIENCE) REF NO: H/O/8/2026
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, Basic R425 qualification i.e. diploma/degree in nursing or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a
duration of at least 1 year, accredited with SANC in Advance Midwifery and
Neonatal Nursing Science. Current registration with the South African Nursing
Council as a Professional Nurse (2026/2027). A minimum of 9 years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Post qualification as
Professional trained nurse, at least 5 years of the period referred to the above
must be appropriate / recognizable experience in the specific specialty after
obtaining 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Must be
willing to work shifts. Ability to provide holistic care. Knowledge And Skills: An
additional post-basic qualification of 1-year duration. Computer literacy.
Knowledge of Public Service Legislation, policies and procedures. Thorough
140
knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes, and
other relevant legal frameworks such as: Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational
Health and Safety Act, Patient Rights Charter, Batho-pele principles, etc.
Knowledge of HR policies such as: Skills Development Act, Public Service
Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Disciplinary Code and Procedure,
Grievance Procedure.
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care provided within set
standards and a professional/legal framework. Manage effectively the
utilization and supervision of resources. Coordination of the provision of
effective training and research. Provision of Effective Support to Nursing
Services. Effective utilization of resources (Human and Material) participation
with training and research. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development. Demonstrate an in depth understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how to impact on
service delivery. Ensure clinical nursing practices by the nursing team (unit) in
accordance with the scope of practice and nursing standards as determine by
the relevant health facility. Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the
professional scope of practice and standards as determined by the relevant
health facility. Demonstrate and basic understanding HR and financial policies
and practices. Demonstrate effective communication with patients, supervisor,
other health professionals and junior colleagues, including more complex
report writing when required. Work as part of multi-disciplinary team at unit level
to ensure good nursing care by the nursing team. Work effectively and
amicable, at supervisory level, with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural,
racial or religious differences. Able to manage own work, time and that of junior
colleagues to ensure proper nursing services in the unit. Display a concern for
patients, promoting, advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and
ensuring that the unit adheres to the principle of Batho Pele. Able to develop
contact, build and maintain a network of professional relations in order to
enhance service delivery. Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support
tool to enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tsoho T Tel No: (057) 916 8285
APPLICATIONS : send to: https://ihealth.gov.za/e-recruitment
POST 13/221 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY) (PNB3) (INTENSIVE
NURSING SCIENCE) REF NO: H/O/9/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, Basic R425 qualification i.e. diploma/degree in nursing or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a
duration of at least 1 year, accredited with SANC in Intensive Nursing Science.
Current registration with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional
Nurse (2026/2027). A minimum of 9 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Post qualification as Professional trained nurse, at least 5
years of the period referred to the above must be appropriate / recognizable
experience in the specific specialty after obtaining 1-year post-basic
qualification in the relevant specialty. Must be willing to work shifts. Ability to
provide holistic care. Knowledge And Skills: An additional post-basic
qualification of 1-year duration. Computer literacy. Knowledge of Public Service
Legislation, policies and procedures. Thorough knowledge of nursing care
processes and procedures, nursing statutes, and other relevant legal
frameworks such as: Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety
Act, Patient Rights Charter, Batho-Pele principles, etc. Knowledge of HR
policies such as: Skills Development Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour
Relations Act, Disciplinary Code and Procedure, Grievance Procedure.
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care provided within set
standards and a professional/legal framework. Manage effectively the
utilization and supervision of resources. Coordination of the provision of
effective training and research. Provision of Effective Support to Nursing
Services. Effective utilization of resources (Human and Material) participation
with training and research. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development. Demonstrate an in depth understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how to impact on
141
service delivery. Ensure clinical nursing practices by the nursing team (unit) in
accordance with the scope of practice and nursing standards as determine by
the relevant health facility. Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the
professional scope of practice and standards as determined by the relevant
health facility. Demonstrate and basic understanding HR and financial policies
and practices. Demonstrate effective communication with patients, supervisor,
other health professionals and junior colleagues, including more complex
report writing when required. Work as part of multi-disciplinary team at unit level
to ensure good nursing care by the nursing team. Work effectively and
amicable, at supervisory level, with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural,
racial or religious differences. Able to manage own work, time and that of junior
colleagues to ensure proper nursing services in the unit. Display a concern for
patients, promoting, advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and
ensuring that the unit adheres to the principle of Batho Pele. Able to develop
contact, build and maintain a network of professional relations in order to
enhance service delivery. Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support
tool to enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tsoho T Tel No: (057) 916 8285
APPLICATIONS : send to: https://ihealth.gov.za/e-recruitment
POST 13/222 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER PNB3 REF NO: H/O/11/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R693 096 - R778 185 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance,
Medical Aid (Optional, Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Lejweleputswa District
REQUIREMENTS : Matric, plus Diploma/ Degree in Nursing that allows registration with the SANC
as a General Nurse & Midwifery plus post basic nursing qualification in Clinical
Nursing Science, Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (Primary Health
Care). A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience after
obtaining the one year post basic qualification in the relevant specialty. Current
registration with the SANC 2026/2027. Knowledge and Skills: Good report
writing and time management skills. Understanding of nursing legislation,
ethical nursing practices and how these impacts on service delivery. Ability to
provide mentoring, team building, supervisory skills and coaching to her/his
supervisees. Good communication, interpersonal relation, counselling, conflict
management skills and decision making. Knowledge of all applicable
legislations such as Nursing Acts, Mental Act, OH&S Act, Batho Pele
Principles, and Patients' Right Charter, Labour Relations Act, Grievance
Procedures and finance policies etc. Leadership, organisation, decision
making and problem solving, conflict handling and counselling. Coordination
and planning skills. Ability to assist in formulation of patient care related
policies. the candidate should be computer literate and possess a valid &
unendorsed driver's license including competency in driving.
DUTIES : To plan, organise and monitor the objectives of the PHC facility in the
consultation with District Management & Subordinates. Provision of Quality
Nursing Care through the implementation of standards, policies and
procedures coupled with supervision and monitoring the implementation
thereof. To provide a therapeutic environment to staff, patients and the public.
To effectively manage the utilisation and supervision of human, material and
financial resources. Coordination of the provision of effective training and
research. Maintain professional growth / ethical standards and self-
development. Implement & monitor aspirations of PMDS. Implementation and
management of Infection Control and Prevention Protocols as well as
Occupational Health & Safety Standards. Maintain accurate and oversee
completion of patient records according to legal requirements. Operate and
manage relevant District Health Information Management System (DHIMS);
particularly producing top-end data. To participate in quality improvement
programmes and activities. Have insight and be able to conduct Ideal Health
Facility Realization assessments. Have deep insight into OHSC processes and
prescripts. Conduct periodical clinical audits. Participates in staff & student
development activities. Exercise independent control over discipline line,
grievance and labour relations issues according the existing policies and
procedures. Identify, develop and exercise management of risk in the
workplace. Liaise with the Sub District, District and all other essential
stakeholders. Monitor and evaluate the performance of primary health care
142
services and systems within the designated services area in line with public
health indicators, set norms, standards and targets with a view to report
thereon and to initiate corrective action timeously. Analyze health policy and
programme imperatives with a view to develop customized implementation
strategies to guide the primary health care service providers in the service area
towards complying with the stated norms, standards and targets. Identify
transversal 'primary' health care and systems barriers (including emerging
health trends in the service area) with a view to ensure corrective action at an
appropriate level. Ensure and monitor that primary health care services within
the designated services area are provided with adequate support by multi-
disciplinary teams attached to the CHC / district hospital as well as from shared
corporate service providers attached to the mothering institution. Ensure an
integrated approach with the implementation of various primary health care
programmes to provide a seamless service delivery platform, including the
prioritising of needs within the service area and the allocation of resources
accordingly. Ensure the effective and efficient utilisation of allocated resources
including the development of staff, budgetary, procurement planning and
maintenance and information management
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NF Gigi Tel No: (057) 352 2706
APPLICATIONS : send to: https://ihealth.gov.za/e-recruitment
POST 13/223 : ASSISTANT MANAGER: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
H/A/2/2026
SALARY : R602 361 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional, Employee must meet the prescribed requirements
CENTRE : Xhariep District
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Gtrade12) plus appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification Valid Driver’s
License. A Minimum of 8 years’ recognizable experience in community
development/health promotion environment. Knowledge And Skills: Strong
stakeholder engagement, financial management. Planning and Organizing
Policy formulation and implementation. Written and verbal communication
skills. Problem solving and Conflict management. Influencing skills and
Computer literate.
DUTIES : Coordinate the identification, facilitation and implementation of integrated
development interventions in partnership with other relevant stakeholders
through the efficient, effective and economical utilisation of resources by the
service delivery area(s). Coordinate and manage a community development
service delivery area(s) to ensure that an efficient and effective community
development service is delivered through the proper utilisation of human,
financial and physical resources. Keep up to date with new developments in
the community development and management fields to enhance service
delivery. Plan and ensure that research on community development is
undertaken including the facilitation of complex community development
research.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TGE Finger Tel No: (051) 713 8067
APPLICATIONS : to be send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/224 : CHIEF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH PRACTITIONER REF NO: H/C19/2026
SALARY : R575 250 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional, Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Lejweleputswa District
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 (Senior Certificate) and at least NQF 6 qualification in
Environmental Health. Registration with HPCSA as an Environmental Health
Practitioner, and in good standing. At least three (3) years’ experience in
environmental health. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge of legislation related to environmental health, project management
and stakeholder engagement. Knowledge of the International Health
Regulations. Good communication (verbal and written), planning and
organizing, supervisory, research/analysis, and problem solving as well as
computer skills (MS Office package). Ability to work well under pressure,
irregular hours, independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Management and supervision of EHP's in the District. Effective development
of staff, Plan and implement Environmental Health Strategies, Oversee and
coordinate. Environmental health services rendered by EHP's based at
different units/ facilities within the district. Liaise with other stakeholders on
143
Environmental Health related issues, support and ideal clinics. Management
and coordination of training programs in the district. Monitoring of health care
facilities in accordance to national norms and standards. Develop, implement,
and review environmental health policies and SOPs. Align Primary Health Care
environmental health practices with national health regulations. Contribute to
PHC strategic plans and quality improvement programs. Lead environmental
health response during emergencies and outbreaks. Participate in disaster and
emergency preparedness planning. Advise District leadership during
environmental health crises. Ensure ongoing training programs for PHC staff
and community awareness campaigns according to health calendar. Review
food-related incident investigations and reports. Promote environmental health
awareness at senior management level. Advise on chemical safety, hazardous
substances, and spill management. Prepare high-level reports for District
management. Provide expert advice on environmental health risks and
controls. Monitor trends, incidents, and performance indicators. Advocate for
resources, staffing, and infrastructure improvements. Investigate complaints
related to food safety related to food safety concerns, outbreaks, and any
violations to food safety regulations in collaboration with Municipal Health
services. Emergency response planning in the development of emergency
response plans for food related incidences such as food born illness outbreaks
contamination and recalls. Liaise with provincial EHS, ensure the
implementation of the department's strategies. Assist with other activities
delegated by the supervisor / manager. Provide support to District
Environmental Health Manager or Assistant Director Environmental Health on
other related activities. Execute other tasks/duties delegated by the Assistant
Director Environmental Health Manager / Supervisor. Participate in Malaria
control activities. Ensure capturing of relevant data on DHIS and other
systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NF Gigi Tel No: (057) 352 2706
APPLICATIONS : to be send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/225 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PNA5) (AFTER HOUR DUTY
MANAGER) REF NO: H/O/5/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
Grade 2: R636 126 – R723 954 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements
CENTRE : Pelonomi Tertiary Hospital, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, Basic R425 qualification i.e. diploma/degree in nursing or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council as a Professional Nurse. Current registration with the South African
Nursing Council (2026/2027). Diploma in Health Care Management will. A
minimum of 7 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Be a
South African citizen or be a permanent resident. Knowledge And Skills:
Computer literacy. Knowledge of Public Service Legislation, policies and
procedures. Thorough knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures,
nursing statutes, and other relevant legal frameworks such as: Nursing Act,
Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Patient Rights Charter, Batho-
Pele principles, etc. Knowledge of HR policies such as: Skills Development Act,
Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Disciplinary Code and
Procedure, Grievance Procedure.
DUTIES : Supervise and ensure the provision of effective and efficient patient care
through adequate nursing care. Coordinate and monitor the implementation of
nursing care plan and evaluation thereof. Provide relevant health information
to health care users to assist in achieving optimal health care and rehabilitation
of patients. Participate in the analysis, formulation and implementation of
nursing guidelines, practices, standards and procedures. Maintain constructive
working relationships with nursing and other stakeholders. Manage and
monitor proper utilization of human, financial and physical resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LP Mangoejane Tel No: (051) 405 1940
APPLICATIONS : send to: https://ihealth.gov.za/e-recruitment
144
POST 13/226 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PNA5) (GENERAL SURGERY) REF
NO: H/O/10/2026
SALARY : R549 192 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Pelonomi Tertairy Hospital, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, diploma/degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional
Nurse. Current registration with the South African Nursing Council
(2026/2027). Diploma in Health Care Management. A minimum of 7 years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Knowledge And Skills:
Computer literacy. Knowledge of Public Service Legislation, policies and
procedures. Thorough knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures,
nursing statutes, and other relevant legal frameworks such as: Nursing Act,
Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Patient Rights Charter, Batho-
Pele principles, etc. Knowledge of HR policies such as: Skills Development Act,
Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Disciplinary Code and
Procedure, Grievance Procedure.
DUTIES : Supervise and ensure the provision of effective and efficient patient care
through adequate nursing care. Coordinate and monitor the implementation of
nursing care plan and evaluation thereof. Provide relevant health information
to health care users to assist in achieving optimal health care and rehabilitation
of patients. Participate in the analysis, formulation and implementation of
nursing guidelines, practices, standards and procedures. Maintain constructive
working relationships with nursing and other stakeholders. Manage and
monitor proper utilization of human, financial and physical resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LP Mangoejane Tel No: (051) 405 1940
APPLICATIONS : send to: https://ihealth.gov.za/e-recruitment
POST 13/227 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR REF NO: H/C/15/2026
SALARY : R549 192 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Pelonomi Tertiary Hospital, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, diploma/degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional
Nurse. Current registration with the South African Nursing Council.
(2026/2027). Knowledge and Skills: Computer literacy. Knowledge of Public
Service Legislation, policies and procedures.
DUTIES : Facilitate and oversee the development of operational/business plans to give
strategic guidelines. Provide professional and technical support for the
provision of quality patient care through proper management of relevant
programmes. Develop and implement quality assurance programmes,
guidelines, protocols, norms and standards. Utilize information technology (IT)
and other management information systems to manage information for the
enhancement of service delivery. Establish, maintain and participate in inter-
professional and multi-disciplinary teamwork that promotes effective and
efficient health care. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently
and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LP Mangoejane Tel No: (051) 405 1940
APPLICATIONS : send to: https://ihealth.gov.za/e-recruitment
POST 13/228 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR REF NO: H/C/16/2026
SALARY : R549 192 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements
CENTRE : Pelonomi Tertiary Hospital, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, diploma/degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional
Nurse. Current registration with the South African Nursing Council.
(2026/2027). Knowledge and Skills: Computer literacy. Knowledge of Public
Service Legislation, policies and procedures.
DUTIES : Facilitate and oversee the development of operational/business plans to give
strategic guidelines. Provide professional and technical support for the
provision of quality patient care through proper management of relevant
programmes. Develop and implement quality assurance programmes,
145
guidelines, protocols, norms and standards. Utilize information technology (IT)
and other management information systems to manage information for the
enhancement of service delivery. Establish, maintain and participate in inter-
professional and multi-disciplinary teamwork that promotes effective and
efficient health care. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently
and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LP Mangoejane Tel No: (051) 405 1940
APPLICATIONS : send to: https://ihealth.gov.za/e-recruitment
POST 13/229 : CLINICAL PROGRAM COORDINATOR: PNA-5: HAST REF NO:
H/C/17/2026
SALARY : R549 192 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Free State Psychiatric Complex, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with SANC as Professional Nurse. Qualification in Nursing Education and
Psychiatry Nursing Science. A minimum of 7 years appropriate/ recognizable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Current registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC). Knowledge And Skills: Ability to work independently under pressure.
Knowledge of Information Management systems. Knowledge of legislation
pertaining to Skills Development and training procedures. Knowledge of
Infection Control procedures.
DUTIES : Coordinate and promote implementation of Training and Development.
Facilitate and oversee the development of operational or business plans to give
strategic guidelines. Provide professional and technical support for the
provision of quality patient care through proper management of relevant
programmes. Maintain standards and norms of Nursing practices to promote
the healthcare status of healthcare use. Develop and implement quality
assurance programmes, guidelines, protocols, norms and standard. Utilise
Information Technology (IT) and other management information systems to
manage information for the enhancement of service delivery Establish,
maintain and participate in inter professional and multi – disciplinary teamwork
that promotes effective and efficient healthcare. Manage and utilize resources
in accordance with relevant directives and legislations. Hast Extensive
knowledge and skills of the programme. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Good understanding of TB management and all treatment
policies and guidelines. Knowledge of PFMA. Be willing to travel.
ENQUIRIES : Me M.E. Semelo Tel No: (051) 407 9207
APPLICATIONS : to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment.
POST 13/230 : CLINICAL PROGRAM COORDINATOR: PNA-5: MENTAL HEALTH
&SUBSTANCE: REF NO: H/C/18/2026
SALARY : R549 192 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Free State Psychiatric Complex, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with SANC as Professional Nurse. Qualification in Nursing Education and
Psychiatry Nursing Science. A minimum of 7 years appropriate/ recognizable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Current registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC). Knowledge And Skills: Ability to work independently under pressure.
Knowledge of Information Management systems. Knowledge of legislation
pertaining to Skills Development and training procedures. Knowledge of
Infection Control procedures.
DUTIES : Coordinate and promote implementation of Training and Development.
Facilitate and oversee the development of operational or business plans to give
strategic guidelines. Provide professional and technical support for the
provision of quality patient care through proper management of relevant
programmes. Maintain standards and norms of Nursing practices to promote
the healthcare status of healthcare use. Develop and implement quality
assurance programmes, guidelines, protocols, norms and standard. Utilize
Information Technology (IT) and other management information systems to
manage information for the enhancement of service delivery. Establish,
maintain and participate in inter professional and multi – disciplinary teamwork
that promotes effective and efficient healthcare. Manage and utilize resources
in accordance with relevant directives and legislations. Mental Health &
146
Substance. Coordinating the implementation of Mental Health Care Act within
the professional and legal framework. Improve communication on Mental
Health Care Act knowledge providing support and assistance to district
hospitals listed to render 72 hours assessment services, designated regional
and tertiary hospitals, and Mental Health Review board. Strengthen Forensic
Mental Health Care services in the province by coordinating and monitoring the
period for awaiting trial detainees and state patients discharge process and
follow ups. Utilize and manage the mental health programme within the facility
so as to maximize the achievement of the strategic goals/ AOP, improved
quality, risk and information management. Manage and utilize resource (
human, finance, material and facilities) in accordance with the relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Me M.E. Semelo Tel No: (051) 407 9207
APPLICATIONS : to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/231 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY PNB 1 REF NO: H/P/14/2026 (X1
POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 - R549 192 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R713 253 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional, Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Xhariep District
REQUIREMENTS : grade 12 or equivalent qualification, plus basic r425 qualification i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as a professional Nurse. Current
registration with the SANC 2026/2027. Post basic qualification with a duration
of at least 1-year curative skills in primary health care accredited with SANC.
Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate / recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in general
Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate / recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in general Nursing. Skills And Knowledge: Good interpersonal skills. Good
communication skills. Computer literacy. Empathetic and compassionate.
ability to work under pressure in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provision of quality comprehensive community health care. Provide primary
preventative health care. Provide curative health care services Referral to
health support services. (rehabilitation, oral health etc. Doctors etc. Specialist)
Evaluate and follow-up patients during clinic visits. Initiate treatment,
implementation of programmes and evaluations of patients’ clinical conditions.
Promoting scientific quality nursing care Individual consultation sessions
Identify community needs Initiate minor ailment treatment Initiate community
participation. Coordinate between hospital and community. Maintaining
professional secrecy and preventing medico-legal risks. Attend and participate
in doctors’ visit. Arrange admission and outpatient appointments. Function as
a member of the therapeutic team. Continuous evaluation of nursing care and
nursing services. Assessment of personal services delivery towards patients.
Provision of administration services.·Plan and organize daily tasks in clinic in
co-operation with Clinical Manager. Complete and control Health Information
data of all patients and activities as per policy. Ordering and control of
stationary, medical stock, consumables as per delegation in absence of
personnel responsible for different services. Ensure the safekeeping of stock
and assets. Ordering and control of medication as necessary as per
delegations in absence of Pharmacist Assistant. Control of medicine
prescribed to patients as per EDL. Up to date knowledge of appropriate
legislation, regulations and departmental policies. Involvement with community
meetings and committees in co-operation with Operational Manager. Identify
needs for financial planning and indirect control of expenditure. Provision of
educational services: Clinical teaching, training and continuous evaluation of
sub-category nursing personnel and support services in the clinic Manager.
Teaching patients on a one-to one basis. Personnel development, i.e.
Assessing in-service training needs, planning and implementing of training
programme in co-operation with clinical Manager. Usage of equipment and
machinery: Usage of basic medical equipment. Research responsibility Direct
and indirect involvement with medical research Involvement with matching
research to the needs of the community.
ENQUIRIES : Mr IL Moisi Tel No: (051) 713 8050
147
APPLICATIONS : to be send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/232 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY PNB1-2 REF NO: H/P/15/2026 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 - R549 192 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R713 253 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional, Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Lejweleputswa District
REQUIREMENTS : Matric, plus Diploma/Degree in nursing that allows registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse plus post basic nursing qualification in Clinical Nursing
Science, Health Assessment, Treatment and care (Primary Health Care) with
duration of at least 1 year accredited with SANC. Grade 1: Minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognizable experience after registration as Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years
appropriate/recognizable experience after registration as Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the 1 year
post basic qualification as mentioned above. Knowledge And Skills: Ability to
plan and organise own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper
nursing care. Effective communication with all stakeholders & report writing
aptitude. Display uncompromising concern for patients, promoting and
advocating proper treatment and care including awareness and willingness to
respond to patients' needs, requirements and expectations (Batho Pele).
Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and other related legal
frameworks.
DUTIES : Management of comprehensive PHC services and PHC re-engineering, key
priority programmes, ideal health facility and regulated standards. Provide
more complex and advanced comprehensive nursing treatment and care to
patients in a cost effective, efficient and equitable manner. Act as a leader, plan
and implement health promotion and prevention activities. Link to the
community structures and community-based services. Competently collect and
manage data generated and be able to report on it. Exercise and maintain high
and quality record-keeping standards. Oversee and supervise subordinates
within the facility. Provide PHC services to other facilities in Sub-District 3 & 4
as and when the need arises.
ENQUIRIES : Me. Makhoali-Nkadimeng Tel No: (051) 408 1000
APPLICATIONS : to be send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/233 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY PNB 1-2 REF NO: H/P/16/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367- R549 192 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 - R713 253 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional, Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Dihlabeng Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification i.e diploma/ degree in nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council as
a Professional Nurse. A post -basic qualification, with a duration of at least 1
year, accredited with the SANC in one of the specialties. A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after registration with SANC in
a Professional Nurse in General nursing. Current registration with the South
African Nursing Council (2026/2027) s Professional Nurse. Post basic
qualification, with duration of at least 1 year accredited with SANC in Specialist
Intensive Care Unit/ Nerphrology. Knowledge and Skills: An additional post
basic qualification of one-year duration, Computer Literacy, must be willing to
work shifts, Ability to provide holistic care.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/ Legal framework. Effective utilization of resource (Human
&Material), Participation with training and research, Provision of support to
nursing services. Maintain professional growth/ ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Me. D.E Masheane Tel No: (058) 303 0173
APPLICATIONS : send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
148
POST 13/234 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: PNB-1 REF NO: H/P/17/2026 (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Free State Psychiatric Complex, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council. A minimum of 4 years appropriate/
recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse in General Nursing and Midwifery. Registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse. 1 Year post
basic qualification in Advanced or Child Psychiatry. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of the legal framework appropriate for nursing practice. Good
communication skills and interpersonal relations. Knowledge of Mental Health
Act, procedures and legislation.
DUTIES : Provide more complex and advanced comprehensive nursing treatment and
care to patients in specialty unit in a cost effective, efficient and equitable
manner. Give direction and supervision for the implementation of the Nursing
plan (clinical practice /quality patient care) as a shift leader. Implement
standards, practices, criteria and indicators for quality Nursing (quality of
practice). Practice nursing and health care in accordance with the laws and
regulations relevant to Nursing and Health Care. Maintain a constructive
working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders. Utilize human,
material and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Ensure that a holistic
nursing care service is delivered to all patients I a cost effective, efficient and
equitable manner by the unit. Ensure compliance to professional and ethical
practice. Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation an related legal
and ethical nursing practices.
ENQUIRIES : Me M.E. Semelo, Tel No: (051) 407 9207
APPLICATIONS : to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/235 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: PNB-1: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH REF NO:
H/P/18/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Free State Psychiatric Complex, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council. A minimum of 4 years appropriate/
recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse in General Nursing and Midwifery. Registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse. 1 Year post
basic qualification in Occupational Health Nursing Science. Knowledge And
Skills Ability to work independently under pressure. Knowledge of Occupational
health nursing science. Knowledge of legislation pertaining to Occupational
Health & Safety Act and COIDA. Dispensing certificate.
DUTIES : Conducts physical assessments to diagnose common medical conditions and
chronic ill health presented at the occupational health facility. Conducts a
health surveillance to identify and evaluate health needs of workers in the
workplace. Identifies and analyses hazards and evaluates their effects on
workers and the workplace. Facilitate and oversee the development of
occupational health programs. Provide professional and technical support for
the provision of quality client care through proper management of relevant
programmes. Maintain standards and norms of Nursing practices to promote
the healthcare status of healthcare workers. Plans and manages healthcare
within the occupational health environment to provide care within ethical
norms. Promotes health communication and health literacy for behaviour
change. Designs programmes that support a positive lifestyle and individual
efforts to lower the risk of disease and injury. Plans, implements and evaluates
health promotion campaigns within a team approach. Compiles/Conducts
Occupational Risk Exposure Profiles (OREP) at pre-employment, periodic and
exit levels of interventions. Manages occupational injuries and diseases in
order to minimise residual deficit. Utilise Information Technology (IT) and other
management information systems to manage information for the enhancement
of service delivery. Identifies the need for EAP for the following health related
issues: HIV, STI, alcoholism, substance abuse, chronic diseases, psychosocial
conditions, shift work, vulnerable groups such as healthcare workers, violence
and executive health management and advises on or refers employees to EAP.
149
Manage and utilize resources in accordance with relevant directives and
legislations.
ENQUIRIES : Me M.E. Semelo Tel No: (051) 407 9207
APPLICATIONS : to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/236 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
H/A/11/2026
SALARY : R468 459 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional, Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Xhariep District
REQUIREMENTS : Matric (Grade12) plus tertiary qualification in Human Resource Management
or related areas at NQF 6. Three (3) years relevant experience at supervisory
level. Relevant PERSAL certificates. Valid Driver’s License. Knowledge And
Skills: Ability to communicate issues in a tactful manner. Problem solving skills.
Computer skills. Numeracy skills. Knowledge of the PERSAL System.
Knowledge of Public Service Policies and implementation strategies.
Knowledge of Human Resource Management Legislation/Directives.
Knowledge and understanding of Human Resource Management environment.
DUTIES : Rendering a professional human resource management service on: Conditions
of Service and service benefits (Leave, Housing, Medical, Injury on Duty,
Terminations, Long Service Recognition, overtime, re-allocation, Pension,
Allowances etc.).HR Provisioning (Recruitment and Selection, Appointments,
Transfer, temporary employment, verification of qualifications, secretariat
functions at interviews, probationary periods etc.). Address human resource
management enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human
resource management administration. Prepare and consolidate reports on
personnel administration issues. Provide inputs on the
development/amendments of Human Resource Management Policies. Inform,
guide and advice Department/ personnel on human resource administration
matters to enhance the correct implementation of personnel administration
policies. Conduct HR Audits. Coordinate submission of information for audit
queries. Monitor implementation of Audit action plan. Attend to queries/
complaints pertaining to Human Resource Practices. Report on activities of the
Sub-Directorate. Management of staff within the component. The development
and updating of Job Descriptions for reporting staff. The performance
management of staff within the component. Facilitation of training
interventions. Give direction, guidance and advice to staff within the
component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TGE Finger Tel No: (051) 713 8067
APPLICATIONS : to be send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/237 : ARTISAN FOREMAN REF NO: H/12/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R382 047 per annum
Grade B: R453 609 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional, Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Albert Nzula District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and appropriate trade test certificate as recognized by SAQA. driver’s
license. A minimum of 5 years recognizable experience as Artisan production.
Knowledge And Skills: Planning Communication Report writing Training
Coordination Computer Literacy Organizing Monitor & Evaluation Skills in trade
Ability to operate equipment and machinery Skills in Trade Literacy Skills Time
Management Problem Solving Numeracy. Building safety programs and
protocols and SCM procedure. Knowledge of appropriate field as an Artisan.
Knowledge of Public Financial Management Act, Public Service Regulation
2016, as amended.
DUTIES : Planning of work to be performed. Implement equipment maintenance
program. Execute inspections of buildings equipment according to program.
Ensure that work is executed according to set standards and policies. Repair
broken equipment. Attend to job requests (H24). Do preventative maintenance
of building / equipment. Record completed H24’s of the section Obtain
quotations in respect of stock and materials Complete PA1 LOGIS forms for
request of equipment, tools and materials. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TGE Finger Tel No: (051) 713 8067
APPLICATIONS : to be send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
150
POST 13/238 : ARTISAN FOREMAN REF NO: H/A/13/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R382 047 per annum
Grade B: R453 609 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional, Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Embekweni District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and appropriate trade test certificate as recognized by SAQA.
Driver’s License. A minimum of 5 years recognizable experience as Artisan
production. Knowledge And Skills: Planning Communication Report writing
Training Coordination Computer Literacy Organizing Monitor & Evaluation
Skills in trade Ability to operate equipment and machinery Skills in Trade
Literacy Skills Time Management Problem Solving Numeracy. Building safety
programs and protocols and SCM procedure. Knowledge of appropriate field
as an Artisan. Knowledge of Public Financial Management Act, Public Service
Regulation 2016, as amended.
DUTIES : Planning of work to be performed. Implement equipment maintenance
program. Execute inspections of buildings equipment according to program.
Ensure that work is executed according to set standards and policies. Repair
broken equipment. Attend to job requests (H24). Do preventative maintenance
of building / equipment. Record completed H24’s of the section Obtain
quotations in respect of stock and materials Complete PA1 LOGIS forms for
request of equipment, tools and materials. Supervision of staff
ENQUIRIES : Mr TGE Finger Tel No: (051) 713 8067
APPLICATIONS : to be send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/239 : EMS SHIFT LEADER GRADE III: REF NO: H/E/3/2026
SALARY : R335 226 – R375 381 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance,
Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements
CENTRE : EMS Thabo Mofutsunyane District (Ems Warden / Ems Bethlehem Control
Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, Successful completion of Ambulance Emergency Assistant
Course, Current registration with Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as an AEA, 3 Years after registration with the HPCSA as an AEA,
Knowledge of Intermediate Life Support Protocols, Valid Driving Permit (PrDP),
Valid Code 10 (C1) Driver’s license Knowledge And Skills: Previous experience
at supervisory level, Knowledge of Supply Chain and Financial Management,
Be able to work under pressure and excessive hours, Be prepared to travel,
Knowledge of Labour Relations, Computer literacy, Strong communication
skills (verbal and written), Rescue qualification, Knowledge of Free State
Province.
DUTIES : Management of shift, General office administration, Personnel Management,
Fleet Management, Asset Management, Management of leave, second control
of duty ledgers, Analyse and sign off Patient Report Forms, Rendering of
Intermediate Life Support, Management of major incidents, Compile
Management reports, Manage and maintain response time, attend district
management meetings, attend community meetings, maintain discipline on
shift, Do any other duties assigned by station Manager Attend to standby during
events, Completion of trip authorities, Maintain check lists of vehicles and
equipment, Implementation of SOP, policies and circulars.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PJ Visagie at (060) 985 1353
APPLICATIONS : send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/240 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER (ECO) REF NO: H/E/1/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R187 488 – R214 368 per annum
Grade 2- 3: R217 983 – R286 521 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional, Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Lejweleputswa District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: National Senior Certificate, Successful completion of an appropriate
Basic Life Support (BLS) course that allows registration with HPCSA as Basic
Ambulance Assistant (BAA). Registration with the HPCSA as BAA. None after
registration with the HPCSA as BAA. Grade 3: Successful completion of an
appropriate Intermediate Life Support (ILS) course that allows registration with
151
HPCSA as an Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). Registration with the
HPCSA as AEA. Experience: None after registration with HPCSA as AEA.
Current registration with the HPCSA 2026/2027. A valid code 10 driver’s
license with PDP. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of Basic Life Support
protocols. Knowledge of Intermediate Life Support protocols.
DUTIES : Render Emergency Medical Care and Transportation of the sick and injured
according to HPCSA protocols. Handle Basic administration, patient records,
vehicles checklists, log sheets and other necessary administrative duties.
Maintain and clean all equipment, vehicles and base station. Undertake inter –
facility transfers of patients. Any other duties assigned by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. NF Gigi Tel No: (057) 352 2706
APPLICATIONS : to be send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
POST 13/241 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GR1-GR3 REF NO: H/E/2/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R187 488 – R214 368 per annum
Grade 3: R217 983 – R278 115 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements
CENTRE : Xhariep District
REQUIREMENTS : Matric, Current registration with the health Professions Council of South Africa
HPCSA 2026/2027. Valid Public Driving Permit. Valid code 10 Driver’s license
Grade 1: Successful completion of an appropriate, Basic Life Support, (BLS)
Course that allows registration with the HPCSA as Basic Ambulance Assistant
(BAA) Registration with the HPCSA as BAA, None after registration with the
HPCSA as BAA. Grade 3: Successful Completion of an appropriate
intermediate Life Support (BLS) Course that allows registration with the
HPCSA as Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). None after registration
with the HPCSA as AEA. Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of AEA Protocols
be able to work under pressure and excessive hours. Be prepared to travel,
good driving skills, strong communication skills (verbal and written) knowledge
of Free State Province.
DUTIES : Render Emergency Medical Care and Transport. Attend accident scenes.
Complete Patient Report Forms. Analyze Patient Report Forms. Clean and
Maintain emergency vehicles. Execute infection Control Policy. Maintain
response time. Do any other duties assigned by shift leader or supervisor. Be
available for Standby during events, Complete check lists for vehicles and
equipment and ensure functionality. Complete trip authority forms and logs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LJ Basson Tel No: (051) 713 8063
APPLICATIONS : to be send to: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applications for the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure to be
submitted to: Head: Public Works and Infrastructure, Human Resources
Management Directorate. P.O Box 7551, Bloemfontein, 9300 OR Applications
that are hand delivered must be brought at the Foyer of OR Tambo House
where they must be placed in the appropriately marked box at: Security Ground
Floor, OR Tambo House, St. Andrews Street, Bloemfontein or e-mail to e-
recruitmentfsdpwi@fsworks.gov.za. No Applications will be accepted by staff in
offices in the building.
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026
NOTE : Directions to applicants Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Z83 application form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at http://www.info.gov.za. The Z83 should be completed in a manner
that allows the selection committee to assess the application based on the
information provided on the form. Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit
the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication. If the certified copies contradict the
details on the CV or Z83 form, the candidate will automatically be disqualified
and removed from the shortlist. Should an applicant possess a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Applicants must
indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications. Should an
152
applicant wish to apply for more than one post, separate applications must be
submitted i.e. all the documentation must be submitted for each post applied
for. Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply
with these instructions will not be considered. Candidates requiring additional
information regarding the advertised post should direct their enquiries to the
relevant person as indicated in the advertisement. Note: Successful completion
of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the
National School of Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Short-listed candidates will
on the day of interview undergo a security assessment. Suitable candidates
will be subjected to personnel suitability checks as deemed appropriate and
inclusive inter alia of criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record checks, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification. If you have not been contacted within 4 months of the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Faxed or late applications will NOT be accepted.
OTHER POST
POST 13/242 : PROFESSIONAL CIVIL ENGINEER REF NO: PWI 26/11
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (all-inclusive package), (OSD). The remuneration
package consists of the basic salary, the Government contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund, and a flexible portion which may be
structured according to the member’s needs.
CENTRE : Head Office (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor of Science Degree in Civil Engineering or equivalent NQF 7
qualification. Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South
Africa (ECSA) as a Civil Engineer. Valid driver’s licence with exception of
persons with disabilities. Core and Process Competencies: Programme and
project management. Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Research
and development. Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of
legal compliance. Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture.
Professional judgment. Networking. Decision making. Team leadership.
Analytic skills. Creativity. Self-management. Financial management. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer literacy. Planning and
organising. Conflict management. Problem solving and analysis. People
management.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical engineering challenges and improve
efficiency and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain engineering
projects; Develop cost effective solutions according to standards; Evaluate
existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate
new technology; Develop tender specifications; Ensure through evaluation that
planning and design by others is done according to sound engineering
principles and according to norms and standards and code of practice; and
Approve engineering works according to prescribed norms and standards.
Ensure training and development of technicians, technologist and candidate
engineers to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound
engineering principles and code of practice; Supervisee the engineering work
and processes; and Administer performance management and development.
Manage resources and budget planning. Prepare and consolidate inputs for
the facilitation of resource utilisation. Ensure adherence to regulations and
procedures for procurement and personnel administration; Monitor and control
expenditure and report on expenditure and service delivery. Continuous
professional development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature studies on engineering technology to improve expertise.
Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Jeppe – Acting Head Project Management Unit: Public Works and
Infrastructure Tel No: (051) 492 3718
153
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
The Free State Provincial Government is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. It is our
intention to promote representativity (race, gender and disability) in the province through the filling of
these posts and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote representativity will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Effective from 1 April 2026, the Free State Provincial Treasury now utilises an
e-Recruitment System (applicants must submit their applications via the online
link https://www.erecruitment.fs.gov.za) which means all applicants must
login/register to apply for positions, we only accept hand delivered/posted
applications should an applicant prove that he/she tried to apply via e-
Recruitment with no success and the Free State Provincial Treasury
Information Technology Sub-directorate was unable to assist.
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026
NOTE : The applicant’s profile on the eRecruitment is equivalent to the newly approved
Z83, and it is the responsibility of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully
completed or their applications will not be considered, as per the DPSA
Practice Note. Accompanying documentation will still be required to be
uploaded on the system such as copies of all qualifications including National
Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, Driver’s license, ID, etc., however these
documents need not be certified at point of application, however certification
will be required prior to attending the interview. Only short-listed candidates will
be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on, or before the day of the interview following an invitation from
the Department to attend an interview, and such qualification(s) and other
related document(s) should be in line with the requirements of the
advertisement. For SMS posts in the Public Service, no appointment shall be
effected without the recommended candidate producing a Certificate of
completion for the Nyukela Programme (SMS Pre-Entry Programme) offered
by the National School of Government which can be accessed via the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Recommended candidates will also be required to undergo a competency
assessment The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement and will also be required
to disclose his/her financial interests. Applications received after the closing
date and those that do not comply with these instructions will not be
considered. Candidates who possess foreign qualifications and/or short
courses certificates must take it upon themselves to have their qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applicants are
respectfully informed that if no notification of appointment is received within 4
months of the closing date, they must accept that their applications were
unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks (criminal record check, citizenship verification, financial assets check,
qualification verification and reference checks). The Department reserves the
right not to make appointments on the advertised post(s). All queries must be
submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment Support
Team on: recruitment@treasury.fs.gov.za (no applications). Free State
Provincial Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/243 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT REF NO: FSPT:
002/26
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive salary package), (This all –
inclusive flexible remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the
Government’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion that may be structured according to specific rules)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A bachelor’s degree or advanced diploma (NQF level 7) qualification in
Commerce/Management/Public Administration, with a minimum of five (5)
years’ Senior Managerial level experience in an asset/liability
management/supply chain management/financial management environment.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
154
Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, Broad Based
Black Economic Empowerment Act and supply chain management policies.
Working knowledge of transversal systems such as the Central Supplier
Database (CSD), LOGIS, BAS and PERSAL. Must possess the following skills:
Strategic capability-, policy development-, asset and liability management
processes/practices-, monitoring and evaluation-, business communication-,
interpersonal-, analytical-, supervisory-, leadership-, and report writing.
Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Monitoring the effectiveness and efficiency of the management of assets,
supply chain management, and public private partnership projects. Oversee
the management and implementation and maintenance of transversal financial
systems (LOGIS, BAS, PERSAL and Information Systems). Manage the
resources of the Chief Directorate to ensure proper functioning of the Chief
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P E Lebone at 082 803 4075 (Office hours only) /
recruitment@treasury.fs.gov.za
POST 13/244 : DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT REF NO: FSPT: 003/26
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary package), (This all –
inclusive flexible remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the
Government’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion that may be structured according to specific rules)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree or Advanced Diploma (NQF level 7) qualification in a Built
environment: Architecture, Quantity Surveying, Construction Management,
Civil Engineering, Town Planning or equivalent qualification. A minimum of five
(5) years’ relevant Middle/Senior Managerial level experience in the built
environment. Extensive knowledge of the Infrastructure Delivery Management
System (IDMS) and water & sanitation projects. Knowledge of the Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Municipal Finance Management Act
(MFMA), Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act & Regulations, Public
Service policies & procedures and project management. Understanding of local
government legislation, financial ratios and their interpretation. Working
knowledge of the functioning of National/Provincial as well as the local sphere
of Government. Must possess the following skills: Problem solving and
innovation capability, good interpersonal, strategic capability, leadership and
analytical skills. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Oversee and support provincial & municipal infrastructure performance
management. Support and monitor financial management of provincial and
municipal infrastructure. Support and monitor provincial and municipal
infrastructure planning portfolio management. Support and monitor provincial
and municipal projects/programmes. Support and monitor operations, services
and maintenance of infrastructure. Manage the resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Tadi at 060 960 3303 (Office hours only) /
recruitment@treasury.fs.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/245 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PERFORMANCE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: FSPT 004/26 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package), (This all-
inclusive flexible remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the
Government’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion, which may be structured in terms of the rules for the structuring
of the flexible portion and which may include a 13th cheque, motor car
allowance, housing allowance and medical aid assistance).
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant degree or equivalent qualification in Engineering/Built
environment/Quantity Surveying with a minimum of five (5) years’ experience
in a junior management position/Assistant Director level in monitoring of
infrastructure projects/programmes. Extensive knowledge and understanding
of public service policies and procedures. Knowledge of the Infrastructure
Delivery Management System (IDMS), water & sanitation projects, Municipal
Finance Management Act (MFMA), Treasury Regulations, financial
management and project management. Working knowledge of the functioning
155
of National/Provincial as well as local sphere of Government. Must possess the
following skills: good interpersonal, organizing, planning and analytical skills.
Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Support municipal infrastructure performance management. Monitor municipal
infrastructure financial management. Provide guidance on infrastructure
planning portfolio management. Provide guidance on infrastructure
projects/programmes. Support infrastructure capacity building initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Tadi at 060 960 3303 (Office hours only) /
recruitment@treasury.fs.gov.za
POST 13/246 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PERFORMANCE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: FSPT 005/26
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package), (This all-
inclusive flexible remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the
Government’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion, which may be structured in terms of the rules for the structuring
of the flexible portion and which may include a 13th cheque, motor car
allowance, housing allowance and medical aid assistance).
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant degree or equivalent qualification in Engineering/Built
environment/Quantity Surveying with a minimum of five (5) years’ experience
in a junior management position/Assistant Director level in monitoring of
infrastructure projects/programmes. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Division of Revenue Act, Intergovernmental
Relations Act and Treasury Regulations, financial management and project
management. Must possess the following skills: good interpersonal,
organizing, planning and analytical skills. Valid driver’s license. Extensive
knowledge of the Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS).
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Support provincial infrastructure performance management. Monitor provincial
infrastructure financial management. Provide guidance on infrastructure
planning portfolio management. Provide guidance on infrastructure
projects/programmes. Support infrastructure capacity building initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Tadi at 060 960 3303 (Office hours only) /
recruitment@treasury.fs.gov.za
POST 13/247 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL ACCOUNTING AND ASSET
MANAGEMENT REF NO: FSPT 006/26 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package), (This all-
inclusive flexible remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the
Government’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a
flexible portion, which may be structured in terms of the rules for the structuring
of the flexible portion and which may include a 13th cheque, motor car
allowance, housing allowance and medical aid assistance)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A three year degree or diploma in Accounting, Economics, Municipal/Public
Finance or equivalent qualification with Accounting 3 as a major subject and a
minimum of five (5) years’ experience in an accounting environment of which
three (3) years should have been on an Assistant Director/junior management
level. Knowledge of the Municipal Finance Management Act, Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Division of Revenue Act and
Municipal Structures Act. Must possess the following skills: Leadership-, report
writing-, analytical-, communication-, presentation-, project management-, and
conflict management. Computer literate. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Promote adherence to Generally Recognized Accounting Practice (GRAP)
standards and timeous submission of credible financial statements. Report on
compliance to National / Provincial Treasury reforms. Report on the readiness
of municipalities to compile annual financial statements (AFS). Review and
report on the quality of annual financial statements submitted. Promote the
improvement of audit outcomes in municipalities. Provide accounting services
and support to promote sound financial management in municipalities. Support
monitoring and compliance with accounting and asset management. Manage
the resources of the Sub-directorate to ensure effective and efficient
operations.
156
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Nkomonde at 082 890 1665 (Office hours only) /
recruitment@treasury.fs.gov.za
POST 13/248 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING
REF NO: FSPT 007/26
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant Degree or Advanced Diploma (NQF level 7) in Financial Accounting
or equivalent qualification with accounting III as major subject and a minimum
of three (3) years’ experience in an accounting environment. Knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Generally Recognised Accounting
Principles (GRAP), Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act and Regulations,
Financial Systems (BAS, LOGIS & PERSAL), and SCOA. Must possess the
following skills: communication-, problem solving-, organizing and planning-,
report writing-, and analytical. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Prepare inputs for the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Province to
ensure accurate and complete reporting. Monitor and perform assessments of
the submission of mandatory financial accounting information within the
province. Promote the compilation of annual financial statements that includes
conducting training to ensure credible accounting information. Assess the
progress made by Departments and entities on resolutions emanating from the
Provincial Public Accounts Committee (PROPAC). Manage resources to
ensure the smooth running of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M E Modupi: recruitment@treasury.fs.gov.za
POST 13/249 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL ACCOUNTING COMPLIANCE REF
NO: 008/26
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A degree in Financial Accounting or equivalent qualification (NQF level 7) with
accounting as a major subject. A minimum of three years’ experience in an
accounting environment. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Public Service Regulations and Treasury Regulations, Financial
Systems, BAS and applicable Instruction Notes. Computer literacy. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and provide training within the Free State Provincial Government
to ensure capacity building. Compile provincial instruction notes, guidelines
and procedure manuals in order to ensure implementation and adherence by
all provincial departments. Amend and implement National Treasury prescripts.
Compile, consolidate and verify KCM assessments and reports to promote
accurate and credible accounting information for the allocated
department/entities. Evaluate asset and liability items and any new financial
systems to ensure adherence to Provincial and National norms and standards.
Verify delegations against requirements and maintain financial management
information for provincial departments and entities. Ensure the successful
implementation of banking arrangements for provincial departments. Manage
resources to ensure the smooth running of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. K E Mogane: recruitment@treasury.fs.gov.za
POST 13/250 : SECRETARY: OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR: SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
FSPT 009/26
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate with typing experience and relevant experience within
the Public Service environment. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies,
the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Public Service Regulations.
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Director. Provide
clerical support to the Director. Remain up to date regarding prescripts or
policies and procedures applicable to her or his work terrain to ensure efficient
and effective support to the Director. Render supply chain management
support services to the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Mhlambi at 082 802 5242 (Office hours only) /
recruitment@treasury.fs.gov.za
157
POST 13/251 : SECRETARY: OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL ACCOUNTING
AND ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: FSPT 010/26
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate and experience within the Public Service environment.
Knowledge of relevant legislations and policies Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), Public Service Regulations and Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial or receptionist support service to the Director. Provides
clerical support to the Director. Remains up to date with regard to prescripts or
policies and procedures applicable to her or his work terrain to ensure efficient
and effective support to the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Moduane at 0833891778 (Office hours only) /
recruitment@treasury.fs.gov.za
158
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the above position, please apply online at
http://professionaljobcentre.gpg.gov.za or Hand Deliver: Ground floor 56 Eloff
Street, Umnotho House, Johannesburg and applications quoting the relevant
reference number must be submitted on the New Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. Gugu Nevondo at 072 904 1694– Recruitment
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026, 16h00. No late applications will be considered.
NOTE : Applications with the Old Z83 form will not be considered. A NEW Z.83 form
must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the applicant. A recent,
comprehensive CV, specifying all qualifications and experience, with
respective dates must accompany the application form. Applications are not
required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on
application. Communication regarding certified documents will be limited only
to the shortlisted candidates. Successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela certificate) is required before the
appointment can be made. Enrolment for the course should be made on the
NSG’s website at https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification. Note: It is the Department intention to
promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in the
Employment Equity Plan (Coloreds and Indians are encouraged apply). To
facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability
status is required. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must
be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). General information. The Department will not
accept posted and emailed applications. The Gauteng Department of
Environment reserves the right to fill or not fill the advertised posts. If you do
not receive any response from us within 3 months, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/252 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: AGRICULTURE REF NO: REFS/048322
Branch: Agriculture
SALARY : R1 813 183 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate plus (NQF level 8) Post Graduate qualification in Agriculture/
Veterinary Services/ Business Administration/ Management as recognised by
SAQA. 8 years of relevant experience at Senior Managerial level in the Public
Sector. Driver’s License. Nyukela SMS pre-entry certificate submitted prior to
appointment, ethics compliance certificate. Competencies: Planning and
organizing, Problem solving, Initiative, Negotiation, Project management,
Decision making, Service delivery innovation, Resilience, Management skills,
Self-motivation, Report writing, Verbal communication, Facilitation skills,
Written communication, PFMA, Treasury Regulation, GRAP, GAAP, PSA, PSR,
etc. Interpersonal skills, financial management, Customer service, Strategic
Management, knowledge of Departmental policies and procedures,
Government Priorities, State Forests Act, the Subdivision of Agricultural Land
Act, the Conservation of Agricultural Resources Act (CARA), Reporting
procedures, Information system, PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain
159
Policy framework, Public Service Act, 1994 and Public Service Regulations
2016, SA Constitution and Employment Equity Act,1998.
DUTIES : To oversee the management and provision of agriculture development, Agro-
processing industry development & support and integrated rural development
services. Manage and ensure the provision of sustainable resource
management services. Manage and ensure the provision of farmer support and
development services. Manage and ensure the provision of integrated rural
development services. Manage and ensure the provision of agricultural
economics services. Manage and ensure the provision of agriculture research
and technology development services. Manage and ensure the establishment
and growth of enterprises for Agro-processing products. Ensure the prevention
and control of animal diseases and provide primary animal health care and
advisory services. Manage the provision of agriculture public health services.
Manage the provision of veterinary transversal services. Manage infrastructure
portfolio management services. Manage the implementation of infrastructure
Programme and projects including maintenance and design of farm structures.
Oversee the provision of professional built environment services to all units.
Manage development initiatives in the rural nodes of Gauteng. Oversee the
coordination of integrated rural development initiatives across the province.
Oversee the implementation of sector transformation services. Oversee and
ensure discipline. Assess the performance of management. Consolidate and
manage of budget for executive support directorate. Authorise, control and
monitor the budget and expenditure. Manage the compilation of various reports
and statistics. Manage leave.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Gugu Nevondo at 072 904 1694
POST 13/253 : DIRECTOR: STRATEGY AND PLANNING REF NO: REFS/048323
Directorate: Strategy And Planning
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate plus (NQF level 7) qualification in Public
Administration/Management/ Business Administration/ Management as
recognised by SAQA. 5 years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level
in Research/ Monitoring & Evaluation or Strategy environment. Nyukela SMS
pre-entry certificate submitted prior to appointment. Valid Driver’s license.
Competencies: Relevant Public Service Legislation, GDARD and GPG
policies, Research Methodologies, Strategic Planning, Knowledge of GPG
executive and political structures, financial management, presentation Skills,
Report Writing, Communication and Negotiation Skills, Planning and
Organising, Analytical skills and Leadership Skills.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate departmental strategic planning process and
coordinate the development and maintenance of strategic policy frameworks,
and Service Delivery Improvement Plan of the Department. Manage the
development of Strategic Plans, Annual Performance Plans, Operational Plans
and Policy Review and Development. Manage the development and
implementation departmental planning & policy systems and procedures.
Participate in the departmental and provincial government planning processes.
Provide guidance to the department on planning processes, policy review &
development, and implementation of policies. Co-ordinate research on
departmental policies and update policy register. Participate and manage the
coordination of the development of departmental plans and policies. Manage
coordination and interaction with other departments and stakeholders on
aspects of work / issues related to the GDARD mandate. Participate in
departmental and sector forums relating to performance management.
Manage the SEAIS processes for planning purposes. Compile presentations
for planning and policy sub-unit. Participate constructively in the component
and departmental meetings as required. Provide support during audits of
performance information. Develop Monitoring and evaluation framework.
Consolidate and analyse GPG and national requirement for monitoring and
evaluation. Design and develop monitoring and evaluation framework,
institutionalised frameworks. Consult on framework and get approval for
implementation. Evaluate strategy implemented monitoring and evaluations
insights and opinions. Develop monitoring tools institutional processes, best
practice and monitoring and evaluation frameworks. Validate develop tools with
internals stakeholders for effectiveness. Evaluate and monitor for effective
implementation of monitoring and evaluation initiatives. People Management.
160
Sign performance agreements for the Directorate based on approved Job
Descriptions, Strategic and Annual Performance Plans of the Department.
Manage human resources in the Directorate and maintain discipline. Manage
training and development of personnel according to agreed training
interventions. Manage the provision of equipment required by personnel for
achievement of outputs in their respective Job Descriptions. Provide regular
verbal and written feedback [aligned to quarterly performance assessments] to
personnel on performance. Mentor and coach personnel. Determine the
human resources needs of the Directorate in consultation with Corporate
Services. Develop and update the service delivery and work plan for the
Directorate. Provide sufficient guidance to personnel in terms of the service
delivery plan, work plans, core business roles and priorities of the Department
through quarterly personnel meetings. Manage skills transfer between
personnel in the Directorate and outside technical assistants and/or
consultants. Plan and allocate work responsibilities and processes to control
work performance including quality assurance. Financial Management,
Manage funds in the Directorate in compliance with Public Finance
Management Act and the Treasury Regulations. Limit under spending or
overspending by the Directorate in terms of the departmental budget
allocations. Manage the effective spending of infrastructure grant funding. align
the strategic priorities and the work plans of the Directorate with the Chief
Directorate. Develop operational plans for the Directorate and work plans for
each staff member in the Directorate and Provide written contributions to
departmental quarterly progress reports, Annual Report, SCOPA, Budget
speeches, Annual Performance Plan, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Gugu Nevondo at 072 904 1694
POST 13/254 : DIRECTOR: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/048324
Directorate: Facility Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate plus (NQF level 7) qualification in Facilities Management/
Security Management/ Transport Management/Public Management as
recognised by SAQA. 5 years of experience at middle/senior managerial level
in facilities/security management environment. Valid Driver’s license. Nyukela
SMS pre-entry certificate submitted prior to appointment. Competencies: GPG
and DID policies and procedures, relevant legislation and Public Service
Regulations, understanding of expectations of customers, Knowledge of
Contracts and Legal Prescripts, Management information knowledge, Project
management methodologies, Policy development, change management,
Financial Management, presentation Skills, Report Writing, Communication
and Negotiation Skills, Planning and Organising, Analytical skills and
Leadership Skills.
DUTIES : To manage and monitor the provision of security management and work
environment services. Manage the provision of security management [MM1.1]
services. Manage the development and maintenance of security awareness
programmes, manage physical and information security services, conduct
investigation on security breaches, develop a master plan to manage the
security of the department. Establish standards for access control and
management. Establish and manage appropriate service provider and
contractor databases. Maintain and manage an effective relationship between
the Department, its regional offices and all law enforcement agencies related
to security operations. Manage the provision of auxiliary services, Manage the
provision of office support, Manage the provision of cleaning services, manage
the provision of printing services, develop policies and processes, Manage the
provision of telecommunication services, Management of facilities. Manage the
provision of maintenance service on infrastructure, Manage the administration
of property leases, Management of fleet services, Manage the administration
of motor transport subsidy, Manage departmental fleet. Manage resources
(Human/ Finance/Equipment/ Assets). Ensure proper implementation of
budget by monitoring, projecting and reporting expenditure. Ensure proper
spending in line with strategic objectives. Monitor the optimal utilization and
functionality of equipment. Evaluate and monitor performance of employees to
ensure achievement of strategic goals. Manage the human resource
development of employees in the directorate, Enhance and maintain employee
motivation, align the strategic priorities and the work plans of the Directorate
161
with the Chief Directorate. Develop operational plans for the Directorate and
work plans for each staff member in the Directorate and Provide written
contributions to departmental quarterly progress reports, Annual Report,
SCOPA, Budget speeches, Annual Performance Plan, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Gugu Nevondo at 072 904 1694
POST 13/255 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN CAPACITY MANAGEMENT REFNO: REFS/048325
Directorate: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate plus (NQF level 7) qualification in Human Resource
Management qualification as recognised by SAQA. 5 years of experience at a
middle/senior managerial level in Human Resources Management
environment. Valid Driver’s license. Nyukela SMS pre-entry certificate
submitted prior to appointment. Competencies: GPG and DID policies and
procedures, relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations, understanding
of expectations of customers, Knowledge of Contracts, Management
information knowledge, Project management methodologies, Policy
development and Change management. Financial Management, Project
Management, Presentation Skills, Report Writing, Communication Skills,
Planning and Organising, Analytical skills and Leadership Skills.
DUTIES : To manage the provision of human resources management and development
services. To Manage the provision of human administration services, human
resource planning and employment equity and the provision of human
resources information and payroll services, Manage and monitor the
development and implementation of the HR strategy and plan. Manage the
development and maintenance of database and systems regarding HR
information, to manage the staff establishment, the development and
implementation of employment equity plans, coordination of diversity
management, facilitation and provision of employee relations services,
coordination of the collective bargaining processes in the department, manage
the facilitation and resolution of grievances and disputes, manage relationships
with recognized trade unions ensuring cordial and constructive interaction and
acting as management representative in cases where disputes arise. To
Manage effective provision of Organisation design, change management and
service delivery improvement services in the Department, Manage and
facilitate the provision of job evaluation process, implementation of coordinated
and OSD posts, development and maintenance of job descriptions in the
Department, Manage and facilitate the development and review of the service
delivery model and business process mapping, organizational review and
redesign process, change management and culture survey within the
Department, manage the provision of human resource development, skills
development , talent management and development of work skills plan.
Manage resources (Human/ Finance/ Equipment/ Assets). Ensure proper
implementation of budget by monitoring, projecting and reporting expenditure,
spending in line with strategic objectives, Evaluate and monitor performance
of employees to ensure achievement strategic goal. Manage the human
resource development of employees in the directorate, Enhance and maintain
employee motivation, align the strategic priorities and the work plans of the
Directorate with the Chief Directorate. Develop operational plans for the
Directorate and work plans for each staff member in the Directorate and
Provide written contributions to departmental quarterly progress reports,
Annual Report, SCOPA, Budget speeches, Annual Performance Plan, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Gugu Nevondo at 072 904 1694
POST 13/256 : DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: REFS/048326
Directorate: Communications
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate plus (NQF level 7) qualification in Communications/ Public
Relations/ Media Liaison/ Journalism as recognised by SAQA. 5 years of
experience at a middle/senior managerial level in communications
environment. Valid Driver’s License. Nyukela SMS pre-entry certificate
submitted prior to appointment. Competencies: GPG and DID policies and
procedures, relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations, understanding
162
of expectations of customers, Knowledge of Contracts and Legal Prescripts,
Management information knowledge, Project management methodologies,
Policy development, change management, Financial Management,
presentation Skills, Report Writing, Communication and Negotiation Skills,
Planning and Organising, Analytical skills and Leadership Skills.
DUTIES : To manage the provision of communications and stakeholder engagement in
the department. Manage inter-departmental and inter-governmental
collaboration. Manage the development and implementation of stakeholder
engagement strategy, policy and procedures. Manage the provision of event
management services. Manage the creation of advertising, advertorial,
awareness-raising and marketing collateral for various campaigns across
multiple channels and mediums. Manage the corporate identity, branding and
exhibition portfolio of the department. Manage the development and
implementation of the department’s editorial and publications programme.
Ensure the development and implementation of a framework for targeted and
focused internal communication. Manage staff communication of changes and
new developments. Manage the development of coherent and strategic
messages for departmental staff. Manage the development and distribution of
communication products, Oversee content for the website and intranet.
Manage the monitoring, evaluation and reporting on the impact of
communication. Ensure proper implementation of budget by monitoring,
projecting and reporting expenditure. Ensure proper spending in line with
strategic objectives. Monitor the optimal utilization and functionality of
equipment. Evaluate and monitor performance of employees to ensure
achievement strategic goal. Manage the human resource development of
employees in the directorate. Enhance and maintain employee motivation.
Align the strategic priorities and the work plans of the Directorate with the Chief
Directorate. Develop operational plans for the Directorate and work plans for
each staff member in the Directorate. Provide written contributions to
departmental quarterly progress reports, Annual Report, SCOPA, Budget
speeches, Annual Performance Plan, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Gugu Nevondo at 072 904 1694
POST 13/257 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT & ADMINISTRATION REF NO
REFS/048327
Directorate: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate plus (NQF level 7) qualification in Accounting/Finance as
recognised by SAQA. 5 years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level
in finance environment. Code 08 license. No criminal record. Nyukela SMS
pre-entry certificate submitted prior to appointment. Competencies: GPG and
DID policies and procedures, relevant legislation and Public Service
Regulations, understanding of expectations of customers, SAPS Act,
Regulations and Amendments, PFMA, Treasury Regulation, GRAP, GAAP,
PSA, PSR, etc. Employment Equity Act,1998, Financial Systems, Knowledge
of Contracts and Legal Prescripts, Management information knowledge,
Project management methodologies, Policy development, change
management, Financial Management, MTEF Budgeting and Financial
Reporting, presentation Skills, Report Writing, Communication and Negotiation
Skills, Planning and Organising, Analytical skills and Leadership Skills.
DUTIES : To manage and facilitate the provision of financial management and
administration services. Manage and ensure the correct department's
expenditure & revenue transactions and provide accounts payable
management functions, manage compilation of journals to correct allocation of
expenditure transactions. Ensure all suppliers are accounted for. Manage the
validation of creditor’s balances accurately. Manage the Implementation of
financial accounting system. Manage effective administration of the financial
systems (SAP/ BAS/ PERSAL/ etc.). Manage effective monitoring of general
ledger accounts. Manage accurate allocation of receipt and payments. Manage
accurate financial & management accounting records according to GAAP and
GRAP. Manage and provide financial information regarding the allocation of
funding of ad hoc related projects/ programmes. Manage revenue income/
collection processes, Manage and ensure maintenance of an accurate and
effective cashier systems. Research and keep abreast of breast practice
initiatives and developments within the directorate. Develop business/ strategic
163
plan for the directorate and align it with Chief Directorate and ensure
implementation thereof. Oversee the development and implementation of
operational plans for the directorate. manage the development and
coordination of service delivery improvement plan. Manages and calculates
risks; Oversee and ensure provision of coaching, disciplining and mentoring of
staff to improve performance. Manage the performance of staff and ensure
assessment of their performance. Consolidate and manage of budget in the
directorate. Authorise, control and monitor the budget and expenditure.
Manage the compilation of various reports and statistics for the section.
Manage leave in the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Gugu Nevondo at 072 904 1694
164
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Direct or hand deliver applications for all advertised posts to the address as
indicated below: -Head Office: Department of Social Development, Private Bag
X9144, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or hand deliver to 174 Mayors Walk Road,
Pietermaritzburg 3200 OR apply online using
https://www.eservices.gov.za(Sthesha Waya Waya).
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs PN Mkhize
CLOSING DATE : 08 May 2026
NOTE : The content of this circular must without delay be brought to the attention of all
potential applicants. Applications must be forwarded to the relevant address.
Applications must indicate the reference number of the post applied for and the
Centre using a new Z83 form (which must be completed in a manner that allows
a selection committee to assess the quality of the candidate based on the
information provided in the form. It is therefore prudent that fields be completed
by applicants and the form must be signed noting the importance of the
declaration) which is effective from 01 January 2021 obtainable from any Public
Service Department and should be accompanied by a detailed/comprehensive
Curriculum Vitae. NB: Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit the
fully completed Z83 and a detailed curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the date
of the interview following communication from Human Resources. The
Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action employer and is
committed to empowering people with disabilities. Appointment is subject to a
positive outcome obtained on the following checks (Security Clearance,
Citizenship, qualification verification, criminal records, credit records and
previous employment). The employment is subject to signing the employment
contract, annual performance agreement and to disclose financial interests in
accordance with relevant prescripts. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Failure to comply with any of the above instructions will result in immediate
disqualification. If the applicant has not been contacted within three (3) months
after the closing date must accept that his / her application was not successful.
Regrettably due to excessive budget cuts the Department is not in a position
to meet any travel and subsistence costs relating to the recruitment process
for the shortlisted candidates. It is regretted that due to large volumes of
applications anticipated to be received, it is not possible for the Department to
acknowledge receipt of the same and that only those applicants that participate
in the final selection processes (interviews) will be notified of the outcome.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/258 : DIRECTOR: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT REF NO: DSD01/02/2026HO
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Public Administration/
Public Management/ Social Sciences. A post graduate qualification (NQF Level
8) will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 5 years
of experience at middle/senior managerial level. Experience in at least two of
the following areas: Executive Support/Office of the senior leadership or similar
environment; Programme or service delivery environment (social services
preferred); Governance and committee management; Stakeholder
engagement and partnerships; Strategic planning and reporting. Knowledge:
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Labour Relations Act,
Employee Performance Management and Development System, Service
Delivery Framework, Intergovernmental matters. Skills: Core Competencies:
Strategic capability and leadership, People management and empowerment,
financial management (PFMA understanding essential), Programme and
project management, Knowledge management, Service delivery innovation,
165
Problem solving and analysis. Functional competencies: Executive
coordination and advisory support; Stakeholder and partnership management;
Policy interpretation and implementation; Monitoring and reporting.
Behavioural competencies: High-level communication skills (written and
verbal; Political and organizational astuteness; Problem solving and decision
making; Ability to work under pressure. Values And Attributes: Strategic
awareness; Confidentiality; Integrity; Value diversity; Honesty; Reliable;
Working under pressure. Communication: Co workers; Supervisor;
Management; Senior Management; MEC; Other departments; NGOs, CBOs,
FBOs; Local government; General public; International organisations.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and executive coordination. Provide Governance,
Secretariat and Committee. Manage office operations and executive support.
Manage stakeholder and strategic partnerships. Coordinate special projects
and outreach. Manage the resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr OE Kabasia Tel No: (033) 264 2096
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/259 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT REF NO: DSD02/02/2026HO
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: A Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in Public Administration /
Public Management / Business Administration / Office Management /
Administrative Management. A post graduate qualification (NQF Level 8) in
Public Administration / Management / Governance / Policy / Business
Administration will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license. A minimum
of 5 years as Assistant Director or junior management level experience. Proven
experience in at least three of the following areas: Executive support to senior
management (HOD/DDG level preferred); Office administration and operations
management; Secretariat and Committee coordination; Correspondence and
document management; Stakeholder coordination and liaison; Reporting
coordination(monthly, quarterly, ad hoc; Project or Programme coordination
Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa; Public service
legislative and regulatory framework; Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Pubic Finance Management Act, Government governance and
committee systems; Office management and administrative best practices;
Records and document management systems; Basic understanding of
departmental service delivery programmes(social services context
advantages). Skills: Administrative & Operational: Advanced office and
workflow management; Document and records management; Executive
coordination and scheduling systems; Meeting and secretariat management;
Report coordination and consolidation. Management and Coordination: Team
supervision and task allocation; Project and task coordination; Time
management and prioritization; Resource coordination (HR, budget, assets at
basic level). Communication: High-level written communication (reports,
submissions, minutes); Verbal communication and stakeholder liaison; Ability
to engage across senior management and external stakeholders. Analytical
and problem solving: Ability to track, analyse, and follow up on action items;
Identify bottlenecks in administrative systems; Provide practical solutions and
improve efficiency. Core competencies: Functional; Behavioural; Leadership.
DUTIES : Operational Management of the HoD’s Office. Secretariat and Governance
Coordination. Stakeholder Coordination and Outreach. Coordination of
Reporting and Special Projects. Manage resources of the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr OE Kabasia Tel No: (033) 264 2096
POST 13/260 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STAKEHOLDER LIAISON & OUTREACH REF
NO: DSD03/02/2026HO
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) in Social
Sciences/Development Studies/Public Administration. A valid driver’s license.
A minimum of 3 years administrative experience in stakeholder management.
Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations, Employee Performance Management and Development
166
Systems, Skills: Communication( Co-workers, supervisor, Management,
Senior Management, MEC, Other departments, NGOs, CBOs, FBOs, Local
Government, General public, Computer literacy, Listening, Problem solving,
Analytical thinking, Interpersonal relations, Presentation, Conflict management
Organizing, Financial management, Driving. Values/Attributes: Confidentiality;
Integrity; Value diversity; Honesty; Reliable; Working under pressure.
DUTIES : Coordinate stakeholder engagement strategies. Manage outreach
programmes and community engagements. Facilitate partnerships with NPOs
and stakeholders. Support communication and liaison initiatives. Coordinate
inputs for stakeholder- related reporting. Manage resources of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr OE Kabasia Tel No: (033) 264 2096
POST 13/261 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECRETARIAT AND OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE
SUPPORT REF NO: DSD04/02/2026HO
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) in Social Sciences /
Development Studies / Public Administration. A valid driver’s license. A
minimum of 3 years administrative experience in office management /
administration. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, Employee Performance Management and Development
Systems. Skills: Communication (Co-workers, supervisor, Management,
Senior Management, MEC, Other departments, NGOs, CBOs, FBOs, Local
Government, General public, Computer literacy, Listening, Problem solving,
Analytical thinking, Interpersonal relations, Presentation, Conflict management
Organizing, Financial management, Driving. Values/Attributes: Confidentiality;
Integrity; Value diversity; Honesty; Reliable; Working under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide full secretariat support. Coordinate committee logistics and
documentation. Manage office administration systems and records. Coordinate
meeting logistics and documentation flow. Manage resources of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr OE Kabasia Tel No: (033) 264 2096
POST 13/262 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: HEAD OF DEPARTMENT (HOD) REF NO:
DSD05/02/2026HO
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Diploma (NQF level 6) in Office Management /
Management Assistant / Public Administration / Public Management / Business
Management. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in rendering a support service
to senior management. Knowledge: Knowledge of the relevant legislation /
policies / prescripts and procedures, Basic knowledge of financial
administration. Skills: Language, telephone etiquette, Computer literacy,
organizational, Communication, Numeracy.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial/ receptionist support service to the HoD; Provide
administrative support services to the HoD; Provide support to the HoD
regarding meetings. Support the HoD with the administration of HoD’s budget,
Study relevant Public Service and departmental prescripts/policies and other
documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr OE Kabasia Tel No: (033) 264 2096
POST 13/263 : REGISTRY CLERK: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT REF NO: DSD06/02/2026HO
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Matric/Grade 12. Knowledge: Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment, Service Delivery Framework,
Archives Act, Access to information, Records Management prescripts. Skills:
Computer literacy, Writing, Numeracy, Language, Presentation skills,
Communication skills, Interpersonal relation skills, organizing skills.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Provide an effective filing and record management service.
Operate office machines in relation to the registry function. Process documents
for archiving and /disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Mr OE Kabasia Tel No: (033) 264 2096
167
POST 13/264 : DRIVER/MESSENGER: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT REF NO:
DSD07/02/2026HO
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Grade 10, A valid Driver’s license,7-12 months experience in
driving. Knowledge: Knowledge of the procedure to operate the motor vehicle
e.g. procedures to obtain trip authorities, complete the logbooks of the motor
vehicle, to obtain consumables (e.g. petrol) and obtain basic services ( e.g.
fixing flat tyre); Knowledge of the prescripts for the correct utilization of the
motor vehicle e.g. how and for what purpose can the motor vehicle be utilized,
what is the requirements for the storage of the vehicle; knowledge of the
procedures to ensure that the motor vehicle is maintain properly; Knowledge
of the procedures to perform messenger functions and routine office support
functions like registry functions and the making of photocopies; knowledge of
the Cities in which the functions will be performed. Skills: Language; Writing;
Computer Literacy; Driving; Communications; Interpersonal; Planning;
Organizing.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium vehicles to transport passengers and deliver other
items (mail and documents). Do routine maintenance on the allocated vehicle
and report defects timely. Complete all the required and prescribed records and
logs books with regard to the vehicle and goods handled. Render a clerical
support/ messenger service in the office.
ENQUIRES : Mr OE Kabasia Tel No: (033) 264 2096
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
The Provincial Administration of KwaZulu-Natal is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer
APPLICATIONS : Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACs) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying for jobs on the
KZN online e-Recruitment system or receiving your hardcopy application. You
can find the list of Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Please note that applicants should only use
one of the following methods when applying for a post: either through the online
e-Recruitment system or submit a hardcopy application as directed.
CLOSING DATE : 06 May 2026 (at 16h00). Applications received after the closing date and time
will not be considered.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the NEW Application for Employment Form,
Z83 (obtainable on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies). The Z83 form
must be completed in terms of DPSA circular 03 of 2025. The completed and
signed Z83 must be accompanied by a detailed CV. Dates of starting and
leaving employment must be given as DD/MM/YYYY. Kindly take note that only
shortlisted candidates will be required to provide certified copies of required
documents (Where a Senior Certificate is a requirement for the post, kindly
note that a statement of results will not be accepted. Where a tertiary
qualification is required, kindly note that certificates are required, however, if a
certificate is only to be issued at a graduation in the future, the statement of
results, together with a letter from the educational institution, indicating the date
of the graduation, will be accepted) on or before the date of the interviews
following communication from Human Resources. Failure to comply with these
instructions will lead to applications being disqualified. Should an applicant
wish to apply for more than one post, separate applications must be submitted
for each post applied for. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
holders must provide a copy of their Permanent Residence Permits if
shortlisted for an interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA)
and to provide proof of such if shortlisted for an interview. Under no
circumstances will faxed applications be accepted. Receipt of applications will
not be acknowledged due to the volume of applications, and should you not
receive an invitation to attend an interview within three (3) months of the closing
date applicants should assume that their application was unsuccessful. Please
note that where experience is a requirement for the post, the successful
candidate will be required to submit documentary proof of such work
experience prior to assuming duty. A personnel suitability check (criminal
record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and
employment verification) will be conducted prior to employment. Prior to
168
appointment being made to an SMS post, the appointee must have completed
the pre-entry certificate and must be in possession of such prior to taking up
the post. The Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public
service specific training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to
join the SMS, is to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on
processes and procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-
Entry Programme is 120 notional hours. Full details may be sourced by the
following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to
a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection
interviews on a date, time and place as determined by the Department. The
Department of Transport reserves the right not to fill the advertised post(s) at
any stage of the recruitment process. Persons with Disabilities (PWDs) and
other designated groups are encouraged to apply. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the posts of Engineering Technician Production
Grade A-C:KZ273/274 & 275 (X1 Post) with Ref No: DOT 423/2025 and Survey
Technician Production Grade A-C (X8 Posts) with Ref No: DOT 438/2025
advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 43 dated 21 November 2025
have been withdrawn.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/265 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE & DISTRICT
SERVICES REF NO: DOT 21/2026
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (all Inclusive, flexible remuneration package)
CENTRE : Empangeni Region
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Civil Engineering (NQF Level 7) as
recognised by SAQA; plus A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a senior
managerial level in a road infrastructure development, construction and
maintenance of the road network environment; plus, Possession of a valid
driver’s licence (minimum Code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies
Required: Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies and
procedures. Knowledge of Treasury Regulations and Practice Notes.
Knowledge of technical policies on construction, contract management and
engineering services. Knowledge of BEE and BBBEE policies and
implementation. Knowledge of Departmental Strategic plan and goals.
Understanding of Public Service and Departmental policies, research,
analysis, objectives, developmental processes. Knowledge of Project
management and Financial management. Understanding of Departmental
strategies and related business plans. Expert knowledge of administrative
policies, practices, budgeting and managerial functions. Knowledge of Public
Service reporting procedures and work environment. Knowledge of
construction and engineering environment, including traffic engineering.
Knowledge of the provincial road infrastructure and applicable standards.
Knowledge of surveying, structural design: road and rail. Knowledge of staff
development processes. Expert design, construction and maintenance of
roads knowledge. Knowledge of design codes and technical specifications.
Computer literacy. Project and Financial management skills. Strategic
planning, presentation and facilitation skills. Report writing skills. Excellent
communication skills (verbal and written). Problem solving and conflict
management skills. Leadership / Managerial skills. Research, policy
formulation skills. Influencing and motivational skills. Diplomatic skills (visiting
foreign countries – use of best practices). Ability to interpret legislation and
Departmental policies. Research, policy formulation and management thereof.
Planning, organizing and time management skills. The ideal candidate should
169
be proactive, innovative, honest, have integrity, be reliable, committed,
professional and punctual.
DUTIES : Manage the development and maintenance of transportation infrastructure.
Manage the efficient and effective implementation of mechanical services in
the region. Manage the provision of technical services in the region. Manage
regional construction management and maintenance of blacktop, gravel roads
and structures. Manage the efficient and effective implementation of transport
operations. Monitor departmental compliance in terms of the in coordination of
EPWP/Labour Intensive projects. Ensure provision of corporate services and
financial management services in the region. Ensure the development,
implementation and constant strategic reviews of sound policies and strategies
in order to achieve optimal performance of the region. Manage the resources
of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SS Nkosi Tel No: (033) 355 8897
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Ms K Hlongwa
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 13/266 : DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOT 22/2026
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all Inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree in Finance / SCM / Accounting / Commerce majoring in Law (NQF
Level 7) as recognised by SAQA; plus A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a
middle/senior managerial level within a SCM environment; plus A valid driver’s
licence (minimum Code B). Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies
Required: Knowledge of procurement and SCM legislation and policies.
Knowledge of the CIDB legislation and practice notes. Knowledge of the
financial management information systems in the province. Knowledge of
computer-based programmes related to finance and procurement. Knowledge
of Supply Chain Management practices and procedures. Knowledge of
Treasury Regulations and the Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of
Public Service Regulations and Public Service Act. Knowledge of Project
Management Principles. Knowledge of National and Provincial Practice Notes.
Knowledge of Management of Information Systems. Knowledge of
Intergovernmental matters. Knowledge of National Development Plan and
Skills Development Act. Knowledge of Service Delivery Frameworks,
Provincial Growth and Development Plan and Labour Relations Act.
Knowledge of Employee Performance and Management System. Knowledge
of Basic Conditions of Employment Act and Occupational Health and Safety
Act. Knowledge of Legislative Mandates. Financial and Project Management
skills. Report writing and organisational skills. Strategic planning, facilitation
and decision-making skills. Computer skills. Analytical, time management and
problem-solving skills. Leadership and communication skills. The ideal
candidate should have the ability to work under pressure, be proactive,
innovative, honest and have integrity. He/she should also be reliable, show
commitment, professionalism and be punctual.
DUTIES : Manage SCM demand management services specialist support. Manage
acquisition management services. Manage logistics and contract
administration services. Manage risk and SCM performance management.
Manage the development and implementation of policies. Manage the effective
utilization of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Nkosi Tel No: (033) 355 8008
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Ms K Hlongwa
170
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/267 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: DOT 23/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, (salary depending on experience), (OSD), (inclusive
flexible remuneration package)
CENTRE : Regional Office, Ladysmith
REQUIREMENTS : An engineering degree (BEng / BSc (Eng) - Civil; plus 3 (Three) years post
qualification engineering experience; plus Compulsory Registration with
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer; plus,
A valid driver’s licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies Required: Programme and Project management knowledge.
Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Contract management.
Expropriation, access control, and roadside development services.
Stakeholder engagement. Maintenance management systems and project
implementation. Knowledge of research and development. Knowledge of
computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Knowledge of technical report writing and networking. Knowledge of creating
high performance culture. Knowledge of engineering and professional
judgement. Decision-making, team leadership and analytical skills. Creativity,
self-management and financial management skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness skills. Communication, planning and organizing skills.
Computer Literacy. Conflict and people management skills. Problem solving
and analysis skills. Change management and innovation skills. The ideal
candidate should be honest, decisive, analytical and reliable.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical engineering challenges, improve
efficiency and enhance safety. Manage regional capital projects. Human capital
development. Office administration and budget planning. Research and
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NS Phenyane Tel No: (036) 368 4400
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Ms K Hlongwa
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 13/268 : CHIEF PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR REF NO: DOT 24/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Road Traffic Inspectorate, Umzimkhulu
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4; plus A
relevant tertiary qualification (3 year Diploma/Degree in a Traffic / Management
/ Law field – NQF 6); plus a Basic Traffic Officer’s Diploma; plus Registered as
a Traffic Officer; plus 3-5 years’ supervisory experience in a Traffic Law
Enforcement field; plus 7-10 years’ working experience in Traffic Law
Enforcement field; plus All valid relevant driving licences (A and EC); plus No
criminal record. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Extensive
knowledge of Traffic Management policies and regulations. Knowledge of
relevant legislations and traffic management regulations. Knowledge of vehicle
inspections / impoundment. Knowledge of driving skills. Records and resource
management skills. Customer relationship management skills. Planning,
organizing, leadership, controlling and monitoring skills. People Management
skills. Service delivery, communication and decision-making skills. Results and
quality management skills. Problem solving skills. Innovation/continuous
improvement skills. Analytical skills. Computer literacy. Negotiation and
initiative skills. Project management, mentoring and coaching skills.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation of operational law enforcement plan: Complete
and update environmental analysis to ensure that it is used as a base line for
planning. Develop operational plan for station / centre based on provincial
annual performance plan and ensure successful implementation. Plan and
171
monitor the execution of projects relating to the implementation of the
strategy/plan. Monthly monitoring of the annual performance plan targets.
Communicate regularly with station / centre management and facilitate the
development of and participation in a centre strategic / operational plan.
Participate in integrated partnerships with local authorities. Ensure effective
and efficient leadership: Co-ordinate stakeholder relations with other state
departments and Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs). Management of service
delivery improvement: Manage administration systems. Implement
administrative processes to ensure registers are inspected weekly. Ensure that
statistics kept are correct, current and forwarded by due dates and monitored
and made available at centres. Manage and ensure effective external
community communication and liaise with local Community Police Forums.
Ensure that Testing Centre Stations (TCS) are operating optimally. Ensure that
prescribed Acts, Policies and Procedures of the Department are implemented
and adhered to. Ensure that all the relevant records and registers thereof are
filed properly and kept up to date at all times. Management of Human
Resources: Manage grievances according to prescribed procedures. Facilitate
at least one team building activity per quarter for the centre. Ensure that leave
is utilized and managed according to the relevant policies and instructions.
Develop and implement in-service training program and monitor formal training
needs of the unit. Manage performance of staff. Financial Management:
Monitor monthly expenditure and inspection reports from the Province and
implement corrective action in problem areas. Regular budget control and
management discussions as part of management meetings. Document
overtime planning based on priorities. Participate in budget planning as
required by the Province. Respond to requests from head office regarding
outstanding financial queries within provided time limit. Ensure effective and
efficient Asset Management: Monitor vehicle costs for station / centre vehicles
(as per worksheet) and identify and monitor members involved in accidents
and ensure that motor vehicle fleet is managed properly and that vehicles are
in good running order. Ensure effective loss control measures are in place to
address loss of firearms and other related equipment i.e. the relevant
equipment that gets lost and put measures in place to deal with it. Manage
assets as per inventories of station / centre.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VK Chetty Tel No: (033) 355 8880
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position. Kindly note that the 24/7 shift system will be applicable.
POST 13/269 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOT 25/2026
Supply Chain Management Directorate
Kindly note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who applied previously
and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Supply Chain Management, Public
Administration / Management and Logistics field (NQF Level 7); plus A
minimum of 3 years’ supervisory experience in a Supply Chain Management
environment in the public service; plus A valid driver’s licence (minimum code
B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of Provincial
and National Treasury Notes and Regulations. Knowledge of SCM Practice
Notes and Procedures. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act and
Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of Project Management Principles and
National and Provincial Practice Notes. Knowledge of the Labour Relations
Act. Knowledge of the Employee Performance and Management Development
System. Knowledge of Basic Conditions of Employment Act and Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Knowledge of Legislative Mandates. Knowledge of
Management of Information Systems. Knowledge of National Development
Plan and Skills Development Act. Knowledge of Provincial Growth and
Development Plan and Public Service Act. Financial Management, Project
172
Management and Project Planning skills. Report Writing, Presentation and
Facilitation skills. Decision Making and Analytical skills. Computer skills (MS
Word, MS Excel, MS Powerpoint, MS Access, MS Outlook). Time
Management, Problem Solving and Leadership skills. Communication skills
(Verbal and Written). Sound Facilitation and Training skills. Presentation skills.
Ability to work under pressure and be willing to travel outside of working hours.
Ability to operate manual transmission vehicle. The ideal candidate should be
proactive, innovative, honest and have integrity. He/she should also be reliable,
have commitment, be professional and punctual.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate (synergise), review, research, analyse and plan the procurement
needs of the department. Co-ordinate, review, collect and collate information
for the annual procurement plan. Supervise and compile tender/quotation
specifications as required. Develop, implement and maintain the supplier
database. Supervise employees to ensure an effective demand management
service and undertake all administrative functions required with regard to
financial and HR administration.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Stemela Tel No: (033) 355 8854
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 13/270 : PRINCIPAL PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Traffic Training College, Pietermaritzburg (X2 Posts):
Examiner of Vehicle Courses Ref No: DOT 26/2026 (X1 Post)
Examiner for Drivers Licence Course Ref No: DOT 27/2026 (X1 Post)
Durban Region (X1 Post):
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Umdloti Ref No: DOT 28/2026 (X1 Post)
Pietermaritzburg Region (X2 Posts):
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Pietermaritzburg Ref No: DOT 29/2026 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate; plus Traffic Officer’s Diploma; plus Registered as a Traffic
Officer; plus A minimum of 6 - 10 years Traffic Law Enforcement experience;
plus All valid relevant driving licences (A and EC); plus Applicants must
possess no criminal record. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required:
Extensive experience in road traffic and Public Transport policies and
regulations. Law enforcement knowledge on traffic and Public Transport,
vehicle inspections, vehicle impoundment and completion of law Enforcement
Documents. Records, resource and customer relationship management skills.
Planning and organizing skills. Leading, controlling and monitoring skills.
People management skills. Service delivery, communication and decision
making skills. Results and quality management skills. Problem solving, writing
& reporting and Labour Relations skills. Driving, investigation and motivational
skills. Innovation/continuous improvement skills. Analytical skills. Computer
literacy. Operations/projects management skills.
DUTIES : Manage and enforce Road Traffic, Public Passenger, Transport Legislation and
other relevant legislations. Manage joint law enforcement activities and
projects (co-operative governance). Manage resources and provide leadership
and direction to all subordinates. Identify and manage risks. Manage the
performance of all administrative activities and related duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VK Chetty Tel No: (033) 355 8880
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions. Kindly note that the 24/7 shift system will be applicable.
173
POST 13/271 : SENIOR PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg Region (X3 Posts):
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Pietermaritzburg Ref No: DOT 30/2026 (X2 Posts)
Road Traffic Inspectorate, Umzimkhulu Ref No: DOT 31/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate; plus Basic Traffic Officer’s Diploma; plus Registered as a
Traffic Officer; plus A minimum of 3 - 5 years practical experience as a
Provincial Inspector; plus A valid driving licence (minimum code B); plus
Applicants must possess no criminal record. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies Required: Knowledge and understanding of road traffic and
Public Transport legislation, policies and regulations. Knowledge of vehicle
inspections, vehicle impoundment and completion of Law Enforcement
documents. Knowledge of Firearm and Ammunition Act 60/2000, code of
conduct, dangerous goods and Departmental policies. Knowledge of
guidelines from Director of Public Prosecutions, departmental guidelines on
overload control and escort duties Transport Handbook (TRH) 11. Knowledge
of operational guidelines on law enforcement equipment. Records, resource
and customer relationship management skills. Literacy skills (written and verbal
communication skills in at least two of the provincial languages). Conflict
resolution and driving skills. Negotiation, interpretation and legal evidential
skills. Observation skills (moving violations/defects). Ability to work under
pressure. Mentoring and coaching skills.
DUTIES : Management and supervision of subordinates (people management). Enforce
Road Traffic, Public Passenger, Transport and other relevant legislation.
Examine Driver’s Licences and Motor Vehicles and monitor compliance at
Driver Licence Testing Centres (DLTC) and Vehicle Testing Stations (VTS).
Provide visible Traffic Control/Policing and promote/ensure crime prevention
activities. Perform all administrative activities and related duties. Assess road
conditions. Mentor and coach Provincial Inspectors (PIs) on probation and
appointed PIs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VK Chetty Tel No: (033) 355 8880
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions. Kindly note that the 24/7 shift system will be applicable.
POST 13/272 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C REF NO: DOT
32/2026 (X1 POST)
Technical Interventions: Empowerment Programmes Directorate
Kindly note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who applied previously
and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : Grade A: R371 253 per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R419 325 per annum, (OSD)
Grade C: R472 812 per annum, (OSD)
(Salary will be determined according to post registration experience as per
OSD prescripts)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzina Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised Bachelor’s Degree / National Diploma in Civil
Engineering; plus A minimum of 3 (three) years post qualification technical
experience in a roads environment (Experience: Grade A: 0 to12 years post
registration and Grade B: 14 years to 24 years post registration and Grade C:
26 years and over); plus Compulsory registration with Engineering Council of
South Africa as a “Professional Engineering Technician”; plus A valid driver’s
licence (minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of Project Management. Knowledge of Technical design and
analysis. Knowledge of Research and Development. Knowledge of computer-
aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Knowledge of
Technical report writing. Knowledge of Technical consulting. Problem solving
and analysis skills. Decision making skills. Team work skills. Creativity skills.
Customer focus and responsiveness skills. Communication skills. Computer
174
skills. People management skills. Planning and organizing skills. Change
management skills. The ideal candidate should be innovative, receptive to
suggestions and ideas, accurate, honest, have integrity and be open and
transparent. She/He must also be reliable, co-operative, courteous,
professional, have a positive attitude and be able to work in a team.
DUTIES : Render technical services. Perform administrative and related functions.
Research and Development. Supervise and control technical and related
personnel and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Mngoma Tel No: (033) 355 1122
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 13/273 : ROAD WORK SUPERINTENDENT REF NO: DOT 33/2026 (X1 POST)
KZ226/227 Project Implementation (In-House), Mpumalanga
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg Region
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4; plus An
undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6 or higher) in Civil Engineering or
Construction Management; plus A minimum of six (6) years’ experience in a
road maintenance / construction environment; plus A valid driver’s licence
(minimum code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Job
Knowledge. Communication skills. Interpersonal relation skills. Flexibility skills.
Team-work skills. Accuracy. Aptitude of figures. Computer Literacy. Planning
and organisation skills. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Monitor the maintenance and repair of road surfaces on all surfaced roads such
as resurfacing interval, culvert/bridge replacement, line painting, replacement
of sign, grade and resurfaced gravel on loose top roads. Develop maintenance
schedules for assets (roads, plant, equipment, etc). Plan and prepare a
weekly/monthly site programme. Manage contracted services, project
management and final inspection for capital projects. Provide technical advice
on claims against the Department. Monitor and check the quality of work done
by contractors/maintenance teams. Manage staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Hlabisa Tel No: (033) 392 6600
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
POST 13/274 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: RECORDS CONTROL REF NO: DOT
34/2026
Human Resource Administration Directorate
Kindly note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who applied previously
and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4); plus A
minimum of 3 years’ experience in a Human Resource Management
environment; plus A valid driver’s licence (minimum code B) Knowledge, Skills
and Competencies Required: Knowledge of registry and records control duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data and operate computer.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the
working environment. Understanding of the work in records control section.
175
Computer skills. Registry and Records Management skills. PERSAL System
skills. Alphabetical and Numerical filing system skills. Communication skills.
Interpersonal relations skills. The ideal candidate should have job knowledge,
be flexible and teamwork orientated.
DUTIES : Provide registry services and counter services. Administer effective filing and
record management services. Manage the operation of office machines in
relation to the Human Resource section. Procurement of stationery for Human
Resource Administration Directorate. Supervise human resources/ staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Hlongwa Tel No: (033) 355 0035
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling this
position.
POST 13/275 : ROAD WORK FOREMAN (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg Region (X3 Posts):
Cost Centre, Ixopo:
KZ5a5 Team 2 Ref No: DOT 35/2026 (X1 Post)
KZ5a1/5a2 Team 1 Ref No: DOT 36/2026 (X1 Post)
Betterment Team (Ixopo) Ref No: DOT 37/2026 (X1 Post)
Empangeni Region (X1 Post):
Cost Centre, Ulundi:
KZ266 Team 1 Ref No: DOT 38/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 3 (Grade 11) / A National Certificate in Construction; plus A
minimum of 3 years road work maintenance experience, plus A valid driver’s
licence (Minimum Code B). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of maintenance manuals, safety regulations and the costing
system. Knowledge of general procedures. Knowledge of weekly work and
plant returns. Knowledge of the service delivery programme. Knowledge of
departmental reporting structure including transportation committees.
Knowledge of legislation/policies and procedures pertaining to Public Sector.
Knowledge of disciplinary procedures. Knowledge of EPMDS. Planning and
organisational skills. Ability to learn, understand and apply. Problem solving
skills. Supervisory skills. Communication skills. Numeracy skills. Computer
literacy. The ideal candidate should be responsible, punctual, conscientious
and receptive to suggestions and ideas. He/she should be efficient have
empathy, cultural awareness and also be able to comply to code of conduct
and to work as part of a team.
DUTIES : Support road construction and/or maintenance work through, inter alia, the
following: Construction of culvert and side drains. Erect and maintain steel
guardrails and gabions. Construction of road earth and layer works. Clean and
maintain roads, sidewalks and resting areas (verge maintenance). Surfacing
and pothole patching. Road fencing and pipe laying. Setting of rod
markings/signs. Install roads signs and barricade the work area. Supervise
activities in respect of road construction and/or maintenance work through inter
alia the following: Application of safety and precautionary measures. Conduct
Inspections. Exercise control over tools, supplies and other equipment.
Allocate tasks and oversee work performance. Maintenance of equipment. Co-
ordinate the blading program. Exercise control over traffic accommodation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Hlela (Empangeni) Tel No: (035) 787 1442
Ms G Hlabisa (Pietermaritzburg) Tel No: (033) 392 6600
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
176
POST 13/276 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK (PRODUCTION) REF NO: DOT 39/2026 (X1
POST)
Kindly note that this is a re-advertisement. Applicants who applied previously
and who still wish to be considered are at liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Durban Region:
Depot Team (Mount Edgecombe)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate / National Certificate (Vocational) NQF Level 4).
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment. Computer skills. Planning and Organisational skills.
Communication skills. Good verbal and written communication skills.
Language skills. The ideal candidate should have good interpersonal relations.
He/she should be flexible and be able to work in a team.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component. Provide financial administration
support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TC Mthembu Tel No: (031) 469 8900
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
POST 13/277 : DRIVER OPERATOR (EARTHMOVING AND NON-EARTHMOVING
EQUIPMENT)
Kindly note that a number of these posts are being re-advertisement.
Applicants who applied previously and who still wish to be considered are at
liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg Region (X23 Posts):
Cost Centre: Ixopo (X15 Posts)
Grader Team 2 (Gowerford) Ref No: DOT 40/2026 (X1 Post)
Maintenance Team (Gowerford) Ref No: DOT 41/2026 (X2 Posts)
Grader Team 1 (Underberg) Ref No: DOT 42/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team 2 (Underberg) Ref No: DOT 43/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team (Ixopo) Ref No: DOT 44/2026 (X1 Post)
Betterment Team (Ixopo) Ref No: DOT 45/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team (Umzimkhulu) Ref No: DOT 46/2026 (X1 Post)
General Maintenance Team (Umzimkhuilu) Ref No: DOT 47/2026
Betterment Team (Umzimkhulu) Ref No: 48/2026 (X1 Post)
Signs Team (Umzimkhulu) Ref No: 49/2026 (X1 Post)
Blacktop Team (Cedarville) sub-section Ref No: 50/2026 (X2 Posts)
Betterment Team (Ixopo) sub-section Ref No: 51/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team (Kokstad) Sub-Section Ref No: 52/2026 (X1 Post)
Cost Centre, Pietermaritzburg (X8 Posts):
Blacktop Team (Taylors Halt) Ref No: 53/2026 (X1 Post)
Service wagon Team (Eston) Ref No: 54/2026 (X1 Post)
Drainage/betterment Team (Cedara) Sub-section Ref No: 55/2026 (X1 Post)
Betterment Team (New Hanover) Ref No: 56/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team 2 (Taylors Halt) sub-section Ref No: 57/2026 (X1 Post)
Betterment Team (Nottingham Road) Sub-section Ref No: 58/2026 (X2 Posts)
Depot Team (Taylors Halt) Ref No: DOT 59/2026 (X1 Post)
Ladysmith Region (X41 Posts):
Cost Centre, Dundee (X15 Posts)
Road Control /Project Documentation MGT (Dundee) Ref No: 60/2026 (X1
Post)
177
Grader Team (Helpmekaar) Ref No: DOT 61/2026 (X1 Post)
Maintenance Team (Mangeni) Ref No: DOT 62/2026 (X1 Post)
Blacktop Team (Greytown) Ref No: DOT 63/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team 2 (Kranskop) Ref No: DOT 64/2026 (X1 Post)
Flying Squad Team (Cwaka) Ref No: DOT 65/2026 (X1 Post)
Betterment Team (Greytown) Ref No: DOT 66/2026 (X3 Posts)
Depot Team (Greytown) Ref No: DOT 67/2026 (X1 Post)
Maintenance Team (Kranskop) Ref No: DOT 68/2026 (X1 Post)
Flying Squad Team (Greytown) Ref No: DOT 69/2026 (X1 Post)
Betterment Team (Dundee) Ref No: DOT 70/2026 (X3 Posts)
Cost Centre Newcastle (X20 Posts):
Grader Team (Normandien) Ref No: DOT 71/2026 (X1 Post)
Betterment Team (Utrecht) Ref No: DOT 72/2026 (X5 Posts)
Betterment Team (Utrecht) Sub section Ref No: DOT 73/2026 (X2 Posts)
Grader Team (Newcastle) Ref No: DOT 74/2026 (X1 Post)
Flying Squad Team (Dannhauser) Ref No: DOT 75/2026 (X7 Posts)
Flying Squad Team (Dannhauser) sub section Ref No: DOT 76/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader team (Hattingspruit) Ref No: DOT 77/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader team (Kingsley) Ref No: DOT 78/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team (Groenvlei) Ref No: DOT 79/2026 (X1 Post)
Cost Centre Estcourt (X6 Posts):
Maintenance Team (Dukuza) Ref No: DOT 80/2026 (X1 Post)
Maintenance Team (Mbambazane) Ref No: DOT 81/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team 1 (Indaka) Ref No: DOT 82/2026 (X1 Post)
Maintenance Team (Indaka) Ref No: DOT 83/2026 (X1 Post)
Blacktop Team (Emnambithi) Ref No: DOT 84/2026 (X1 Post)
Betterment Team (Emnambithi) Ref No: 85/2026 (X1 Post)
Durban Region (X19 Posts):
Cost Centre, Port Shepstone (X14 Posts)
Grader Team 3 (Harding) Ref No: DOT 86/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team (Port Shepstone North) Ref No: DOT 87/2026 (X1 Post)
Depot Team (Port Shepstone South) Ref No: DOT 88/2026 (X4 Posts)
Blacktop Team (Harding) Ref No: DOT 89/2026 (X1 Post)
Betterment Team (Port Shepstone, South) Ref No: DOT 90/2026 (X7 Posts)
Cost Centre, Metro (X5 Posts):
Concrete Team (Umbumbulu) Ref No: DOT 91/2026 (X1 Post)
Maintenance Team (Mount Edgecombe) Ref No: DOT 92/2026 (X1 Post)
Concrete Team (Metro) Ref No: DOT 93/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team (Umbumbulu) Ref No: DOT 94/2026 (X1 Post)
Maintenance Team 1 (St Helier) Ref No: DOT 95/2026 (X1 Post)
Empangeni Region (X19 Posts):
Cost Centre, Vryheid (X9 Posts)
Grader Team (Emondlo) Ref No: DOT 96/2026 (X1 Post)
Betterment Team (Vryheid) Ref No: DOT 97/2026 (X2 Posts)
Blacktop Team (Vryheid) Ref No: DOT 98/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team 1 (Vryheid) Ref No: DOT 99/2026 (X1 Post)
Maintenance Team (Paul Pietersburg) Ref No: DOT 100/2026 (X1 Post)
Betterment Team (Pongola) Ref No: DOT 101/2026 (X2 Posts)
Grader Team (Belgrade) Ref No: DOT 102/2026 (X1 Post)
Cost Centre, Ulundi (X10 Posts)
Grader Team 3 (Dennydalton) Ref No: DOT 103/2026 (X1 Post)
Betterment Team (Mahlabathini) Ref No: DOT 104/2026 (X3 Posts)
Grader Team 2 (Dennydalton) Ref No: DOT 105/2026 (X1 Post)
Signs Team (Nongoma) Ref No: DOT 106/2026 (X1 Post)
Maintenance Team (Usuthu) Ref No: DOT 107/2026 (X1 Post)
Crusher stone (Msebe) Ref No: DOT 108/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team 1 (Msebe) Ref No: DOT 109/2026 (X1 Post)
Maintenance Team (Maphophpma) Ref No: DOT 110/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 certificate (NQF level 2); plus a valid Driver’s Licence Code EC with
PrDP and Operating Certificate / Departmental Competency Pink card for
specialised equipment; plus Five (5) years’ driving and operating specialized
equipment experience. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required:
Communication skills. Ability to read and write. Good eyesight. Teamwork.
Skills in the operation of the equipment. Physical inspection of vehicles and the
ability to interpret instructions for proper use of all controls for safe operation
of vehicles. Interpret and follow operating manuals, maintenance manuals and
service charts.
178
DUTIES : Perform activities in respect of operation through inter alia the following:
Operating specialized equipment; Load and offload goods/ equipment;
Inspection and maintenance of equipment and report defects; Keep log sheets
of vehicles and machineries; Application of safety and precautionary
measures; Cleaning and lubrication of machinery equipment; Grading of gravel
roads and re-raveling/ shoulder maintenance. Render driving services, perform
activities in respect of operation through inter alia the following: Transportation
of work teams and materials / equipment; Detect and repair minor mechanical
problems on the vehicles and take steps to have it repaired (check level and
condition of oil, fuel, tyres and water); Inspection of the vehicle/ equipment and
report defects; Complete vehicle logbook, trip authorization for the vehicle.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Sithole Tel No: (033) 355 0543
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions. Candidates will be subjected to practical assessment.
POST 13/278 : ROAD WORKER (X32 POSTS)
Kindly note that the post at Sign Team (Hluhluwe) is a re-advertisement.
Applicants who applied previously and who still wish to be considered are at
liberty to re-apply.
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Empangeni Region (X32 Posts):
Cost Centre, Vryheid:
Maintenance Team (Magudu) Ref No: DOT 111 /2026 (X6 Posts)
Maintenance Team (Belgrade) Ref No: DOT 112 /2026 (X4 Posts)
Maintenance Team (Pongola) Ref No: DOT 113/2026 (X1 Post)
Maintenance Team (Paulpietersburg) Ref No: DOT 114/2026 (X6 Posts)
Maintenance Team (Gluckstadt) Ref No: DOT 115/2026 (X2 Posts)
Betterment Team (Pongola) Ref No: DOT 116/2026 (X1 Post)
Blacktop Team (Paulpietersburg) Ref No: DOT 117/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team 2 (Paulpietersburg) Ref No: DOT 118/2026 (X1 Post)
Signs Team (Vryheid) Ref No: DOT 119/2026 (X3 Posts)
Blacktop Team (Vryheid) Ref No: DOT 120/2026 (X3 Posts)
Grader Team 2 (Vryheid) Ref No: DOT 121/2026 (X1 Post)
Grader Team (Emondlo) Ref No: DOT 122/2026 (X1 Post)
Mechanical (Vryheid) Ref No: DOT 123/2026 (X1 Post)
Cost Centre, Hluhluwe:
Signs Team (Hluhluwe) Ref No: DOT 124/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 1 or 2 (Abet level 2 certificate or equivalent). Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies Required: Job knowledge. Communication skills. Interpersonal
relation skills. Flexibility. Teamwork. Accuracy. Skills in the aptitude of figures.
Computer literacy. Planning and organising skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Perform routine activities in respect of road maintenance and/or construction
through inter alia the following: Construction of culvert and side drains. Erect
and maintain steel guardrails and gabions. Construction of road earth and layer
works. Clean and maintain roads, sidewalks and resting areas. Surfacing and
porthole patching. Read fencing and pipe laying. Setting of road markings and
studs. Install road signs, distance markers, and barricade the work area.
Crushing of road material. Brush clearing and grass cutting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Hlela (Empangeni) Tel No: (035) 787 1442
Ms G Hlabisa (Pietermaritzburg) Tel No: (033) 392 6600
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
179
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
POST 13/279 : TRADESMAN AID (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, Pietermaritzburg:
Road Traffic Inspectorate:
Specialised Supp Serv Ref No: DOT 125/2026 (X1 Post)
Empangeni Region (X6 Posts):
Cost Centre Vryheid
Depot Team (Vryheid) Ref No: DOT 126/2026 (X1 Post)
Signs Team (Vryheid) Ref No: DOT 127/2026 (X1 Post)
Ground Survey (Vryheid) Ref No: DOT 128/2026 (X1 Post)
Mechanical (Pongola) Ref No: DOT 129/2026 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 / Junior Certificate; plus A minimum of 6 months trade related
experience. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Ability to use
electrical and hand tools. Good interpersonal, communication and
organizational skills. Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Provide assistance in the maintenance of facilities, grounds, vehicles and
equipment. Repair, clean, service and safe keeping of equipment and tools
according to standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NM Khenyeza (Head Office) Tel No: (033) 267 4900
Mr MI Masuku (Empangeni) Tel No: (034) 980 0401
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
POST 13/280 : CLEANER (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Empangeni Region (X4 Posts):
Cost Centre: Vryheid
Depot Team (Magudu) Ref No: DOT 130/2026) (X1 Post)
Depot Team (Pongola) Ref No: DOT 131/2026) (X1 Post)
KZ262 Administrative Support Pongola Ref No: DOT 132/2026) (X1 Post)
Depot Team (Gulckstad) Ref No: DOT 133/2026) (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : AET Level 4 / Grade 9. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of cleaning procedures. Knowledge of refreshment provision.
Knowledge of safety requirements attached to the duties of the post.
Knowledge of service delivery programs. Knowledge of operating appliances.
Ability to interpret and act on instructions. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability
to operate domestic appliances. Basic literacy and numeracy skills. The ideal
candidate should be reliable, responsible, receptive to suggestions and ideas,
polite and believe in honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Preparing, serving tea & washing up after tea breaks. Vacuum/ sweep offices,
empty and clean appliances. Clean toilets, lecture room block, windows and
glass door. Mopping floors, wipe /dust walls & surfaces, empty rubbish bins.
Polish floor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SB Mkhwanazi Tel No: (034) 980 0401
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the Office of the Department
of Transport, Inkosi Mhlabunzima Maphumulo House, 172 Burger Street,
Pietermaritzburg, or couriered via postal services to Recruitment & Selection
Section, Human Resource Administration Directorate, Private Bag X9043,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through
the KZN online e-Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr B Hornsby
NOTE : It is the intention of this Department to consider equity targets when filling these
positions.
180
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road Pietermaritzburg 3200. Applications can also be
submitted via the e-services system, please assess this site (eservices.gov.za).
FOR ATTENTION : Ms N Cele
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2026
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies.The Z83 must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only provisionally shortlisted applicants will
be contacted and requested to submit their supporting documents. The
Department will also conduct reference checks with HR of current /previous
employer(s) beside the references provided on CV. Candidates will be
subjected security screening. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Under no circumstances will be faxed, emailed and late applications be
accepted. The Department discourages applications that are registered and
will not be held responsible for applications sent via registered mail which are
not collected from the post office. It is the responsibility of the applicant to
ensure that the application reaches the Department timeously. Should you not
hear from the Department within 3 months of the closing date, please regard
your application as unsuccessful. Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts,
the department is not in a position to meet any travel and subsistence costs
relating to recruitment processes, or relocation and resettlement costs for
successful candidates.
OTHER POST
POST 13/281 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL MOVEABLE ASSET REF NO: KZNPT
26/09
SALARY : R896 437 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year NQF Level 7 Degree or higher qualification in Financial Management
/ Accounting. A minimum of 3years experience of junior management in asset
and inventory management. Valid Driver’s license. People with disabilities
without valid driver’s licenses will be assisted by the department to meet work
related travel obligations. Skills, Knowledge and Competencies: Knowledge of
applicable national and provincial policies and legislation is required, including:
Public Finance Management Act; MTEF Republic of South Africa Constitution
Planning Frameworks relevant legislation and plans. Public Service Act, 1994
National Treasury practice notes and guidelines; KwaZulu-Natal Procurement
Policy Framework; Treasury Regulations; Provincial Treasury policies, practice
notes and guidelines; Strategic Planning Annual Performance Plan Monitoring
and Evaluation. National Treasury Strategic Planning National Development
Plan. Service Delivery Framework. National and Provincial Practices Notes.
Provincial Growth and Development Plan. Advanced MS Office Applications.
Knowledge of Accounting Frameworks related to asset inventory and
management. Public Service Regulatory Framework; and SCM Practices and
Procedures Public Service Regulation 2016 Communication Computer literacy
Financial Management Strategic planning and management Financial
management Leadership Management Human resource management Project
planning and management Analytical Conflict Management Business process
management Good inter-personal relations Problem solving Change
management Presentation Interpersonal Relation policy analysis and
development, Project Management.
DUTIES : Monitor the development and the implementation of asset management
frameworks within Provincial Department and public Entities. Manage the
improvement and implementation of asset and inventory management.
Manage the provisioning of guidance and technical advice on asset and
inventory management. Manage the provisioning of knowledge management
and capacity development. Manage the resources of the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Hlengwa Tel No: (033) 897 4352
181
NOTE : Preferences: Females and people with disabilities who meet the requirements.
182
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, LAND & ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
DARDLEA is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity in DARDLEA through the filling of posts. Persons with disability are encouraged to apply.
No Payment of any kind is required when applying for these positions.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted online through the link:
erecruitment.mpg.gov.za, A recent comprehensive CV, ID and contactable
references (telephone numbers and email addresses must be indicated).
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents.
Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from
the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Emailed applications will not
be considered. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other will be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to be available for assessments and interviews at
a date and time to be determine by the Department. The first two recommended
candidates for Senior Management Service and Deputy Directors posts will be
subjected to competency assessment. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. The successful candidate will be expected to enter
into an employment contract and a performance agreement within 3 months of
appointment. Failure to comply with the above instructions will result in your
application being disqualified. Should you not be contacted within 3 months of
the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. The successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive
results of the security clearance process. The Department is committed to
providing equal opportunities and adheres to the affirmative action policy in line
with Employment Equity Act, the SMS Handbook and all relevant legislation
applicable in the Public Service.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/282 : DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: DARDLEA/ 2026/04/01
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus a B Degree / B-tech in Commence / Auditing/
Financial Management at (NQF Level 7 as recognized by SAQA) plus
extensive work experience in the related field of which 5 years of experience
at Middle/Senior Managerial level (Auditing). A valid driver’s license.
Appointment is subject to the signing of a performance agreement and financial
disclosure. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government available as an online course on https://www.
thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to finalization
of an appointment. Skills and Competencies: Internal Audit Framework, Global
IIA Standards. Good communication skills and presentation 267 skills. Must be
computer literate with excellent knowledge of MS Word, PowerPoint, Outlook
and Excel. Good writing and verbal communication skills. Knowledge of
legislative prescript governing the Public Service. Good written and verbal
communication skills, high sense of responsibility, Computer literacy, conflict
management and analytical skills. Financial management. Interpersonal
Relations Report writing.
DUTIES : Provide internal audit assurance services. Review the compliance with laws,
regulations, policies, plans, procedures and contracts. Provide performance
audit services. Review safeguarding of assets. Review the achievement of
strategic goals and objectives. Review the reliability and integrity of
information. Management of risks, budget, expenditure, human resources,
strategic planning, audit issues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S.P Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Mr. M.G Ngwane Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
183
POST 13/283 : DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING & POLICY DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
DARDLEA/ 2026/04/02
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate plus B Degree / B-tech in Public Policy, Economic/ Public
Administration and Development Studies at (NQF Level 7 as recognised by
SAQA) plus work experience in the related field of which 5 years of experience
at Middle/Senior Managerial level. A valid driver’s license. Appointment is
subject to the signing of a performance agreement and financial disclosure.
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service Senior Management
Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government
available as an online course on https://www. thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to finalisation of an appointment.
Skills and Competencies: In depth knowledge of government policies (PFMA,
MTEF etc.) and its planning processes. Sound understanding and insight into
the programmes and priorities of government. Sound understanding of
transformation in government. Distinct competence and a proven track record
in the areas of participative management and leadership, organisational
development, policy formulation, as well as programme management and
evaluation. Ability to develop logical frameworks and other planning models.
Ability to develop and adhere to work schedules. Strong leadership ability.
Ability to capitalize on human potential and to build a strong team. Good inter-
personal skills. Advanced planning, organising and project management skills.
Sound financial management skills. Proven experience in editing, managing&
implementing programmes, Policy frameworks, policy legislative instruments
and consultative processes. Stakeholder engagement, Strategic thinking and
ability to translate policy into actionable programmes and people management
capabilities. knowledge of relevant prescripts applicable to the section. Good
communication skills both verbal and written. Advanced proficiency in MS
Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Sound Presentation Skills, Problem Solving,
Planning and Organising, Strong Analytical Skills.
DUTIES : Manage the compilation and generation of relevant quality business plans.
Manage the alignment of the departmental medium strategic framework to
local, provincial and national strategies. Develop and implement the strategic
performance plans [Annual Performance Plans (APP) and Operational Plans
(OP)] for the Department. Manage the alignment of the departmental medium
strategic framework to Local, Provincial and National. Management of risks,
budget, expenditure, human resources, strategic planning, audit issues.
Ensure compliance, implementation and maintenance of national and
provincial policy frameworks in the responsible areas of activity. Ensure
mission effectiveness and operational efficiency through effective and efficient
resources management (including Human Resources, Finance, Equipment,
etc.) of the component. Pro-actively build sound relationships with key
stakeholders and clients, including organised labour. Promote a culture of
efficiency and quality. The appointee will be a member of the management
echelon of the Department of DARDLEA and will be expected to contribute at
that level.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S.P Shongwe Tel No: (013) 766 6003 or Mr. M.G Ngwane Tel No: (013)
766 6110 or Ms. NF Mgiba Tel No: (013) 766 6476
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/284 : ENGINEERING CONTROL TECHNICIAN GRADE B REF NO: DARDLEA/
2026/04/03
SALARY : R933 396 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD package)
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Civil Engineering or a relevant qualification as
recognised by SAQA. Registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa
(ECSA) as a Professional Engineering Technician is compulsory. A minimum
of six (6) years post-qualification technical experience in civil engineering.
Disclosure of a valid, unexpired driver’s licence. Experience in development of
agricultural infrastructure will be an added advantage. Sound knowledge of
infrastructure planning and design; agricultural mechanisation; relevant
legislation, including NEMA, CARA, SALA, PFMA, and National Water Act;
budgeting, procurement, occupational health and safety, and human resource
184
management principles. Competency in CAD software, GIS, surveying tools,
and MS Office applications. Core Competencies: Leadership and strategic
management, Technical problem-solving and innovation, Effective
communication and reporting, Financial and human resource management,
Stakeholder engagement and customer service.
DUTIES : Lead and manage the technical team in the district. Manage and control the
planning and design of infrastructure, irrigation, and mechanisation projects in
compliance with relevant legislation, including but not limited to agro-
ecosystem management plans, farm plans, soil conservation structures, farm
roads and dams. Render technical advisory services to stakeholders and
supervise infrastructure implementation. Evaluate and update technical
manuals, standard drawings, and procedures to incorporate new technologies.
Ensure quality assurance of designs and provide recommendations for
approval. Manage field, workshop, and office technical activities in coordination
with other technical staff in the Directorate. Provide inputs to the budgeting
process, as well as operational and performance plans. Compile and submit
technical and administrative reports. Ensure compliance with occupational
health and safety regulations and manage all OH&S matters within the section.
Manage human resources, finances, and general office operations for the
technical/construction team. Perform research and literature studies to stay
abreast of developments in engineering technology. Manage assets and
monitor service delivery through the supply chain system. Liaise with relevant
councils, stakeholders, and professional bodies on engineering matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/285 : SENIOR AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR: ANIMAL PRODUCTION REF NO:
DARDLEA/ 2026/04/04
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Dipaleseng Municipality
REQUIREMENTS A matric certificate and a relevant and recognized Agricultural qualification with
Animal Production/Science as a major at NQF level 8 as determined by South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA), four years relevant experience. A valid
driver’s license. Registration with professional body (SACNASP). Skills And
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding and Public Service Regulatory
Frameworks (Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations & Public Finance
Management). Report writing and good presentation skills. Understand and
implement Batho Pele Principles. Excellent written and verbal communication
skills. Stakeholder and client liaison, innovative and creative. Ability to work in
a team, independently and in a multidisciplinary team. Innovative and creative
ability to operate Microsoft Office programmes effectively. Ability to work under
pressure. Ability to apply time management principles and adapt to continuous
changing environment.
DUTIES : Supervise Agricultural Advisors. Render scientific and technical advice to
internal and external clients. Provide technical support in terms pf planning,
advice and after care for organized agriculture and other agricultural
stakeholders. Provide technical support on Government funded projects (such
as CASP, PLAS, MESP, PKM etc.). Promote sustainable production of
Agricultural Products. Compile and submit all required administrative reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/286 : AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR: ANIMAL PRODUCTION REF NO: DARDLEA/
2026/04/05
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Msukaligwa Municipality
REQUIREMENTS : A matric certificate and a relevant and recognized Agricultural qualification with
Animal Production/Science as a major at NQF level 8 as determined by South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA), two years relevant experience. A valid
driver’s license. Registration with professional body (SACNASP). Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Regulatory
Frameworks (Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations & Public Finance
Management). Report writing and good presentation skills. Understand and
implement Batho Pele Principles. Excellent written and verbal communication
skills. Stakeholder and client liaison, innovative and creative. Ability to work in
a team, independently and in a multidisciplinary team. Innovative and creative
ability to operate Microsoft Office programmes effectively. Ability to work under
185
pressure. Ability to apply time management principles and adapt to continuous
changing environment.
DUTIES : Render scientific and technical advice to internal and external clients. Provide
technical support in terms of planning, advice and after care for organized
agriculture and other agricultural stakeholders. Provide technical support on
Government funded projects (such as CASP, PLAS, MESP, PKM etc.).
Promote sustainable production of Agricultural Products. Compile and submit
all required administrative reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/287 : AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR: ANIMAL PRODUCTION REF NO: DARDLEA/
2026/04/06
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mkhondo Municipality
REQUIREMENTS : A matric certificate and a relevant and recognized Agricultural qualification with
Animal Production/Science as a major at NQF level 8 as determined by South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA), two years relevant experience. A valid
driver’s license. Registration with professional body (SACNASP). Skills And
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding and Public Service Regulatory
Frameworks (Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations & Public Finance
Management). Report writing and good presentation skills. Understand and
implement Batho Pele Principles. Excellent written and verbal communication
skills. Stakeholder and client liaison, innovative and creative. Ability to work in
a team, independently and in a multidisciplinary team. Innovative and creative
ability to operate Microsoft Office programmes effectively. Ability to work under
pressure. Ability to apply time management principles and adapt to continuous
changing environment.
DUTIES : Render scientific and technical advice to internal and external clients. Provide
technical support in terms of planning, advice and after care for organized
agriculture and other agricultural stakeholders. Provide technical support on
Government funded projects (such as CASP, PLAS, MESP, PKM etc.).
Promote sustainable production of Agricultural Products. Compile and submit
all required administrative reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/288 : AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR: ANIMAL PRODUCTION REF NO: DARDLEA/
2026/04/07
SALARY R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Govan Mbeki Municipality
REQUIREMENTS : A matric certificate and a relevant and recognized Agricultural qualification with
Animal Production/Science as a major at NQF level 8 as determined by South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA), two years relevant experience. A valid
driver’s license. Registration with professional body (SACNASP). Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Regulatory
Frameworks (Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations & Public Finance
Management). Report writing and good presentation skills. Understand and
implement Batho Pele Principles. Excellent written and verbal communication
skills. Stakeholder and client liaison, innovative and creative. Ability to work in
a team, independently and in a multidisciplinary team. Innovative and creative
ability to operate Microsoft Office programmes effectively. Ability to work under
pressure. Ability to apply time management principles and adapt to continuous
changing environment.
DUTIES : Render scientific and technical advice to internal and external clients. Provide
technical support in terms of planning, advice and after care for organized
agriculture and other agricultural stakeholders. Provide technical support on
Government funded projects (such as CASP, PLAS, MESP, PKM etc.).
Promote sustainable production of Agricultural Products. Compile and submit
all required administrative reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/289 : AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR: ANIMAL PRODUCTION REF NO: DARDLEA/
2026/04/08
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Dr. Pixley Ka Isaka Seme Municipality
186
REQUIREMENTS : A matric certificate and a relevant and recognized Agricultural qualification with
Animal Production/Science as a major at NQF level 8 as determined by South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA), two years relevant experience. A valid
driver’s license. Registration with professional body (SACNASP). Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Regulatory
Frameworks (Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations & Public Finance
Management). Report writing and good presentation skills. Understand and
implement Batho Pele Principles. Excellent written and verbal communication
skills. Stakeholder and client liaison, innovative and creative. Ability to work in
a team, independently and in a multidisciplinary team. Innovative and creative
ability to operate Microsoft Office programmes effectively. Ability to work under
pressure. Ability to apply time management principles and adapt to continuous
changing environment.
DUTIES : Render scientific and technical advice to internal and external clients. Provide
technical support in terms of planning, advice and after care for organized
agriculture and other agricultural stakeholders. Provide technical support on
Government funded projects (such as CASP, PLAS, MESP, PKM etc.).
Promote sustainable production of Agricultural Products. Compile and submit
all required administrative reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/290 : ANIMAL HEALTH TECHNICIAN REF NO: DARDLEA/ 2026/04/09 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mkhondo Municipality
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate degree or National Diploma in Animal Health with Animal Diseases
as a major subject and must be registered with the South African Veterinary
Council as an Animal Health Technician. Valid driver’s license, Code B (Code
8) as minimum. Skills and Competencies: Competency in animal handling,
animal tracking and field navigation. Good verbal and written communication,
ability to communicate at all levels, problem solving skills decision-making skills
and ability to work under pressure. Must be computer literate (MS Packages).
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for the following duties: Animal disease
surveillance, detection and monitoring. Animal disease containment and
control, including animal and animal products movement control (permits). Plan
and implement disease control measures. Provide assistance with applied
wildlife disease investigations and research, where applicable. Provide
assistance with primary animal health care. Manage basic administrative
duties. Compile monthly reports for area under jurisdiction.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/291 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO:
DARDLEA/ 2026/04/10
SALARY : R343 842 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Amsterdam Environmental Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF7) in environmental science fields or
equivalent qualification. A specialization in Environmental Education and/or
Social Ecology will be an added advantage as well as work experience in the
environmental empowerment field. Willingness to undertake field trips entailing
long distances and work irregular hours. A valid Driver’s license. Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge of relevant Public Service Regulatory Framework
(Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations and Public Finance
Management), National Environmental Management Act, Environmental
Education policies, guidelines, norms and standards related to Environmental
prescripts applicable to EE. Ability to work independently and in a multi-
disciplinary team. Excellent verbal and communication skills. Project
administration, innovative, creative, ability to operate Microsoft Office
programmes effectively. Ability to work under pressure with strict timelines.
DUTIES : Implement and manage Environmental Empowerment programmes, projects
and activities in line with the Annual Performance Plan (APP), management of
performance in line with the PMDS and APP. Submit, prepare and consolidate
monthly, quarterly and annual reports as required. Coordination of local,
municipal and district stakeholders and promote private public partnerships
(PPP). Perform any other related Ad Hoc tasks and duties as requested and
required by supervisor or centre manager. Ensure effective and efficient
187
internal control measures and compliances. Facilitate Environmental
Empowerment programmes and events as per APP on school, municipal and
stakeholder level.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/292 : TRACTOR DRIVER REF NO: DARDLEA/ 2026/04/11 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Athole Research Farm
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent. Valid RSA driver’s license Skills And Competencies:
Basic reading and writing skills. Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work
independently and as part of a team. advanced knowledge of the general
function of a tractor Ability to execute physical and manual tasks. Knowledge
of general cleaning services, including but not limited to gardening. Ability to
operate cleaning and gardening equipment and machinery. Basic equipment
maintenance skills.
DUTIES : The physical execution of duties as given by supervisor, such as: operation of
implements. General maintenance of tractor as well as implements. Transport
goods from one station to another through traffic. Advance knowledge of the
handling of implements like 2-way disc, planters, reapers, Rotary cutters, all
types of ploughs, rippers, feed mixer, Dam scoop, graders, etc. Must be able
to do accurate plough, disc- and plant work, etc. as work has to be done on
small research premises. Assist in making of fire breaks. Assist in firefighting
when necessary. Making of hay and silage. Responsible for planting of all
crops, fodder and other horticultural plants. Responsible for all harvesting
processes. Assist in fencing activities. Have to work weekends when
necessary. Work overtime when required. Assist in all other farm work when
necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/293 : TRACTOR DRIVER REF NO: DARDLEA/ 2026/04/12 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Nooitgedacht ADC
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent. Valid RSA driver’s license Skills And Competencies:
Basic reading and writing skills. Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work
independently and as part of a team. advanced knowledge of the general
function of a tractor Ability to execute physical and manual tasks. Knowledge
of general cleaning services, including but not limited to gardening. Ability to
operate cleaning and gardening equipment and machinery. Basic equipment
maintenance skills.
DUTIES : The physical execution of duties as given by supervisor, such as: operation of
implements. General maintenance of tractor as well as implements. Transport
goods from one station to another through traffic. Advance knowledge of the
handling of implements like 2-way disc, planters, reapers, Rotary cutters, all
types of ploughs, rippers, feed mixer, Dam scoop, graders, etc. Must be able
to do accurate plough, disc- and plant work, etc. as work has to be done on
small research premises. Assist in making of fire breaks. Assist in firefighting
when necessary. Making of hay and silage. Responsible for planting of all
crops, fodder and other horticultural plants. Responsible for all harvesting
processes. Assist in fencing activities. Have to work weekends when
necessary. Work overtime when required. Assist in all other farm work when
necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/294 : SENIOR GENERAL FOREMAN REF NO: DARDLEA/ 2026/04/13
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Amsterdam Environmental Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate or equivalent qualification. A minimum of 3 years’ appropriate
experience in ground / and or nursery management. Drivers licence Code EC
and PDP valid public drivers permit will be an added advantage. Skills And
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of environmental work field and
techniques. Knowledge of related work fields and non-line functional matter as
well as manual labour skills. Good written communication skills, ability to
communicate at all levels, problem solving skills, decision making skills and
ability to work under pressure. Must have knowledge on basic general
188
construction, supervision skills, good human relations, ability to work
independently and in a team. Must be able to work under pressure. Basic
knowledge on management of nursery.
DUTIES : Assist in administrative duties and manage basic stock control. Overall
neatness of the centre and infrastructure. Control over general assistants,
motivation and management of subordinates. Practice and promote a positive
team spirit. Promotion of appropriate training to subordinates’ in terms of policy
and technical aspects. Build own intellectual capacity and that of colleagues.
Practice good public and internal ethical standards. Effective planning,
organising and execution of work schedules, keeping of time register, have to
work overtime when necessary. Management of nursery and gardens at the
centre. Coordinate and liaise with communities. Assist in all cleaning
operations like stores, centre, machinery, clean-up campaigns, residential
centre, dormitories, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/295 : FARM AID II REF NO: DARDLEA/ 2026/04/13 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Athole Research Farm
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent Skills And Competencies: Basic reading and writing
skills. Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work independently and as part
of a team. Ability to execute physical and manual tasks. Ability to operate
cleaning and gardening equipment and machinery. Basic equipment
maintenance skills.
DUTIES : Physical, manual execution of various tasks such as: fencing, maintenance of
infrastructure, implements, gardens, preparation of lands, haymaking, etc.
Assist in loading, offloading and stacking of feeds, fertilizers and hay. Assist in
maintenance of fences. Assist in making fire breaks. Assist in firefighting when
necessary. Work overtime when required. Assist in milling and mixing licks and
feeds. Have to work weekends when required. Assist in lying on water to
drinking troughs. Assist in moving of livestock between camps.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/296 : FARM AID II REF NO: DARDLEA/ 2026/04/14 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Nooitgedacht ADC
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent Skills And Competencies: Basic reading and writing
skills. Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work independently and as part
of a team. Ability to execute physical and manual tasks. Ability to operate
cleaning and gardening equipment and machinery. Basic equipment
maintenance skills.
DUTIES : Physical, manual execution of various tasks such as: fencing, maintenance of
infrastructure, implements, gardens, preparation of lands, haymaking, etc.
Assist in loading, offloading and stacking of feeds, fertilizers and hay. Assist in
maintenance of fences. Assist in making fire breaks. Assist in firefighting when
necessary. Work overtime when required. Assist in milling and mixing licks and
feeds. Have to work weekends when required. Assist in lying on water to
drinking troughs. Assist in moving of livestock between camps.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/297 : GENERAL ASSISTANTS (FOOD SERVICE AID) REF NO: DARDLEA/
2026/04/15 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Amsterdam Environmental Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or Abet level 4 Skills And Competencies: Basic skills in using kitchen
equipment. Knowledge of hygiene and food preparation as an added
advantage. Ability to read and follow recipes and quantities. Ability to work
independently and part of a team.
DUTIES : Food preparation according to recipes. Food handling and distribution.
Cleaning all utensils, equipment and residential facilities. Follow prescribed
safety measures and standards. Washing and ironing of linen.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
189
POST 13/298 : GENERAL ASSISTANTS (GENERAL WORKERS) REF NO: DARDLEA/
2026/04/16 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Amsterdam Environmental Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or ABET level 4 Skills And Competencies: Ability to work
independently and part of a team, Knowledge of garden services. Basic skills
on the use of lawnmowers. Skills in plumbing and basic electrical works, and
mechanical skills in lawnmower repairs will serve as an added advantage.
DUTIES : Perform general worker related duties, repairs and maintenance, de-bushing
of trees, slashing of grass and cutting of edges. Keep working area clean and
tidy. General cleaning of facilities and premises. General gardening services.
Support environmental programmes and activities. Report faulty or defective
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/299 : CLEANER REF NO: DARDLEA/ 2026/04/17 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District Office (Corporate Services)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/ABET or equivalent. Ability for physical execution of manual tasks.
Experience in cleaning will be an added advantage. Skills And Competencies:
Must be physically fit to lift heavy objects. Ability to operate cleaning machinery
and equipment such as vaccum cleaners, polishers and pressure cleaners.
Basic knowledge of cleaning chemicals, cleaning equipments and ablution
hygienic principles. Good personal and organisational skills. Communication
and problem solving skills. Ability to work in a team and independently.
Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles.
DUTIES : Provision of routine cleaning services and any other cleaning services as
required in different areas within the working environment. Keep and maintain
cleaning materials and equipment. Advise supervisor of any other area needing
special attention in their working area. Perform cleaning related duties in the
centre/building and/or offices, including but not limited to sweeping, scrubbing
and cleaning of offices. Hallways, toilet and other buildings within the District
office. Emptying of dustbins. Request cleaning materials from the stores when
required. Report defects in the workplace to immediate supervisor. Perform
other duties assigned by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
POST 13/300 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: DARDLEA/ 2026/04/18
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District Office (Corporate Services)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10/ ABET or equivalent. Skills And Competencies: Good interpersonal
relations. Knowledge of working equipment and materials. Must be prepared
to work extended hours. Should be able to read and write. Ability to work
independently and part of a team.
DUTIES : Perform Groundsman related duties in the District Office, including but not
limited to rendering gardening and maintenance services. Maintenance and
cleaning of premises and surroundings. Planting of seedlings, mowing of lawn
and cutting of edges. Keep parking areas, ditches and gutters clean and tidy.
Empty refuse bins. Assist with the on/off load of deliveries. Perform general
work as delegated by supervisor from time to time.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.E Hlatshwayo at 072 032 7056 or Ms. K.L Mdlalose at 076 235 7030
190
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS, RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND LAND
REFORM
APPLICATIONS : Post Name and quote the relevant reference number. The applications can be
posted to: Department of Agriculture, Environmental Affairs, Rural
Development and Land Reform, Private Bag X5018, Kimberley, 8301 or Email
to: blommiejacobs@ncpg.gov.za or tpika@ncpg.gov.za or Hand delivered
applications may be submitted at reception, Temothuo House, Old Kimberlite
Hotel, 162 George Street, Kimberley.
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs. L. Phayane
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2026
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Failure to do so,
your application will be disqualified. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied
by its own application form for employment and must be fully completed,
initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully
complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83 it is acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached.
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part “F” must be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience if any) and a completed
and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview following the communication
from Human Resources and such qualification(s) and other related
document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply
with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications
received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence
will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). Please note by responding to the
advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and storing of your
Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA) Your information will be used solely for the purpose of this
promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior consent unless
required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate will
be expected to sign a performance agreement. The Department is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the
Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s).
191
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/301 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND COORDINATION OFFICER IN THE
OFFICE OF THE MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL:
DIRECTORATE: OFFICE OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT REF NO:
DAERL/04/01/26
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in Administration / Public Administration and / or equivalent
qualification at NQF level 6 three (3) years’ experience applicable to the
relevant discipline at Assistant Director Level. Valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Broad knowledge and understanding of the functional areas
covered by the Executive Authority’s portfolio, Proven management
competencies, Working knowledge of the political and parliamentary processes
in South Africa. Computer literacy, Flexibility, Verbal and written communication
skills and Interpersonal relations. Analytical thinking, Leadership, Teamwork,
Ability to work under pressure, proven management competencies,
Understanding of administrative procedure and knowledge of relevant policies
and regulations.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and maintain system, registers and database to monitor
and manage the flow of documents to, from and within the office of the
Executive Authority. Compile correspondence, submissions and cabinet
memoranda as required. Manage the procurement and maintenance of
equipment and administer to budget in the office of the Executive Authority.
Manage logistical support in the office of the Executive Authority. Ensure that
documents are classified in accordance with the MISS prescripts and are
handled in accordance with their classifications. Liaise with internal and
external role-players with regard to matters relating to the portfolio of the
Executive Authority. Brief the Head of Office on matters regarding the
Executive Authority portfolio on the agenda of Cabinet/Executive council;
Manage the distribution of memoranda to Cabinet/Executive Council member;
Manage the distribution of documents and submissions to the relevant
legislature and standing/portfolio committees. Keep record of decisions of
Cabinet/ Executive Council and alert the Head of Office and Executive
Authority of actions to be taken and due dates. General supervision of the
employees in the office of the Executive Authority; Ensure that all supervisees
are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard
efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K. Mohibidu at 082 509 9374
POST 13/302 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: DAERL/04/05/26
SALARY : R879 342 per annum, all-inclusive package, (OSD)
CENTRE : Upington
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an appropriate degree in Agricultural/Civil
Engineering (B Eng/BSc) or relevant equivalent qualification at NQF level 7
with minimum 2 years post qualification experience in agricultural/civil
engineering and registered as a professional engineer. Compulsory
registration with ECSA. Problem solving and analysis, client orientation and
customer focus. Service delivery innovation and good communication skills.
Technical competencies and in-depth knowledge of engineering design
principles. Engineering and professional judgment. Contract management and
knowledge of legal and operational compliance. Valid drivers’ license is
compulsory – minimum code 8.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Design,
construction and contract management of irrigation systems, crop processing
plants, packaging facilities, animal housing, green houses, farm mechanization
(tractors and relevant planters and implements) and other farm structures.
Knowledge of Model Maker design program, AUTOCAD, surveying with
Trimble GPS and processing with Trimble Business Centre survey programs
will be an advantage. Good written and verbal communication skills. Computer
literate, be able to work on the following software programs, Microsoft Office
and Power Point. Excellent interpersonal relation skills, ability to handle tasks
of a multi-faceted nature, sound communication skills both verbal, working
under pressure with deadlines and written, problem solving. Technical and
192
engineering skills would be expected in agricultural development support
programs, i.e. CASP, ILLIMA LETSEMA and Land Care. Travel and working in
other remote areas in Northern Cape would be expected from the successful
candidate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WJJ. De Bruyn at 083 292 0386
POST 13/303 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: DAERL/04/03/26
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, all-inclusive package, (OSD)
CENTRE : Koopmansfontein Research Station
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a BSc Hons in Agriculture, Animal
Science with a five years’ research experience. Knowledge, experience and
skills in basic concepts of and the latest developments in animal production
technology, together with the ability to manage a scientific research unit is
highly recommended. Preference will also be given to candidates with sound
communication skills and experience in budgeting, expenditure control and
human resource management. Proven statistical skills and computer literacy is
required for the execution of most tasks and a valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be required to render expert and needs based research,
development and technology transfer services impacting on development
objectives. Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and
procedures; Identify gaps and develop appropriate interventions; monitor and
evaluate programme performance; Provide scientific support and advice; To
provide scientific analysis and regulatory functions; Conduct analysis of
scientific data; Formulate proposals and compile reports; develop and
customize scientific models and techniques. Continuous research and
development of studies to improve expertise; Human Capital development –
Mentor, train and develop candidate scientists and others to promote skills /
knowledge transfer and adherence to sound scientific principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T. Sedumedi at 083 401 8023
POST 13/304 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: DAERL/04/04/26
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, all-inclusive package, (OSD)
CENTRE : Vaalharts Research Station
REQUIREMENTS : The applicant must be in possession of a BSc Hons in Agriculture, Animal
Science with a five years’ research experience. Knowledge, experience and
skills in basic concepts of and the latest developments in animal production
technology, together with the ability to manage a scientific research unit is
highly recommended. Preference will also be given to candidates with sound
communication skills and experience in budgeting, expenditure control and
human resource management. Proven statistical skills and computer literacy is
required for the execution of most tasks and a valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be required to render expert and needs based research,
development and technology transfer services impacting on development
objectives. Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and
procedures; Identify gaps and develop appropriate interventions; monitor and
evaluate programme performance; Provide scientific support and advice; To
provide scientific analysis and regulatory functions; Conduct analysis of
scientific data; Formulate proposals and compile reports; develop and
customize scientific models and techniques. Continuous research and
development of studies to improve expertise; Human Capital development –
Mentor, train and develop candidate scientists and others to promote skills /
knowledge transfer and adherence to sound scientific principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T. Sedumedi at 083 401 8023
POST 13/305 : CANDIDATE ENGINEER REF NO: DAERL/04/06/26
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R761 157 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an appropriate 3-4 years’ National Higher
diploma or BTECH degree in Civil Engineering or Relevant qualification.
Compulsory registration with ECSA Relevant Experience in the field of the
Engineering Sector will be an advantage. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Computer literate, be able to work on the following
software’s, Microsoft Office, Power point. Excellent interpersonal relation skills,
193
Ability to handle tasks of a multi-faceted nature, Sound communication skills
both verbal and written, Problem solving skills. Valid drivers’ license – minimum
code 8.
DUTIES : Design and construction contract management of irrigation, sub-surface,
drainage, water run-off control, soil conservation structures and stock water
systems. Design and construction contract management of other on-farm
infrastructure i.e. fences, animal handling and housing facilities, dams,
buildings. Technical and engineering skills in agricultural development support
programs, i.e. CASP, ILLIMA, and LETSEMA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WJJ De Bruyn at 083 292 0386
POST 13/306 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A – COMMUNICATION
AND AWARENESS RAISING REF NO: DAERL/04/02/26
SALARY : R612 480 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An Undergraduate (NQF 7) in Environmental Sciences, Communication
Science/ Social Sciences or Educational qualifications or relevant equivalent
qualification. Five years’ experience at a middle management level would be
regard as an added advantage in the relevant field. Knowledge of government
prescripts and protocols, administrative procedures, financial management,
project management, educational systems and protocols, extensive
administrative experience, quality control with regard to meeting procedures &
minute taking, extensive administrative experience and HR Practices.
Communication skills (written and spoken), leadership and management skills,
coordination skills, planning and organizational skills, decision-making skills
and report writing skills.
DUTIES : Manage the development and implementation of stakeholder engagement
plan. Develop, implement and manage the Department’s Environmental
education and awareness campaigns strategies and plans. Manage the
development and implementation of community outreach and Eco - school’s
engagement programs. Engage the district offices in the development of issue
/ locally based stakeholder engagement programs. Provide leadership in
measuring the effectiveness of environmental education approaches employed
by the department. Develop projects and action plans. Develop educational
tools to promote environmental action within the communities of the Northern
Cape.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B. Fisher at 082 563 0224
POST 13/307 : ASSISTANT MANAGER: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DAERL/04/19/26
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF level 6 as recognized by
SAQA) in Supply Chain Management or Public Administration or Public
Management or Financial Management coupled with at least 3 years’ relevant
experience at supervisory level or SL 7/8 within a SCM environment. A good
understanding of the relevant government regulatory framework. Good
knowledge of Transversal Systems, PFMA and Establishment. Proven
leadership, strategic management, Conflict Management, financial
management, problem -solving, people management skills. Excellent in
administrative, coordination and organizational skills. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Computer skills. Ability to work under pressure and
independently. A valid code 08 driving license.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation of demand, and acquisition processes: Coordinate
the invitation, evaluation and adjudication of quotations. Investigate the
availability of the required source in the market. Assess the needs of the end
users. Compile Demand Management Plan and Procurement Plan. Promote
and ensure compliance with the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment
Act (BBBEE) and the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, 2000
(Act 5 of 2000) (PPPFA) in the Department. Ensure that optimal sourcing
strategies and techniques are used. Establish and maintain a database of
suppliers when obtaining quotations. Co-ordinate and facilitate Procurement
Committee meetings Demand and Acquisition Management including
overseeing secretariat function of Bid Committees i.e. Bid Specification
Committee, Bid Evaluation Committee and Bid Adjudication Committee.
194
Maintenance of up-to-date asset register: Ensure that all assets are recorded
in the asset register. Ensure that new acquisitions are recorded in the asset
register. Reconcile asset register with BAS. Ensure that asset reconciliation
through physical verification is being conducted quarterly. Efficient
management of assets: Ensure that assets are marked and bar coded. Manage
the movement of assets and the signing of transfer forms. Review asset
description. Management of disposal: Championing of disposal of assets to
NGOs for districts. Ensure that all assets identified for disposal are bar-coded
and listed correctly. Ensure proper keeping of all assets that have been
disposed of. Consolidate asset register for all districts. Performance of logistics
management: Ensure that stock counting is done quarterly. Produce status
report on the findings of stock taking. Monitoring of the ordering, receipt and
storing of stationery and printing consumables. Implementation of policies to
minimize risk of losses: Ensure that all stock items are reported and follow-up
is done. Ensure that all officials are aware of the loss control policies. Manage
the allocated resources of the Sub-directorate in line with legislative and
departmental policy directives and comply with corporate governance and
planning imperatives: Maintain high standards by ensuring that the team /
section produces excellent work in terms of quality / quantity and timeliness.
Resolve problems of motivation and control with minimum guidance from
manager. Delegate functions to staff based on individual potential provide the
necessary guidance and support and afford staff adequate training and
development opportunities. Ensure timeous development of job description
and implementation of Work Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s)
for all employees in the Sub directorate. Manage daily employee performance
and ensure timely Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Ensure
management, maintenance and safekeeping of assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R.O. Enele at 072 632 9673
POST 13/308 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A: IMPACT
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DAERL/04/07/26
SALARY : R343 842 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Kuruman
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma / B-Degree) in the
Natural Sciences or Environmental Sciences / Management / equivalent
Science Degree with at least 2 years post qualification experience in EIAs,
Environmental Management or related field. A valid driver’s licence. Broad
knowledge in EIA Regulations and administration in terms of NEMA (Act 107
of 1998) and other related environmental regulations governing the
environment. Knowledge on Integrated Environmental Management. Good
verbal and written communication and report writing skills are essential. Basic
knowledge of: public administration; presentation skills; computer literacy;
interpersonal skills; ability to work independently and in a team and good
facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Process EIA applications, provide technical advice and procedural advice to
stakeholders and applicants. Attend Environmental Management Committee
meetings as required for project presentations and technical advice. Conduct
site inspections, draft and recommend environmental authorisation for
submission and decision-making by relevant delegated authority. Disseminate
relevant information on State of the Environment reporting, provide information
to internal clients to enable effective and efficient cross-functioning of
integrated environmental management, etc. Perform all administrative and
procedure required for the effective and efficient operation Impact Assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B. Fisher at 082 563 0224
195
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 04 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/309 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACCOUNTS AND FINANCIAL REPORTING
(ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 18/2026
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree at NQF level 7 (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Financial Accounting / Management; A minimum of 3 years
relevant experience in financial accounting at supervisory/ management level
(ASD). Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Financial background
specifically in Public Sector Finance; Personal and Salary Administration
(PERSAL) and Basic Accounting System (BAS); Relevant legislation,
directions and procedures with regard to financial administration and more
specifically of: PFMA, NTR'S, PTI'S and SCOA; How to do basic
research/gather information/analysing; Interpretation of policies and
procedures; Record keeping procedures; Updating and compiling Standard
Operating Procedures for the Department in accordance with relevant
legislation; Accounting - To provide financial administration and accounting
services (ledgers/journals, accounting and reporting (interim and annual
financial statements). Skills in the following: Good planning and organisational;
Problem solving and decision making within the field of work; Good
communication skills (speaking, writing and reading); Maintain discipline and
dealing with conflict; Routine verbal exchange of information requiring
helpfulness and politeness; Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, Internet, Outlook); Ability to solve financial problems; Ability
to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Manage the alignment of accounts management and financial reporting
policies and procedures; Undertake revenue expenditure management and
accounting work as required; Undertake Financial Planning, budget and
reporting work as required. Manage the sub- directorate Accounts and financial
reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Jacobsz at Tel No: (021) 808 5032
POST 13/310 : SENIOR AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR: AGRICULTURAL PRODUCER
SUPPORT AND DEVELOPMENT (CAPE WINELANDS- STELLENBOSCH)
REF NO: AGR 19/2026
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
196
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4 year BSc Agric degree majoring in Agricultural Economics or
BAgric Honours degree majoring in Agricultural Economics on NQF level 8 or
equivalent; Registered with SACNASP or any other recognised professional
body (Proof to be submitted); A minimum of 3 years experience in agricultural
extension; A valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Agricultural production economics and agricultural economics;
Production of crops and livestock produced in the specific area, also markets
and value adding; Project management practices; Good research skills;
Excellent written and verbal communication and report; Sound organizational
and leadership abilities; Good understanding of the land reform, programme
and project implementation; Excellent communication (written and verbal
skills); Proven computer literacy in MS Office; (MS Word, MS Excel, MS
Outlook, MS Power Point).
DUTIES : Compilation of enterprise budgets and cashflow statements within fruit,
livestock vegetables and wine commodities; Conduct relevant project
evaluation within the monitoring and evaluation framework; Deliver continuous
support to all farmers, especially developing farmers across all functions, which
include land reform, infrastructure development, extension and support on
production and economic principles, institutional support as well as capacity
building and food security; Assist with research and demonstration trials;
Provide information on markets; Facilitate workshops and planning sessions to
determine needs and progress; Promote sustainable production systems;
Write reports regarding economical progress; Facilitate the development of
organisational skills of the developing agricultural sector; Facilitate relevant
recordkeeping and economical training as well as support to projects;
Participate as a member of the project team by giving economical input and for
the compilation of business plans; General office administration; Ensure the
implementation of Agricultural Information Management System (AIMS);
Facilitate, engage and provide inputs to Implementing Agencies and relevant
Commodity Project Allocation Committees in the delivery and implementation
of projects lead, guide and provide support to lower level extension staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D Chitepo Tel No: (021) 808 5100
POST 13/311 : LECTURER: AGRONOMY (ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 20/2026
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year BSc degree (equivalent or higher qualification); A
minimum of 3 years appropriate experience; A valid (Code B or higher) driving
licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Proven
knowledge of the following: Agronomy Production; Vegetable crops produced
and alternative crops produced in the Western Cape; Presentation; Verbal and
Written communication skills; Computer literacy; Leadership, Planning and
Organising skills; Formal training and presentation.
DUTIES : Prepare lesson plans and present practical, theoretical and/or short courses;
Renewal and development of course material and study guides; Assessment
of students through compilation of question papers and memorandums for
examination; Administrative responsibilities; Keep abreast of applicable
prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new developments in the
subject field.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Abrahams Tel No: (021) 808 5480
POST 13/312 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ADMIN SUPPORT FACILITIES
MAINTENANCE (ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 04/2026
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year relevant experience; A valid (Code EB)
driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who
have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge and understanding of the following: Relevant legislation/ policies/
prescripts and procedures; Financial regulations and instructions to ensure
smooth administrative functioning of the financial administration and
procurement; Working procedures in terms of the working environment;
Disciplinary code and procedures; OHS procedures; People management.
197
Skills in the following: Written and Verbal communication; Planning and
organising; Computer literacy (MS Office Package); Analytical; Report writing
and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Oversee supply chain support services within the Sub-Directorate;
Administrative and related functions; Oversee personnel administration
support services within the component; Oversee financial administration
support services in the component; People management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Govender Tel No: (021) 808 5422
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS AND SPORT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 04 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 13/313 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND EVENT
SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: CAS 02/2026
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years middle management experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Financial Management; Human
Resources; Knowledge in Infrastructure, Research, major events and sport
tourism. Skills needed: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint etc); Communication skills (written and verbal); Ability to work
independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Managing staff; Managing budgets; Ensuring smooth operations of the
component; Leadership; Human resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Tutu Tel No: (021) 483 9621
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 04 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
198
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/314 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (INTERNAL CONTROL): ASSURANCE SERVICES
REF NO: DEDAT 09/2026
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) equivalent or higher
qualification in Internal Auditing (Majors in Auditing and Financial Accounting);
A minimum of 3 years relevant experience in an internal control and
governance environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Policy
development; Budgeting processes; Financial norms and standards (Public
Financial Management Act, National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury
directives/instructions); Public Service Anti-Corruption Strategy and Fraud
Prevention Measures; Principles and Practices of Financial Accounting;
Internal Control Tools and Techniques; Government Accounting Standards
(GRAP); Economic Reporting Framework including Standard Charts of
Accounts; Risk Management Frameworks; Government Financial Systems;
Human Resource Management. Skills in the following: Report writing;
Interpersonal relations; Flexibility; Teamwork; Accuracy; Aptitude of figures;
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint);
Communication skills (written and verbal); Ability to work independently and as
part of a team.
DUTIES : Provide Assurance Services; Management of irregular, fruitless and wasteful
expenditure and investigations; Report to key stakeholders on the financial
governance and compliance environment; Co-ordination of internal and
external auditors; Policy formulation, drafting of internal control policy and
training; Provide fraud and losses management services; Manage and
undertake all administrative functions required with regard to financial and HR
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Mott Tel No: (021) 483 9088
POST 13/315 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL ECONOMIC SUPPORT REF NO:
DEDAT 10/2026
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Economics; A minimum of 3 years administrative experience in
project management; 3 years’ experience in data analysis. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Economic development (refers to a practical
understanding of the processes, programs, and policies that improve a
community's economic well-being and quality of life); Development economics
(refers to a technical, academic understanding of the theories, models, and
methods used to analyse the economic issues of developing nations); Project
Management; Relationship and stakeholder management; Monitoring and
evaluation methods, tools and techniques; Skills in the following: Planning and
Organising; Working with People; Analysing; Relating and Networking;
Following Instructions and Procedures; Writing and Reporting; Delivering
Results and Meeting Customer Expectations; Computer literacy in MS Office
Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Communication skills (written and verbal);
Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Facilitate capacity building of municipalities in the regions; Support the building
of partnerships, IGR, cross-cutting and area-specific initiatives that promotes
alignment of economic activities in region; Support the implementation of
spatial economic growth initiatives in regions; Support the building of business
partnerships for growth opportunities across regions; Support the coordination
of municipal-level data and intelligence.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Dharsey Tel No: (021) 483 7508
199
POST 13/316 : OFFICE MANAGER: STRATEGIC ECONOMIC ACCELERATORS AND
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DEDAT 11/2026
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years experience in rendering executive support
functions to top management. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Administrative and HR administration; Systems and knowledge management
administration; Communication and marketing project management; Public
Service Regulatory Framework; Financial and people management;
Information and records management; Relevant software packages;
Intergovernmental and international relations. Skills in the following: Computer
literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Communication
(written and verbal); Basic research; Project planning; Financial management;
Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Render line administrative support services; Execute research, analyse
information and compile complex documents for the DDG; Manage resources
of the Office of the DDG, including office budgets, asset control & petty cash;
Developing and managing systems within the branch to improve administrative
efficiencies; Providing project support to the Office of the DDG; Remain abreast
of policies and procedures; Communication & Digital Content Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ilse van Schalkwyk Tel No: (021) 483 9494
POST 13/317 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT
REF NO: DEDAT 13/2026
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or relevant higher tertiary qualification; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
rendering a support service to management/ senior management.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Relevant legislation/ policies/
prescripts and procedures; Basic financial administration; Ability to run and
maintain a record management system; Procurement of goods and services;
Ability to properly record minutes and decisions at meetings; Advanced
knowledge of relevant software packages. Skills in the following: Computer
literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Report writing,
Organising and planning; Time management; Recording of minutes;
Communication skills (written and verbally); Research; Analytical skills; Ability
to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/ receptionist support service to the manager; Render
administrative support services, inclusive of: Scrutinising routine submissions/
reports and make notes and/or recommendations for the manager; Collects,
analyses and collates information requested by the manager; Provide support
to the manager regarding meetings, inclusive of: Scrutinising documents to
determine actions/information/ other documents required for meetings;
Collecting and compilation of all necessary documents for the manager to
inform him/her on the contents; Recording of minutes/ decisions and
communicating to relevant role-players, follow-up on progress made;
Preparation of briefing notes for the manager as required; Support the manager
with the administration of the manager’s budget; Study the relevant Public
Service and departmental prescripts/ policies and other documents and
ensures that the application.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Julies Tel No: (021) 483 9000
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 04 May 2026
200
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/318 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER (SPECIALISED PRODUCTION): AIR
QUALITY PLANNING AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REF NO: EADP
05/2026
SALARY : R498 916 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Honours Degree in Environmental Management or Physical /
Natural Sciences or Engineering (or an equivalent qualification); A valid (Code
B) driving license. Competencies: Working knowledge and relevant experience
of the following: Environmental Management, Integrated Environmental
Management, particularly Air Quality Management; Air Quality Monitoring;
Environmental Legislation; Compliance and Enforcement and Project
Management / Planning; Environmental Management (air quality
management, integrated environmental management; pollution management);
Air Quality Management Systems (e.g., atmospheric emission licensing, air
quality management planning, etc.); Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement,
with respect to statutory obligations (e.g. NEMA; NEM:AQA); Environmental
legislation, particularly as it relates to air quality management (e.g., NEMA,
NEM:AQA). Skills in the following: General Office / Administration in respect of
Budgeting and Financial Management; Human Resource Management
(Supervisory and Mentoring); Research and report writing skills, including the
ability to analyse, interpret and respond to scientific and technical reports;
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc); Ability
to work independently and as part of a team; Communication skills (written and
verbal).
DUTIES : Provide specialised advice and technical expertise towards the development
and administration of Air Quality Management systems legislation and policies;
Provide specialised support, guidance and technical advice on the
development and implementation of specific projects (e.g. Atmospheric
Emissions Licensing, Emissions Inventory, Dispersion Modelling, Air Quality
Management Planning, information management and capacity building);
Contribute towards the development and implementation of air quality
management planning and governance, and reporting; Provide specialised
inputs on compliance monitoring and enforcement with respect to statutory
obligations (NEMA and NEM: AQA); Provide support and input to all financial
management, human resource management, administrative and strategic
planning and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Joy Leaner at (joy.leaner@westerncape.gov.za)/ Tel No: (021) 483 2798
POST 13/319 : ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT OFFICER: ENVIRONMENTAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT REF NO: EADP 06/2026
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant administrative experience; A valid
201
code B (or higher) driving license. Note: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities but have reasonable access to transport may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Financial and administrative
prescripts governing the public sector, the Western Cape Government and the
Department; Legislation, regulations, policies and prescripts that are relevant
to the Department and the component; General office administration
processes; Database and information management processes; Project
administration processes; Record-keeping legislation, regulations, policies,
prescripts and processes; People management prescripts, policies and
processes; Supply Chain Management. Skills needed: Computer Literacy (MS
Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc.); Accounting, Finance and Audit; Ability to
work independently and as part of a team; Must be able to meet strict
deadlines.
DUTIES : Facilitate procedural and administrative functions aligned with operational
compliance; Coordinate and maintain environmental data systems to support
policy implementation and regulatory reporting; Provide logistics and
secretariat services to relevant stakeholders within the component; Administer
financial processes to support environmentally aligned procurement,
budgeting, and reporting functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Bassier Tel No: (021) 483 3506
POST 13/320 : ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT OFFICER: WASTE POLICY AND
MINIMISATION REF NO: EADP 07/2026
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant administrative experience; A valid
code B (or higher) driving license. Note: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities but have reasonable access to transport may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Financial and administrative
prescripts governing the public sector, the Western Cape Government and the
Department; Legislation, regulations, policies, and prescripts that are relevant
to the Department and the component; General office administration
processes; Database and information management processes; Project
administration processes; Record-keeping legislation, regulations, policies,
prescripts and processes; People management prescripts, policies and
processes; Supply Chain Management Skills needed: Computer Literacy (MS
Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc.); Accounting, Finance and Audit; Ability to
work independently and as part of a team; Must be able to meet strict
deadlines.
DUTIES : Facilitate procedural and administrative functions aligned with operational
compliance; Coordinate and maintain environmental data systems to support
policy implementation and regulatory reporting; Provide logistics and
secretariat services to relevant stakeholders within the component; Administer
financial processes to support environmentally aligned procurement, budgeting
and reporting functions; Asset management; Perform supervisory functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Boonzaaier Tel No: (021) 483 8321
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 05 May 2026, 17:00 PM
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the advert for the POST12/165: Operational
Manager Nursing (Specialty Unit: Psychiatry), Salary R693 096 per annum,
202
Centre: Valkenberg Hospital, advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular
12 dated 10 April 2026, with Ref No: 12/165: Post has been cancelled.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/321 : CLINICAL MANAGER (MEDICAL) GRADE 1
Garden Route District
SALARY : R1 422 810 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.), (Plus non- pensionable rural allowance of
18% of your annual basic salary).
CENTRE : Oudtshoorn Hospital, Oudtshoorn Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPSCA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: A minimum of 3 years of
appropriate experience as a Medical Officer after registration with HPCSA as
a Medical Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence
(Code B/EB). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate
effectively (verbal and written) Management experience at a Health Facility. A
commuted overtime contract is compulsory, as well as the ability to work after-
hours.
DUTIES : Quality clinical, non-clinical and medico-legal patient care as required by the
various programmes of the Department of Health. Supervise-, Support -,
transfer of knowledge to-, training- and mentoring of the clinical staff and
auxiliary staff. Provide an efficient administration service regarding all clinical
and non-clinical matters and medico-legal work. Provide guidance and
leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the
division. Ensure a cost-efficient service at the clinical level with regard to
laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and equipment.
Willingness to travel throughout the district.
ENQUIRIES : Dr CA Dreyer Tel No: (044) 203-7204
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment.
POST 13/322 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (INTERNAL MEDICINE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 1: R1 773 222 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Internal
Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Internal Medicine. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence, willingness and ability to travel. It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime within
the Metro Health Services. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work as
a specialist physician at a Large District Hospital attached to a teaching
institution. Verbal and written communication skills. Knowledge and
understanding of relevant legislation, hospital procedures and policies.
DUTIES : Provision of specialist care to outpatients and inpatients (including ICU and
high care). Clinical service leadership and oversight at Victoria hospital. Clinical
link and between the Community Health Centres and Victoria and Groote
Schuur and False Bay. Outreach to western subdistrict. Training and teaching
203
of students, interns, medical officers and registrars. Clinical governance and
management for the Department of Internal Medicine including handling
medico-legal enquires.
ENQUIRIES : Dr GL Dunbar Tel No: (021) 799-1211: Graeme.Dunbar@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/323 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (RADIATION ONCOLOGY)
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirement of the job: Participation in commuted overtime (after-hours
emergency service) is compulsory. Valid driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Post-community service clinical experience in an
appropriate field of medicine (Internal medicine, surgery, emergency medicine,
oncology, anaesthetics). Appropriate post-community service clinical
experience, under on-site supervision of a registered Clinical Oncologist.
Proven dedication to patient care and to maintaining professional integrity.
Current ACLS certification. Computer literacy in MS Word, TEAMS and Excel
or similar, including the ability to use online resources relevant to the discipline.
Excellent communication skills. Good interpersonal and organisational skills
and proven ability to function well within a team and to communicate effectively
with all categories of staff as well as students. Palliative Care qualification
(short course, diploma or Master’s level. Research skills.
DUTIES : Provide a high-quality clinical oncology service to cancer patients and their
families including radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and palliative and supportive
care under the supervision of specialist Clinical Oncologists and the Head of
Division. Supervision of junior medical staff to ensure quality of care and good
clinical outcomes. Informal teaching and training of junior staff in the course of
clinical work. Teaching (formal and informal) of undergraduate medical
students. Achieve success in the FC Rad Onc Part I exam after 6 months and
FC Rad Onc Part II exam of the CMSA prior to the end of the four-year contract.
Graduation with an MMed (Rad Therapy) degree prior to the end of the four-
year contract after completion of the required research project.
ENQUIRIES : Dr H Burger Tel No: (021) 938-4727, email. henrietteburger@sun.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 4 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
-The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stelllenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
204
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
POST 13/324 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (OPHTHALMOLOGY) (X2 POSTS)
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Commuted
overtime is compulsory. Emergency and after hour call cover. Applicants must
have a FCOphth part 1 (all 3 modules). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Post-
internship experience in Ophthalmology (under onsite supervision of a
registered ophthalmologist). Diploma in Ophthalmology. Ability to work in a
professional team. Ability to achieve and maintain good interpersonal relations
with staff, patients and their families. Excellent report, clinical note and referral
writing skills. Sound verbal and written communication skills. Experience with
teamwork, planning, organizing and coordination. Excellent administrative,
communication, analytical and problem-solving skills. Display empathy for
patients, promote advocacy and facilitate holistic treatment. Good time
management. Knowledge and practical skills for safe cataract surgery and
management of ophthalmic emergencies. Knowledge and appropriate use of
equipment. Minimum of 50 complete cataract surgeries performed.
DUTIES : Provision of safe eye care to patients. Pre-op assessment of patients, operative
management of ophthalmic conditions and post-operative care of patients.
Out-patient management of chronic eye conditions. Management of patients
admitted to the Eye ward. After hours management of emergency eye
conditions and eye trauma. Learning the art and science of eye care medicine
and surgery. Attending tutorials and assisting with the training of medical
students, nursing staff and ophthalmic assistants. Involvement in
research/audits relating to ophthalmology. Administration of registrar rosters
and the teaching program. Improving professional competence by regular self-
learning and reflection with the application of current evidence.
ENQUIRIES : Prof L Visser Tel No: (021) 938-5519
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. -“Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
205
POST 13/325 : REGISTRAR (SURGERY: GENERAL)
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent practice). Inherent
requirement of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Emergency and
after hour call cover. FCS (SA) primary examination. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge, expertise and experience with regards to
providing medical services in General Surgery. Appropriate and sufficient
clinical experience since obtaining the degree of MBChB and after completion
of internal rotations. Previous research experience (publication/conference
presentation). Post community service experience in General Surgery.
DUTIES : Leadership. Innovation and Research. Teaching. Clinical Service: Operative.
Clinical Service: Patient care. Clinical Governance.
ENQUIRIES : Prof L Cairncross Tel No: (021) 406-6229 or email:
melissa.mohamed@uct.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure
that you attach an updated CV. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all
medical officer appointments may be called upon to work across this platform
and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This
includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital,
Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial
Hospital. -The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment
Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in
this regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department
will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with University of the
Western Cape according to the yearbook and guidelines. -Consideration will
be given to existing employees who are already on higher salary packages to
retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to
receive pay progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be for a maximum
contract period of 5 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their
pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
Should registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason
the appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must indicate
whether they have bursary obligations. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates
will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application
for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
POST 13/326 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANESTHESIOLOGY) (DENTAL
MAXILLO FACIAL AND ORAL SURGERY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A qualification that allows registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
206
Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Medical Practitioner.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as a Medical Practitioner with the
HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. One 1-year relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of who is not
required to perform community service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A
minimum of five 5 years’ appropriate experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum
of six 6 years relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with
a recognized foreign Health Professional council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of who is not required to perform community service as required in
South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of ten 10 years’ experience as a Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum
of eleven 11-year relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner
with a recognized foreign Health Professional council in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of who is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Willingness to work across the Oral Health Platform.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work independently and in a multi-
disciplinary team. Interest in developing an academic career. Good computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook). Diploma in Anaesthesia (DA)SA from
the Colleges of Medicine of South Africa (CMSA) Appropriate experience in
Anaesthesia.
DUTIES : To deliver comprehensive anaesthesia to patients within the Department of
Health and Wellness healthcare facilities of the Cape metro healthcare
ecosystem. Pre-operative, intraoperative and post-operative anaesthetic
management of surgical patients. Teaching, training and supervision of junior
staff, post-graduate and undergraduate medical and dental students.
Administrative duties such as resource management, statistics, presentations
and research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Meyer Tel No: (021) 937-3086 or Dr N Behardien Tel No: (021) 937-3081
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/327 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY UNIT: TRAUMA AND
OPD)
West Coast District
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or 4 year Bachelor Degree in
Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus
R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited in
Emergency Nursing. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. Willingness to work after hours (weekends, public holidays and night
duty). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of appropriate legislation,
regulations and Departmental Policies. Knowledge of Hospital and Emergency
Centre Triage Information System (HECTIS) and South African Triage System
(Basic knowledge and experience in human resource management, labour
relations, financial and supply chain procurement processes. Experience in the
use of clinical equipment and control of budget levels. The ability to promote
quality patient care through the setting, implementation, and monitoring of
standards. Effective communication, interpretation, leadership, execute
discipline, decision-making and conflict resolution skills.
207
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care within set standards
and within a professional /legal framework. Manage effectively the utilisation
and supervision of resources. Coordination of the provision of effective training
and research. Provision of effective support to Nursing Services. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. JM Van Schalkwyk Tel No: (022) 709-7287
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/328 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: (GENERAL NURSING)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 8 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience at
management level. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
overtime should the need arise, day or night. Perform after-hour and weekend
duties in order to assist the matron or night manager as the need arises.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent conflict management skills.
Excellent writing and communication skills. Ability to work effectively and
amicably, at management level with people of diverse backgrounds and beliefs.
Basic computer literacy. Knowledge of legislation relative to the Health Care
Service and policies of the Department of Health. Ability to manage own work,
and that of the units which report to the post, and to ensure appropriate
interventions to enhance the nursing service at the institution. Skilled nurse
clinician able to lead the nursing service within the scope of practice and
accepted nursing standards.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate, supervise and delegate the provision of effective and efficient
patient care through quality nursing care within set standards and legal
framework. Participate in analysis, formulation and implementation of nursing
guidelines, practices, standards and procedures. Manage and monitor the
cost-effective utilization of human, financial and physical resources. Coordinate
the provision of effective training and research. Provide effective support to
Nursing Services and maintain professional self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Basardien Tel No: (021) 402-6485
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/329 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY UNIT: PSYCHIATRY)
(PRE DISCHARGE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212) OR A 4 year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
after obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification in Advanced Psychiatric
208
Nursing Science (R212) or a post-graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the
SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Work night
duty on a planned schedule to relief the night manager. A Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of legal
framework and regulations regarding nursing practice. Good leadership and
people management skills, maintain constructive relationships with members
of the multi-disciplinary team. Computer literacy. Basic financial management
skills. The ability to communicate (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Ensure adherence to MHCA prescripts and other legislation. Effective
management of the ward, hospital after hours, over weekends and public
holidays on a planned basis and maintain good working relationship amongst
all members of staff Manage and monitor the effective utilisation of human,
financial and physical resources as per departmental policies. Co-ordinate and
actively participate in focused training and development of permanent staff and
nursing students according to development plan. Participate in analysis,
formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, standards and
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. V Nel Tel No: (021) 826-5801
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/330 : DENTIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (5/8TH)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R607 884 (5/8th) per annum
Grade 2: R714 096 (5/8th) per annum
Grade 3: R826 470 (5/8th) per annum
A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : PHC Support and Outreach Knysna/Bitou Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dentist. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Dentist. Experience: Grade
1: None after registration as Dentist with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a
recognized foreign health professional council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service, as
necessary in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 7 years’ appropriate
experience as Dentist after registration with the HPCSA as a Dentist in respect
of SA-qualified employees. Minimum of 8 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Dentist with a recognized foreign health professional council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as necessary in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 12
years’ appropriate experience as Dentist after registration with the HPCSA as
a Dentist in respect of SA-qualified employees. Minimum of 13 years’ relevant
experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized foreign health
professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform community service, as necessary in South Africa. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB) and willingness to
travel throughout the Knysna/Bitou Sub-district. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Adhere to all departmental requirements and protocols.
Excellent report writing, clinical documentation, recording keeping and referral
writing skills. Sound verbal and written communication skills. Good computer
skills (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Comply with National Core Standards
and or ideal facility/clinic requirements as applicable and good time
management. Clinical therapeutic skills including assessment techniques,
treatment, discharge planning and follow up as needed. Ability to be flexible
and innovative in response to differing client needs.
DUTIES : Provide clinical primary and secondary dental treatment to children on the
wellness bus and inpatients and outpatients as applicable to the designated
work areas. Provide dental care support in dental clinics in the different sub-
districts within Knysna/Bitou Sub District. Provide a holistic dental service
independently and as part of a team in a hospital and primary health care
setting. Diagnose and appropriate management of patients. Daily collection
and monthly submission of data as per departmental protocols. Effective,
efficient and optimal use of resources including facilitating the repair and
maintenance of dental equipment. Stock taking and ordering of consumables
209
as required within departmental norms. Relevant in-service training and skills
transfer. Provide relevant relief duty within Knysna/Bitou Sub District in
absence of a peer colleague.
ENQUIRIES : Dr FR Potgieter Tel No: (044) 302 - 8400
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 13/331 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A (ELECTRICAL/MECHANICAL) (X2 POSTS)
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R480 261 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands District Office (X1 Post)
Overberg District Office (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Certificate in Electrical/
Mechanical Artisanship. Experience: 10 years’ appropriate post-qualification
experience in the post of Artisan/Artisan Foreman. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work overtime and attend to unplanned callouts and
emergency maintenance. Valid driver’s license (Code B/EB) and willing to
travel when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Be conversant with the
requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Computer literacy in Ms Word, Excel, Outlook and Web-based systems.
Appropriate knowledge and skills to lead infrastructure and maintenance
coordination in the district. Excellent report writing skills.
DUTIES : Lead the implementation of the workshop hub and spoke model within the
ecosystem. Coordinate the strategic planning and management of health
facility maintenance needs across the district. Manage risks, quality, assets,
stock and finances as they relate to infrastructure and maintenance projects.
Human resource management and development, including providing support
to workshop staff across the district.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O Motshweneng Tel No: (023) 348-8120/8104 (Cape Winelands District)
Ms R Zondo Tel No: (028) 214-5800 (Overberg District)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/332 : ASSITANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (SYSTEM
MANAGER: CLINICAL SYSTEMS)
Directorate: Health Information Technology (HIS Application Support Centre)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Information Technology. Experience: Appropriate experience of
hospital administrative and clinical processes. Appropriate experience working
on Electronic Health Record systems/modules. Appropriate working
experience and knowledge of Electronic Health Record systems / modules.
Appropriate experience in training and supporting system users. Appropriate
experience of Hospital Fees and patient administration policies. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel to WCDHW
health institutions. Willingness to work overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to
provide user training and support. Accurate data capturing skills. Computer
literacy, including MS Office and MS Project. Knowledge of Clinicom, HECTIS,
eCCR and other HIS modules. Understanding of Business Process Re-
engineering. Understanding of system maintenance and enhancement
process flow. Understanding and developing quality control processes. Proven
ability to work in a team environment.
DUTIES : Manage and control the Clinical systems / modules at all hospitals and clinics
in the Western Cape. Maintain and update master files, documentation, access
control and print management. Manage and ensure update of annual or adhoc
regulatory changes. Liaise with HIS management, hospital IT, and other
stakeholders on clinical system matters. Provide end-user support and resolve
210
system problems. Update and maintain user manuals and clinical system
procedures. Develop quality control script for system changes and manage test
process with formal outcome reporting. Develop system release notice for
system changes and ensure user awareness. Assist with data quality
assurance. Manage compliance of system release logs and exception reports
Drive business process re-engineering in clinical system -related areas across
hospitals. Support development and administration of new clinical system
modules. Manage Integrated Health Solution System Controllers. Collaborate
with the Finance and clinical documentation team to ensure compliance of
Clinical systems.to hospital fee and patient administration policy and manage
new enhancement requests to deployment where accepted. Provide ad hoc
support to the Deputy Director: eHealth Systems. Identify training needs and
provide training to users and core trainers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Maharaj Tel No: (021) 938-6513
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to undergo competency assessments/proficiency
tests.
POST 13/333 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MATERNITY AND
NEONATAL WARD)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing
Science (R212) OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited in Midwifery. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Proof of annual registration with the SANC. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum
of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
day and night duty, weekends, and public holidays to meet the operational
requirements. Must be prepared to assist in all departments according to
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
in Microsoft package. Effective communication skills and interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health
Western Cape. Skills to plan, organize and coordinate the service by analyzing,
problem solving and decision-making. Leadership towards the realization of
strategic goals and objectives of the Obstetric and Neonatology department.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialised nursing care with set standards and within
a professional/legal framework. Assist in managing the utilization and
supervision of all resources effectively. Assist in effective management and
utilization of human and financial resources to ensure optimal operational
functions. To assist in the planning and co-ordination of training and research
effectively. Assist to organize a cost-effective service daily and provide support
to supervisor and management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Basardien Tel No: (021) 402-6485
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
211
POST 13/334 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: ADVANCED
MIDWIFERY)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Grabouw CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree
in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus 254) that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic qualification nursing
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in
Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science (R212) OR a 4-year
bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus
R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC
in Midwifery. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Work within a shift system.
Willing to work public holidays, after-hours, night duty and weekend cover for
nursing. Assist with relief duties and partake in overall specialised area
functions, i.e. team building, supervision, training, workshops and updates.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy. Knowledge and insight of
relevant legislation and policy related to this nursing speciality within the public
sector. Ability to promote quality patient care through the setting,
implementation and monitoring of standards. Effective communication,
interpretation, leadership, decision-making and conflict resolution and
organisational skills.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and within
a professional/legal framework. Assist in managing the utilization and
supervision of all resources effectively. Assist in effective management and
utilisation of human and financial resources to ensure optimal operational
functions. To assist in the planning and co-ordination of training and research
effectively. Assist to organise a cost-effective service daily and provide support
to supervisor and management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Maqhina Tel No: (028) 212-1048
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidate will
be subjected to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in the post basic qualification in: A post-
basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the
SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science (R212) OR A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited Midwifery.
POST 13/335 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three year National Diploma/
Degree in Accounting, Financial Management, Supply Chain Management
(with Accounting/Finance modules). Experience: Appropriate experience in
asset management, with a proven track record in: Financial reporting and
compliance with the Modified Cash Standard, Managing government movable
assets, including reconciliations, disposals, and audit processes, Leading
teams and implementing asset management controls. Inherent requirement of
the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Strong leadership, conflict resolution, and project management skills. Expertise
212
in government asset management systems (e.g., LOGIS, Syspro) and
advanced Excel. Proficiency in financial reporting, reconciliations, and audit
processes. Advanced knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Treasury Regulations, and Modified Cash Standard.
DUTIES : Collaborate with finance, procurement, and clinical teams to align asset
management with budgetary and operational needs. Prepare and reconcile
monthly/quarterly financial reports, including inputs for the Annual Financial
Statements (AFS) and asset disclosure notes. Ensure accurate accounting for
assets in compliance with the Modified Cash Standard and PFMA/Treasury
Regulations, including ensuring that asset valuations align with GRAP
(Generally Recognised Accounting Practice) standards for departmental
reporting. -Manage the moveable asset management component, including
staff performance, training, and HR matters. Oversee real-time capturing of
acquisitions, transfers, disposals, and barcoding on the institutional asset
register. Plan and conduct the annual asset verification and reconcile
discrepancies between the asset register and BAS systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Schroeder Tel No: (021) 404-3248
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
POST 13/336 : QUALITY ASSURANCE COORDINATOR
West Coast District
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 4-year Health related
Diploma/degree that is registrable with any of the statutory bodies of South
Africa. Experience: Appropriate experience in Quality Assurance (QA),
Infection Prevention Control (IPC) and Occupational Health & Safety (OH&S).
Appropriate management experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
driver’s licence and willingness to travel extensively within the rural districts.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to analyse and interpret Health
Systems information, compile reports and present the data to direct planning.
Have Knowledge of Project and Financial Management. Good organisational,
interpersonal, creative problem solving and research skills. Computer literacy
(Ms Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook) Ability to communicate
effectively (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Support the Health Establishment, staff & Sub District Management Team, with
the implementation of the Ideal Hospital/Clinic Realisation and Maintenance
and Promulgated Norms & Standards requirements. Ensure the maintenance
of the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) standards. Establish measures
that will ensure Health and Safety of staff & users. Help build the competency
of staff by identifying, planning and addressing Quality Improvement (OI),
Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) and Occupational Health & Safety
training needs. Monitor data quality in the Health Establishment and update the
Health Establishment Training data base.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Van Ster Tel No: (022) 487-9269
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Applicants may
be subjected to competency assessments.
POST 13/337 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: (EMPLOYEE SOURCING)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Northern/Tygerberg Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree in Human Resource Management. Experience: Appropriate
experience and in-dept knowledge in Recruitment & Selection. Appropriate
experience on the Scube Online system. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
Code (B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to travel. Willingness to work after
hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literate in MS Office (Excel,
Word and Power point) Outlook and PERSAL. Good verbal and written
communication skills to ensure effective presentation of submissions and
policies. Knowledge of Employment Equity and Recruitment and Selection
Policy and prescripts. Knowledge of all relevant PM policies and policies.
DUTIES : Responsible for downloading of CV’s and capturing of adverts on the Scube
online system and DOTS 360 for verifications and the Biometric machine to
213
host fingerprints. Arrange and co-ordinate the logistics for the Recruitment &
Selection processes, responsible for regular update of statistical
appointments/transfers and exists on share drive. Act as HR scribe and
advisory to the panel members, optimal support to supervisor and colleagues.
Responsible to draft and scrutinize motivations for procedural correctness and
fairness, effective handling of the Approved post list (APL) and the
establishments related matters within the Sub-structure. Keep abreast with the
Recruitment & Selection Policy and PM amendments within Circulars/Policy
Frameworks, Regulations and EE stats. Responsible for salary determinations
for all disciplines and effective control of internal and external transfers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. P Petersen Tel No: (021) 815-8567
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 13/338 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
(Contract until 31 March 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
(Annual salary plus 37% in lieu of service benefits.)
CENTRE : Knysna/Bitou Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA) as a Physiotherapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of RSA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as a Physiotherapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. -Grade 3:
A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as a Physiotherapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Adhere to all departmental requirements and protocols.
Excellent report, clinical note and referral writing skills. Good computer skills
(MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Comply with National Core Standards and
or ideal facility/clinic requirements as applicable. Knowledge of prescription
and issuing of assistive devices including mobility. Clinical therapeutic skills
including assessment techniques, treatment, discharge planning and follow up
as needed. Basic to intermediate wheelchair seating assessments,
prescription, fitting and issuing and other relevant assistive devices and
therapeutic knowledge and skills within the field of physiotherapy and
rehabilitation.
DUTIES : Provide clinical physiotherapy service delivery to inpatients and outpatients as
applicable to the designated work areas. Provide clinical physiotherapy service
delivery to patients at a primary healthcare level, including transitional care
facilities/ intermediate care facilities, and relevant NGO’s applicable to the
designated work areas. Oversee physiotherapy students and support their
learning in designated clinical areas. Participate in ward rounds,
multidisciplinary meetings, and support to specialist outreaches as applicable
to the designated work area. Participate in personal, district, sub district and
hospital in-service and training programs as applicable to the designated work
area including transitional care facilities/intermediate care facilities, and
relevant’ s. Daily collection and monthly submission of data as per
departmental protocols. Effective, efficient and optimal use of resources
including facilitating the repair and maintenance of assistive devices. Stock
taking and ordering of consumables and assistive devices as required within
departmental norms. Relevant in-service training and skills transfer, clinical
214
facilitation, and mentorship of placed students. Provide relevant relief duty in
absence of a peer colleague and provide support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Dr FR Potgieter Tel No: (044) 302 - 8400
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 13/339 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4 (PRODUCTION)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R325 200 per annum
Grade 2: R397 119 per annum
Grade 3: R477 564 per annum
Grade 4: R585 441 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification as a Social Worker
that allows for registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professionals (SACSSP). Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as a Social Worker. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in social work after
registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate experience in social work after registration as a Social
Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years appropriate
experience in social work after registration as a social worker with the SACSSP.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong leadership, problem solving, decision
making and conflict resolution skills. Computer literacy (MS Office package:
Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook email). Knowledge and insight of relevant
legislation and policy related to social work service in the public sector. Good
report writing, interpersonal, leadership and planning skills. Ability to work
independently and within an interdisciplinary team to achieve functional
outcomes for clients. Knowledge and understanding of illness and disease,
human behaviour, and social systems within a health environment setting.
DUTIES : Provision of comprehensive, client centred clinical social work services to
adults and children in a district hospital. Ensure safe discharge plans, support
and protection of vulnerable individuals and families. Conduct psychosocial
assessments aimed at identifying conditions within individuals that justify
relevant interventions. Implementation of applicable social work interventions.
Effective engagement and networking with the multidisciplinary team as well
as all relevant external stakeholders. Keep up to date with new developments
in social work. Utilize and manage resources. Support social workers, social
auxiliary workers, volunteers and students. Assist with the achievement of
department and organisational goals. Perform all administrative functions
required of the job. Deliver an accountable social work service through the
appropriate implementation of social work processes.
ENQUIRIES : Dr G Dunbar Tel No: (021) 799-1211, email:
graeme.dunbar@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointments on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
215
POST 13/340 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE ADMIN (HOSPITAL FEES AND
ADMISSIONS)
West Coast District
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject. Experience: Appropriate
experience and knowledge in Patient Administration, Medical Records, archive
in a Healthcare environment, administration of Hospital Memorandum Chapter
18 and UPFS. Appropriate practical experience in Clinicom, AR, JAC, HIS,
BAS, HECTIS and LOGIS systems. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work after hours (weekends, public holidays) and overtime at
short notice. Willingness to rotate and/or relief staff within the admissions,
archive and hospital fees department within the facility. Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to execute duties
accurately and working under pressure and meet strict deadlines. Appropriate
supervisory experience to ensure that sound people management and labour
practices are implemented in a Hospital Fees and/or Patient Administration
environment. Computer Literate (Microsoft Excel, Word, Outlook, Internet).
Good communication skills (verbal and written), analytical and problem-solving
skills. Appropriate knowledge and understanding of Hospital Fees, Hospital
Information Systems (Clinicom, Account Receivable, UPFS, Cashiers
Functions, Electronic Data Interchange, JAC, Medical Records and BAS) as
well knowledge of Hospital Memorandum Chapter 18, PFMA, handling of state
money, patient valuables (Chapter 6), applicable policies and prescripts in
respect of revenue generation, reception and medical records, and all circulars,
instructions, policies and procedures related to the above.
DUTIES : Patient Administration/Reception Services: Maintain a 24-hour reception
service, management of medical records, medico-legal admin unit. Revenue
Management: ensuring there is a Revenue Generation Plan in place per
Financial Year with specific Monitoring Controls for Optimum Revenue
Collection, System Control, Data Quality and Monitoring of the Revenue Unit,
ensuring processes are in place for cash management in line with the relevant
prescripts, ensuring that Management Accounting functions are done within
prescribed timeframes. Reporting, Internal Control and Risk Management:
Management of routine and mandatory reporting on all Outputs of the Patient
Admin/Revenue units, Implementation and maintenance of effective Internal
Control in all sections, management of various Audit processes. People
management: Ensure efficient management of staffing resources in all
sections, Maintaining Organisational Structure, People Development,
Wellness and Organisational Culture, Performance Management & Review
Process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Davids Tel No: (027) 213-2039
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical test.
POST 13/341 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focus on the Key
performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Supply Chain. Appropriate Experience in Supervisory. Appropriate experience
in Contract Management. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB)
drivers licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Logis, EPS
system. Knowledge and exposure to the Public Financial Management
(PFMA), National Treasury Regulations and SCM Instructions. Computer
Literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, Outlook).
DUTIES : Ensure effective demand planning, procurement planning and asset register
management. Manage acquisition of goods, services and assets through EPS,
transversal contracts and other SCM processes in line with AOS and
delegations. Provide system approvals and implement processes to prevent
late payments. Compile and submit relevant monthly and quarterly SCM
216
reports. Maintain effective record keeping for all SCM activities and processes.
Provide regular and credible feedback to management. Oversee Asset
Management and Warehouse Management functions. Manage staff within the
relevant SCM components. Serve as a member of the Vetting and Quotation
Committee. Provide procurement support to clinics and assist other SCM
components when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Solomons Tel No: (021) 902-8058
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/342 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Support Services experience. Appropriate
Supervisory experience. Maintenance of buildings, equipment, and machinery
experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB).
Willingness to do standby and work overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to draft service level agreements/contracts and
implement standard operating procedures. Extensive knowledge of the
Treasury Regulations and Contract Management, PFMA, OHS, and Public
Service Acts. Computer skills (MS Office, Excel, and Word). Extensive
knowledge of Western Cape Government maintenance protocols. Working
knowledge of support services management or facilities management.
DUTIES : Promote and maintain acceptable standards of quality of services delivered by
the Support Service components (Transport, Linen, Porters, Switchboard,
Cleaning, Waste, Grounds, Parking, Security). Effective support of
maintenance and capital works of buildings and equipment of institution.
Ensure effective and efficient contract management. Ensure relevant policy
implementation and compliance (Occupational Health & Safety, Ideal Hospital
Framework, regulated norms & standards, etc.) at the Hospital. Support to ASD
Facility Management, Staff and Support Services section. Optimum utilisation
and supervision of human and other resources within Support Services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Levy Tel No: (021) 902-8077
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/343 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Garden Route District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Knysna Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in patient administration / admissions at a
hospital Experience of working on Clinicom system. Inherent requirement of
the job: Willingness to work 12-hour shifts (i.e. night duty, weekends, public
holidays) and work overtime when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good communication (verbal and written) skills, with internal and external
clients. Cash management – receipt and safe keeping. Appropriate knowledge
of electronic patient administration system Clinicom. Computer literacy in
Microsoft (Word, Excel and Outlook). Appropriate knowledge of uniform patient
fee schedule (UPFS).
DUTIES : Assessment of patients according to the means test when admitting patients,
update patient information and ensure availability of patient folders.
Responsible for sound cash management for revenue control which includes
the receipt of money, issue of accounts, receipt and safekeeping of money.
Open and maintain patient folders and loan of patient folders to relevant
departments on the Clinicom system. Responsible for handling of patient
enquiries. Filling of patient folders and documents on a daily basis. Record
keeping, trace old folders, compile new folders and destruction of folders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Harker Tel No: (044) 302-8400
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment.
217
POST 13/344 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Patient Administration in the Health
environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work overtime
when required, and 12-hour shifts (including night duty, weekends, and public
holidays). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of Hospital Fees Memorandum Chapter 18, PFMA, Hectis, UPFS,
Clinicom and Finance instructions.
DUTIES : Render administrative support service to patients, the public, supervisor, and
staff. Record and capture all patient information and activities (admission and
discharge of patient) accurately and promptly on Clinicom. Responsible for
effective revenue collection which includes receipt of money, issue of receipts,
and account queries. Capture all charge entries, Update Hectis. Drawing of
medical records. Relieve duties to que marshal/Helpdesk.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Solomons Tel No: (021) 902-8058
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/345 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (WARDS)
Overberg District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon Hospital, Theewaterskloof Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in a hospital setting.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts (overtime,
weekends, public holidays, and night duty). Willingness to rotate.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills verbally and
written. Computer literacy in Microsoft Office package (i.e., MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook). Experience in ordering of stock and supply chain
management processes in a hospital setting. Effective leadership,
interpersonal, problem solving, decision making, and conflict resolution skills.
Good organisational skills. Ability to function independently as well as part of a
multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of patient administration functions, e.g.,
Admission, discharge, and transfers on Clinicom/ Tier.Net.
DUTIES : Provide an effective administrative service to the Operational Manager, nurses,
and doctors in the wards. Order ward stock and responsible to manage ward
storeroom. Provide helpdesk functions to patients and visitors. Effective
utilisation of resources to assist in achieving the objectives of the ward. Relief
services when needed. Deliver effective support to the Nursing Department as
a whole.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Roman Tel No: (028) 212-3702
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates could be subjected to a practical test.
POST 13/346 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Central Karoo
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate with Mathematics and/or
Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate with
experience/competencies that focus on the Key Performance Areas (KPA’s) of
the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain or Asset
Management. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver`s license.
Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and
exposure to the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Regulations and
SCM instructions. Knowledge of LOGIS (Logistical Information System) would
be advantageous. Computer literacy (MS Office package).
DUTIES : Responsible for supply chain management at the district office, focusing of
Asset Management and Warehouse Management. Ensure Audit Compliance
and file source documents. Handle telephonic and written enquiries from user
departments. Assist with the asset disposal and acquisition planning. Report
218
on asset findings to relevant components. Assist with maintaining registers and
repairs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Stuart Tel No: (021) 830-1159
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/347 : PRINCIPAL FOOD SERVICES SUPERVISOR
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 9 (Std. 7) / General Education and
Training Certificate (GETC). Experience: Appropriate experience in a Large-
Scale Food Service Unit. Inherent requirements of the job: This is a
straight shift position within a 24/7 service. The successful candidate will be
required to work after hours and weekends (one in six), be on call, and night
shifts in- line with service requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Have
a knowledge and understanding of the basic food groups, normal and
therapeutic diets and cooking methods and Hygiene and Safety standard.
Good leadership and interpersonal skills and ability to work under pressure.
The Ability to handle industrial equipment. Dress according to Departmental
specifications.
DUTIES : Assist the Manager with Human and Financial Resource Management
(Responsible for subordinates quarterly SPMS reporting, training allocation,
leave, discipline and stock control of the Recon Kitchen). Communicate with
patients and ward staff and feedback any problems and recommendations to
the food service manager. Supervise FSA’s in the running of a
reconstitution/kitchen and the night duty food service aid’s in the Main Kitchen
from 18h30-06h30. Supervising and assisting with service of 3 meals and 4
beverages daily to the Patients, and with the cleaning and maintenance of the
kitchen area and equipment and adhere to hygiene and safety standards.
Supervising service of the 20h00 tea and snack and the 05h00 coffee to the
Patients on the wards, collect and cleaning of cups afterwards and supervise
the cooking of the porridge for breakfast. To supervise FSA’s in the unloading
and cleaning of supper trolleys and the washing of the crockery, lids, trays etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Mapekula Tel No: (021) 404-4002
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/348 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource Management.
Appropriate PERSAL experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound
knowledge of HRM Policies and Practices, Public Regulations, Collective.
Agreements regarding personnel and salary administration. Computer literacy
(MS Office package and Outlook). Ability to maintain confidentiality. Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines. Ability to work independently and in
a team. Appropriate knowledge and experience of PERSAL.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to the personnel administration
section e.g. appointments, service terminations, transfers, pension
administration, salary administration, leave, housing, injury on duty, debt
management, verify documents, qualifications, etc. Handle personnel inquiries
and correspondence (written and verbal) and filing of personnel data.
Responsible for capturing transactions on PERSAL. Maintain registers (PILIR,
RWOEE, Appointments and Service Terminations). Auditing of Personnel and
Leave records. Assist with Recruitment and Selection Process and
SPMS/PERMIS. Assist staff, supervisor and management with regard to
Human Resource and Personnel matters. Provide an effective support to
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Pieters Tel No: (021) 370 1419
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/349 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
219
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate with Mathematics and/or
Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate with
experience/competencies that focus on the Key Performance Areas (KPA’s) of
the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid Driver’s Licence. Willingness to Treasury
Regulations and SCM instructions. Knowledge of LOGIS and/or SYSPRO, ESL
and EPS system. Computer literacy (MS travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of and exposure to the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) National Office): Word, Excel, Outlook.
DUTIES : Adequate demand planning for warehousing. Ensure proper inventory
verifications are performed. Storage and safekeeping of stock. Proper record
keeping is maintained. Forms part of IFS and AFS reporting. Assisting in other
components within SCM. Monthly reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Overmeyer Tel No: (021) 830-1160
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/350 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate with
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s)
of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in stock handling. Appropriate
working experience in LOGIS. Knowledge and appropriate experience in
Supply Chain Management and Warehouse Management. Inherent
requirement of the job: Ability to lift and move heavy boxes and stock.
Willingness to work overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy in MS Word, MS Excel and Outlook. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Good organizational and time management skills. The
ability to function independently. Ability to think creatively and apply ideas.
DUTIES : Completion and capturing of requisitions, receipt voucher and issue voucher
on LOGIS. Receiving of goods and updating of Bin cards. Update monthly
consumption report. Rotation within the SCM department. Packing and
removing of stock from storage areas and shelves and delivering to end users.
Ensure accurate stock and compliance controls i.e. applying FIFO principle,
etc. Maintain stock levels and ordering of stock i.e. completion of PA, etc.
Regular reporting i.e. monthly Inventory reporting, stock takes, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Solomons Tel No: (021) 902-8058
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/351 : FORENSIC PATHOLOGY OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 2
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R217 092 per annum
Grade 2: R252 840 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Service
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate with having achieved
English, mathematics, Life Science and / or Biology as passed subjects.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: 10 year’s appropriate Forensic
Pathology Service experience. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (code
B/EB) driver’s licence. Ability to work under pressure. Willingness to be trained
in Forensic Investigation and Dissection. Ability to work with and lift corpses,
(mutilated, decomposed, infectious viruses, obese). Be willing on travelling
long distances and working standby duties / overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer and software literacy in at least MS Word and
Excel. Ability to be trained in 4x4 Vehicle handling. Ability to be trained in
photography. Ability to communicate clearly and discreetly in person and in
writing. Willingness to assist with duties in an X-ray room. Ability to achieve and
maintain good interpersonal and working relations with staff and clients. Ability
to interpret and apply policies. Will be required to deliver testimony in court
proceedings.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient recovery, storage and processing of deceased. An
effective identification process and release of the deceased, including
management of property. An effective forensic autopsy process and specimen
220
management rendered in accordance with set standards and guidelines.
Optimal control of reports and statements during and after the Forensic
Mortuary process. An efficient support service to the Manager with regard to
Corporate and Clinical Governance functions of the Forensic Pathology
Laboratory.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Ontong Tel No: (021) 862-2047 or email:
Dawn.Ontong@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates will be subjected to
security clearance prior to appointment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Paarl Forensic Pathology Laboratory, for a
period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
POST 13/352 : ORTHOPADIC & PROSTHETIC ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 2 (TECHNICAL
SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R217 092 per annum
Grade 2: R252 840 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre (Orthotic and Prosthetic Centre,
Pinelands)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification or prescribed in
service training (with duration of less than two years) that allows for the
required registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Orthotics and Prosthetics
Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to lift patients. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Technical abilities, computer literacy skills. Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to work independently.
Understanding of orthotic and prosthetic devices, including types, components,
and functions. Knowledge of human anatomy and physiology, including
musculoskeletal and nervous system.
DUTIES : Assist the Medical Orthotist Prosthetist clinicians to prepare material and tools
for measuring patients. Assist the Medical Orthotist Prosthetist clinicians to
modify or correct patient measurements. Assist the Medical Orthotist
Prosthetist clinicians to mould orthoses or laminate prosthetic sockets or bend
metal bars for callipers. Assist the Medical Orthotist Prosthetist clinicians to cut
and assemble the Orthotic and prosthetic device. Assist the Medical Orthotist
Prosthetist clinicians to clean each area involved in stages of production. Assist
the Medical Orthotist Prosthetist clinicians to adjust and repair Orthotist and
Prosthetist devices. Assist the Medical Orthotist Prosthetist clinicians to
perform administrative duties service including collection of statistics for
production work and completing job cards. Assist to Maintain machinery and
other equipment used in the Medical Orthotist Prosthetist Centre. Participate
in general cleaning of the Medical Orthotist Prosthetist Centre. Leather work
and sewing of straps or belts for use in appliances. Adhere to HPCSA
regulations and attend staff development programs within the Medical Orthotist
Prosthetist field. Perform any other reasonable duties delegated by supervisor
from time to time within the Medical Orthotist Prosthetist assistant's scope of
practice.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Brink Tel No: (021) 531-5300/5218
NOTE : “Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 13/353 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (FEMALE/CHILDRENS’S WARD AND
MATERNITY/NEONATAL) (X3 POSTS)
West Coast Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
221
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as an Enrolled Nurse. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at SANC as
an Enrolled Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/ recognizable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends, public
holidays and night duty as well as overtime when necessary. Ability to work in
a high stress environment. Willingness to rotate between Wards.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions
independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication
and interpersonal relationships. Basic computer skills in MS Word and Outlook.
Knowledge of relevant nursing legislation, policies and protocols of the
Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans, carried out under
the supervision of the Professional Nurse, to deliver adequate patient care.
Provide basic clinical nursing care to patients under the supervision of the
Professional Nurse. Effective utilization of resources, including stock and
equipment and proper maintaining thereof. Maintain professional growth and
ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LK Wagenaar Tel No: (027) 213-2039
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 13/354 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (NURSING SERVICES)
West Coast Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Citrusdal Hospital, Cederburg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at
SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/
recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Enrolled
Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the South
African Nursing Council as an Enrolled Nurse. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, including night duty, weekends, and public
holidays. Ability to work under supervision of a Professional Nurse. Willingness
to rotate between wards within hospital. Work as part of a multi-disciplinary
team and support managers to ensure quality nursing care. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part
of a multi-disciplinary team and to function effectively within a multidisciplinary
team. Good communication and interpersonal relationships. Basic computer
skills in MS Word and Outlook. Knowledge of relevant nursing legislation,
policies and protocols of the Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care to all patients. Provide
basic clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial
resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L. van Geems-Wolmarans Tel No: (022) 921-2153
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
222
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 13/355 : LAUNDRY SUPERVISOR
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General education and Training Certificate
(GETC) Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in laundry / linen
services in a hospital environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code
B/EB drivers’ licence. Willingness to travel work weekends, public holidays and
overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge of Laundry
and Linen Services Good communication skills (written and verbal). Ability to
work under pressure, perform physically demanding tasks and to handle heavy
objects. Ability to achieve and maintaining good interpersonal relations with
staff and the service provider. Good numerical skills and sewing skills.
Knowledge of and the ability to interpret the Western Cape Linen Management
Policy. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel). Ability to maintain
confidentially. Knowledge and understanding laundry and linen policies and
Hygiene and Safety standards.
DUTIES : Supervise Effective Laundry and Linen Services Ensure effective utilization of
resources i.e. financial assets, consumables and Equipment. Implementation
of infection control and waste management in the laundry and linen unit.
Ensure effective Control and effective management of data/stats in the laundry
and linen unit Ensuring high standards of cleanliness and- proper linen
handling Ensure effective & efficient support to supervisor. Assist the Manager
with Human and Financial Resource Management (Responsible for
subordinates quarterly SPMS/PERMIS reporting, training allocation, leave,
discipline and stock control of the Recon Laundry/Linen). Communicate with
ward staff to provide feedback of any problems and recommendations. Ensure
effective and efficient processing of linen within the Hospital. Effective quality
control of the outsourced laundering and supervision of the internal linen
services. Perform pre-condemning of linen and report irregularities to your
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MJ De koker Tel No: (023) 414 - 8200
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 13/356 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (INTERNAL MEDICINE)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows for registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registered with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience after registration
with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience after registration with the SANC as a
Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
night duty, public holidays, after-hours, and weekend cover for nursing. Must
be prepared to assist in all departments according to operational needs. Ability
to work under pressure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
communicate effectively (verbal and written). Good communication, planning
and interpersonal skills. Ability to work in a multidisciplinary team-context.
Enhance patient care through the implementation of SOP's, policies and
guidelines.
223
DUTIES : Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Assist patients with
activities of daily living (physical care) To provide elementary clinical nursing
care Maintain professional growth/ ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Fourie: Bernice.Fourie@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. “Preference will be given to Grade 1
and/or Grade 2 candidates, should they be found appointable.”
POST 13/357 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 2 (WARD 15 & 16)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, day and night duty, weekends, and public holidays to meet the
operational requirements. Must be prepared to assist in all departments
according to operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Effective communication and Interpersonal skills. Appropriate knowledge and
experience of basic nursing care in a hospital setting.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (Physical care). Provide elementary
clinical nursing care. Maintain efficient records of all health care activities.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B. Wiener Tel No: (021) 503 5000 ext. 5030
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status). Short listed candidates will be
subjected to a written and oral assessment.
POST 13/358 : OPERATOR: TUBE FEED ROOM (DIETETICS: INFANT MILK KITCHEN)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training certificate
(GETC) /Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in a foodservice,
tube feed service or milk kitchen. Inherent requirements of the job: Physically
able to perform physical tasks such as lifting, packing, and pushing heavy
trolleys. Willingness to work overtime on public holiday and weekends.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to read and write. Basic numerical
skills with an ability to adapt feed recipes. Good communication skills (verbal
and written). Basic knowledge of infant feed products. Knowledge of milk
kitchen hygiene practices. Basic knowledge of store keeping and stock
management. Knowledge of pasteurisation of human breast milk.
DUTIES : Production and distribution of infant formula. Processing of human milk
including pasteurisation. Maintain optimal hygiene standards in the milk kitchen
and store area. Basic stock taking and stock control. Perform basic
administrative tasks as required within the department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Du Toit Tel No: (021) 404-4471
224
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 13/359 : OPERATOR (TUBE FEED ROOM)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training certificate
(GETC) /Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in
foodservice/milk kitchen/tube feed room and cleaning procedures. Inherent
requirement of the job: Required to work shifts and overtime. Required to stand
in for colleagues during leave or when ill. The ability to handle heavy equipment
and perform heavy duty functions, e.g. lift heavy boxes or operate heavy
trollies. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good verbal and written
communication skills. Ability to work effectively as part of multi-disciplinary
team. Ability to read a recipe, weigh and mix products. Good numerical skills.
The ability to work under supervision. The ability to function independently as
well as in a team.
DUTIES : Correct weighing, mixing, decanting and labelling of formulae, tube feeds and
special drinks. Delivery of tube feeds and special drinks with a heavy-duty
trolley to the correct wards within time constraints. Daily cleaning of equipment,
tube feed and supplementary drink bottles and all work areas in the unit.
Delivery of nutritional products to various clinics and storage areas in the
hospital. Delivery of tube feed products and agar samples to Department of
Microbiology. Collection of ordered tube feed products from the stores and
pharmacy. Monitor, control and maintain stock levels. FIFO. Perform and
support Supervisor with work related tasks as well as administrative duties.
Maintain a high standard of personal hygiene. Completion of any other work-
related tasks given to the employee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Schubl Tel No: (021) 938-4351
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 13/360 : GENERAL WORKER (ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND HYGIENE
SERVICE)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
general cleaning experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Required to work
shifts, weekends and public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills.
DUTIES : Collection of healthcare risk waste within the hospital and at any other outside
areas at external pick-up points. Effectively operate equipment to perform
cleaning functions within the waste area spaces. Provide effective support to
the General Foreman with regards to the Environmental Health and Hygiene
Services in the hospital. Ensure compliance to waste trolley hygiene and waste
collection policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L White Tel No: (021) 938-4121
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 13/361 : LINEN STORES ASSISTANT (LINEN CONTROL)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic reading, writing and numerical skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in Laundry and linen management. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to do physically hard work. Ability to stand for
long hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): A basic understanding of
maintaining a safe and hygienically clean environment. Good interpersonal
relations with supervisor, colleagues, and the public. Ability to read, speak and
write. Basic knowledge of safe use of laundry machinery and equipment.
Sound knowledge of infection control.
DUTIES : Provide a professional linen and clothing service to the institution. Ensure
effective and efficient stock control. Sort, count and pack Theatre linen/CSSD,
Emergency Bank linen. Unpack the linen bags, count the linen, record all the
225
clean linen and pack out the linen onto the Linen Bank shelves. Handling of
soiled and infectious linen. Follow and maintain hygiene and safety regulation
standards. Provide support to supervisor, wards, and other departments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Hefke Tel No: (021) 685-5034
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/362 : FOOD SERVICES AID
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in an Industrial Food Service Unit, within a hospital
environment. Inherent requirement of the job: The incumbent must be strong
enough to lift heavy objects and be on their feet the entire day. Willingness to
work overtime, shifts (weekends and public holidays). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communicate efficiently (verbal and written).
Knowledge of hygiene, occupational health, HACCP and safety principles. The
ability to prepare meals according to standardized recipes.
DUTIES : Perform all tasks emanating from preparation and serving of food. Maintain
general hygiene and safety standards in the Food Service Unit. Assist in the
receiving, safe storage and stock control of food supplies. Assist with the
informal in-service training of new employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms De koker Tel No: (023) 414 - 8283
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
POST 13/363 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Overberg District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital, Overstrand Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate driving experience including transportation of employees and
delivery of goods. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver’s license code
(B/EB). Good physical health. Must be prepared to work overtime and perform
standby duties on short notice (after hours. weekends and public holidays).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to accept accountability and
responsibility and to work independently and unsupervised. Good
interpersonal and safe driving skills.
DUTIES : Transport of goods, post and Personnel. Maintenance of prescribed logbooks,
trip authorities and administrative duties of driving. Inspection, storage,
maintenance, and safe handling of vehicle. Support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T De Wet Tel No: (028) 312-1166
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test.
POST 13/364 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 3 (ENT AND UROLOGY) (SESSIONAL) (20
HOURS PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 3: R636.per hour
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years’ appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate knowledge & surgical technical skills to manage an inpatient &
outpatient ENT & urology surgical service at a district-level hospital. Good
communication skills. Ability to work in a team and with all levels of staff. Good
organizational skills & ability to perform tasks efficiently with a resource-limited
226
environment. Understanding medico-legal requirements of the position. At
least 10-years experience (Grade 3 MO) working within an ENT & urology
surgical service of a district-/secondary-/tertiary-level hospital.
DUTIES : To deliver safe, cost-effective and high-quality surgical care at all times and
promote comprehensive peri-operative care of patients in the discipline of
general surgery. This would include the following roles: Pre-operative
assessment and resuscitation of surgical patients (ENT & urology) presenting
to the EC and planning appropriate operative management. Involvement in
daily ward rounds, outpatient clinics & elective theatre lists (ENT & urology).
Post-operative inpatient assessment & care, with appropriate investigation &
management of possible complications. -Teaching and training of junior
medical officers, community service medical officers, interns, students and
nurses providing an appropriate level of care and knowledge. Planning &
triaging (supervised) of efficient emergency & elective theatre lists, involving
communication and discussion with anaesthetic & theatre nursing staff.
Completion of medicolegal documents. Participation in research, audits and
quality improvement programs.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J. Plaskett Tel No: (021) 799-1200, email:
Jeremy.Plaskett@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 13/365 : DENTIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SESSIONAL) (DENTAL TRAINING) (20 HOURS
PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Contract until 31 May 2029)
SALARY : Grade 1: R468 per hour
Grade 2: R550 per hour
Grade 3: R636 per hour
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dentist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA
as a Dentist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Dentist with the
HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified employees 1-year relevant experience after
registration as Dentist with a recognized foreign health professional council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as necessary in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 7 years’
appropriate experience as Dentist after registration with the HPCSA as a
Dentist in respect of SA-qualified employees Minimum of 8 years’ relevant
experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized foreign health
professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform community service, as necessary in South Africa. Grade
3: Minimum of 12 years’ appropriate experience as Dentist after registration
with the HPCSA as a Dentist in respect of SA-qualified employees Minimum of
13 years’ relevant experience after registration as Dentist with a recognized
foreign health professional council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform community service, as necessary in South
Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in management of
trauma, pain and sepsis.
DUTIES : Screening of patients on arrival and those referred to the Academic Oral Health
Centre. Record patient details. Liaising with the multidisciplinary team when
required. Assess, diagnose and treat patients in a holistic manner. Treating
patients under general anaesthetic and being familiar with general anaesthetic
protocols. Record keeping. Responsible for compiling stats.
ENQUIRIES : Dr CCA Cloete Tel No: (021) 937-3092
NOTE : “Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the first
time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
227
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
CLOSING DATE : 04 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/366 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (FINANCE): MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL
ACCOUNTING (OUDTSHOORN) REF NO: DOI 37/2026
SALARY : R468 459 – R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Financial
Management; A minimum of 3 years relevant supervisory experience; A valid
Code B (or higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Financial Systems BAS, LOGIS,
IMMS (Costing System), Electronic Purchasing System (EPS) or related
systems; National and Provincial government rules, regulations and legislation
pertaining to management and financial accounting; Management and financial
accounting; Public Service administration and/ or Standard Chart of accounts
and/or government accounting standards (GRAP); Labour relations and Public
Service procedures. Skills in the following: Written and verbal communication;
Proven computer literacy; Report writing and formulations skills; Well-
developed interpersonal skills; Project management; Team and people
orientated; Technical proficiency; Problem-solving and data analysis.
DUTIES : Supervision, performance management and discipline of subordinates;
Coordinate an effective budget administration; Financial accounting function
inclusive of revenue and expenditure control, payment voucher control,
creditors, LOGIS Payments, journal transactions, cash and banking, revenue
and receivables, form control and knowledge; Maintain a sound control
environment with appropriate segregation of duties; Execute a wide variety of
administrative functions related to the line functions in Finance; Perform
leadership functions by advising and guiding subordinates, interpreting and
application of Directives and policy, planning, budgeting and exercising control
and supervision over all activities in the finance Section; Perform quality control
and risk management functions; Ensure compliance with the PFMA, Treasury,
Financial and SCM rules and Instructions; Plan, implement and maintain
financial control and handling of audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A. Matthews Tel No: (044) 272 6071
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/367 : PROGRAMME MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATOR: PROJECT ADMIN
OFFICE REF NO: DOI 40/2026
SALARY : R468 459 – R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant administrative experience.
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the following: Public Service
228
Regulatory Framework; Programme management; Labour relations; Public
Financial Management Act (PFMA); Project management; Public finance,
human resources and operational management prescripts and processes;
Labour Relations legislation and regulations; Performance management in
general; Stakeholder management; Monitoring and evaluation systems. Skills
in the following: Written and Verbal communication; Computer literacy;
Attention to detail; Process-driven; Problem analysis; Technical proficiency and
quick to learn; Problem-solving and decision making; Applying technology;
Communication and information management; Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Oversee the administration of the projects/programmes of the Chief
Directorate; Monitor, evaluate and report on project and programme
performance; Provide technical and user support in respect of the project
information system; People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Campbell Tel No: (021) 483 8868
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/368 : GEO TECHNICAL ASSISTANT: MATERIALS LABORATORY (2 POSTS
AVAILABLE IN OUDTSHOORN) REF NO: DOI 07/2026
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification) with Mathematics/
Mathematical Literacy; Accreditation with SANAS (South African National
Accreditation System) in laboratory tests; A minimum of 1 year experience in
construction or laboratory environment or road building materials; A valid code
B (or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: A good understanding of the following: Laboratory testing /
Sampling / Road Construction materials; Knowledge of laboratory and field
work; Knowledge of road maintenance and road construction; Knowledge of
road related materials; Knowledge of internal audits Operating laboratory
testing equipment including nuclear density apparatus; Operating equipment
(jackhammer, compactors) that relates to sampling; Communication skills
(verbal and written); Planning and organising; Problem solving; People
management.
DUTIES : Performs laboratory field work, verification and validation of equipment;
Handle, prepare and test samples in the laboratory; Responsible for
administrative tasks on Material Testing System (MTS); Assist in the training of
officials , supervision and monitoring.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Malgas Tel No: (044) 272 6071
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/369 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CLEANING AND FOOD AID SUPPORT
SERVICES REF NO: DOI 34/2026
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A valid (code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Record management; Relevant systems; PCS, E-
Works, BAS (Basic Accounting System) and My Content; Contract
management; Procurement procedures; Applicable legislations. Skills in the
following: Proven computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook & PowerPoint);
Written and verbal communication; Record keeping; Ability to work under
pressure; Ability to work independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Assist with project and contract management of cleaning services contracts;
Compiling and processing of claims and payments; Assist with the copying,
filing, and scanning of documentation within the component; Draft and type
submissions, default letters, arrange meetings, agenda's, taking of minutes
and general correspondence; Manage and prepare spreadsheets for statistics
to produce reports on projects; Liaising with service providers, Storeroom
control, distribution and tracking of documents; Coordination of training and
229
liaison with service providers; Data capturing; Arrange dates for site visits and
conduct inspection; Maintenance of filing system opening of files
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Ngamlana-Jara Tel No: (021) 483 5785
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/370 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HR AND GENERAL OFFICE SUPPORT
SERVICES (OUDTSHOORN) REF NO: DOI 36/2026
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A valid (Code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Legislation, Regulations & Public Service rules
regarding human resource related matters; Human Resource in accordance
with National, provincial and Departmental Policies; Working knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service;
Appropriate in-service training courses in HR related matters. Skills in the
following: Problem solving; Proven Computer Literacy (MS Office); Planning
and organising; Interpersonal skills; Good verbal and written communication;
Self-motivated; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Undertake all PERSAL related functions and capturing of data; Provide support
with all human resource support functions which includes application of leave
policy, injuries on duty, collection and distribution of quarterly IPDP's;
Appointments and service terminations maintenance of registers and statistics
selection, recruitment and placement; Undertake filing handling of HR related
queries; Provide secretariat functions; Support the Chief Clerk: HR and
General Office Support other related duties in support of the District Roads
Engineer.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Kennedy Tel No: (044) 272 2992
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 13/371 : STORES CLERK: SCM REGION 2 (OUDTSHOORN) REF NO: DOI 39/2026
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A valid (code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
A good understanding of the following: Supply Chain Management; Inventory
Management, i.e. store procedures and stocktaking procedures; Obtaining
quotations, telephonically or via the Electronic Purchasing System (ePS);
Applicable legislative and regulatory requirements, policies and standards
within government; LOGIS, ePS or related systems and provisioning
procedures. Skills in the following: Verbal and written communication; Good
interpersonal relations with supervisor and colleagues; Organisational ability;
Problem solving abilities; Computer Literacy (MS office environment); Ability to
work under pressure; Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Utilise the Logistical Information System (LOGIS) effectively for the
provisioning functions; Placing and follow-up of orders by communicating with
suppliers and contractors; Payment and administering of various accounts for
goods and services rendered; Performing effective warehouse management
through the receipt, issuing and control of stocks; Rendering of a general office
administration function; Safeguarding and record-keeping of inventory, bin
cards i.e. stock verification, shortages, surpluses; Assist with stocktaking,
inventory control, stores issues and a general administrative (help) function to
users and chief users.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M. Kolose Tel No: (044) 272 6071
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
230
POST 13/372 : CLEANER: CLEANING AND FOOD AID SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO.
DOI 33/2026 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE IN CAPE TOWN)
SALARY : R138 486 - R163 131 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : ABET (below Grade 10). Competencies: General knowledge of the following:
Occupational Health and Safety Act and relevant regulations; Understanding
of how to handle cleaning products safely, including harsh chemicals; Ability to
operate cleaning tools, such as steam cleaners, vacuum cleaners and floor
buffers; Ability to deal with variety of clients with a broad range of needs and
requests; Ability to work under pressure, independently as well as in a team;
Ability to handle routine work and follow instructions; Good verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning duties i.e. sweeping, dusting, emptying bins, moping,
scrubbing and polishing, cleaning windows, deep cleaning of toilets, removal
of refuse; Maintenance and safekeeping of supplies and equipment and cost-
effective use of resource/consumables; Attend Inservice training and render
support to the supervisor with regards to general cleaning duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Jacobs Tel No: (021) 483 8921
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm);
Or 2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974,
Or 3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate
the reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are
in the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed
copies will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within
3 months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful. NB:
Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department.
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 04 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/373 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PLANNING REF NO:
LG 43/2025 R1
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
231
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree at NQF Level 7 (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Town Planning / Development Studies / Public Management or
related field; A minimum of 3 years middle management experience in
Integrated Development Planning / Town Planning / Development studies or
Local Government Planning. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Integrated development planning (IDP) policy, legislation and guiding manuals;
Municipal integrated development planning; People-centered development,
community-based participation processes; Strategic management processes,
including strategic planning and performance management within government
- including inter-sphere and cross-sector planning; Constitutional, institutional
and developmental circumstances of municipalities; Project management and
performance management; Public service procedures and regulations; Human
Resource Management; Labour relations legislation; Skills Development Act;
White Paper on Employment Equity; Financial Management regulations. Skills
in the following: Ability to analyse, promote, facilitate and implement strategic
planning; Presentation skills; Implementation and monitoring skills; Project
management skills; Interpretation of legislation; Effective communication
(verbal & written); Dispute resolution, facilitation in groups (within the
community) and conflict management; Problem solving; Basic Accounting;
Basic budgeting skills; Computer skills in report writing.
DUTIES : Ensure integrated development planning support to municipalities with the
drafting and review of integrated development plans; Assessment of the quality
of municipal integrated development plans; Provide support regarding national
and provincial planning alignment with municipal integrated development
plans; Integrated development planning (IDP) training and capacity building to
municipalities and related stakeholders; Monitor and report on municipal
Integrated development planning (IDP) review progress and implementation;
Plan and manage the work of and account for the overall performance of the
Sub directorate; People Management; Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P.C Jansen van Vuren Tel No: (021) 483 9077
POST 13/374 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PLANNING REF
NO: LG 42/2025 R1
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Town Planning or Development studies or Public Management;
A minimum of 3 years relevant experience in Integrated Development Planning
/ Town Planning / Development studies or Local Government Planning.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Integrated development planning
(IDP) legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and good practices; Municipal
integrated development planning (IDP), people-centered development,
community-based participation processes; Strategic management processes
including strategic planning and performance management within government
including inter-sphere and cross sector planning; Constitutional, institutional
and developmental circumstances of municipalities; Project management and
performance management; Public service procedures and regulations;
Information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and information
pertaining to the line function; Operational management practices;
Procurement and tendering processes. Skills in the following: Ability to analyse,
promote, facilitate and implement strategic planning; Presentation skills;
Implementation and monitoring skills; Project management skills; Interpretation
of legislation; Effective communication (verbal and written); Dispute resolution,
facilitation in groups (within community) and conflict management; Problem
solving; Basic accounting; Basic budgeting skills; Computer skills in report
writing.
DUTIES : Provide integrated development planning (IDP) support to municipalities with
the drafting and review of integrated development plans; Coordinate municipal
integrated development planning (IDP) support across municipalities including
sector planning support initiatives; Monitor the process and credibility of
municipal integrated development planning; Research and develop integrated
development planning good practices; Promote the institutionalisation of
integrated development planning sector departments; Maintain an integrated
development planning (IDP) document database that is accessible to all three
spheres of government.
232
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ivan Meyer Tel No: (021) 483 5528
POST 13/375 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: LG 07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or relevant higher tertiary qualification; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
rendering a support service to management/ senior management.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Relevant legislation / policies /
prescripts and procedures; Basic knowledge of financial administration. Skills
in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint); Communication skills (written and verbal); Interpersonal and
decision-making skills; Customer service orientation; Organising and planning;
Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Manager; Renders
administrative support services; Provide support to the Manager regarding
meetings; Support the Manager with the administration of the manager's
budget; Studies the relevant Public Service and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the application thereof
is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Nozuko Zamxaka Tel No: (021) 483 4449
DEPARTMENT OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 04 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/376 : STATE LAW ADVISOR: LEGAL GOVERNANCE REF NO: DOTP 26/2026
SALARY : LP 7: R932 904 per annum; (all-inclusive salary package), (OSD as
prescribed).
LP 8: R1 094 901 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (OSD as
prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : LLB-Degree with admission as an Advocate or Attorney; LP 7: A minimum of 5
years' appropriate practical post qualification legal experience; LP 8: A
minimum of 9 years' appropriate practical post qualification legal experience; A
valid driving license (Code B or higher). Note: People with disabilities that
restrict driving abilities but have reasonable access to transport may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector;
Constitutional Law, PAJA, PAIA, POPIA, Interpretation of Statues;
Procurement and tendering processes; Relevant legislation, case law litigation
trends as well as thorough understanding of the regulatory framework, policies
and best practices that influence line functions. Skills in the following:
233
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc); Ability
to work independently and as part of a team; Exceptional communication skills
(written and verbal); Presentation and facilitation skills; Project Management.
DUTIES : Render legal training to departments, public entities and municipalities; Render
legal research and advisory services on governance matters, including
proactive counsel to the executive and departments; Render legal governance
assessments and reporting services to provincial departments and entities;
Render transversal legal governance service in respect of the Promotion of
Access to Information Act (PAIA), Promotion of Administrative Justice Act
(PAJA), Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) and other
constitutional legislation; Review and maintain delegations for members of the
executive and departments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S van Aarde Tel No: (021) 483 8433
POST 13/377 : TECHNOLOGY MANAGER: DIRECTORY SECURITY AND
COLLABORATION SERVICES REF NO: DOTP 23/2026
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ experience on a middle management
level. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Expert-level competency
across the Microsoft Office Suite, with advanced mastery of Microsoft Azure
(AZ) and particularly strong, expert-level skills in Microsoft Excel; Working
experience with the legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best
practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Understanding of
information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and information
pertaining to the line function; Understanding of project management;
Operational management practices; Mentoring and coaching practices;
National and provincial instruments and legislation pertaining to human
resources management, financial management and supply chain
management; Policies of the government of the day (national and provincial);
Provincial government functions and services; Statutory framework governing
the broad management of the public service; Staff performance management
system; Disciplinary and grievance procedure. Skills needed: Numeracy;
Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project
Management; Accounting Finance and Audit; Analysing; Leading and
Supervising; Persuading and Influencing; Deciding and Initiating Action;
Working with People; Delivering Results and Meeting Customer Expectations;
Relating and Networking; Presenting and Communicating Information;
Adhering to Principles and Values; Writing and Reporting; Following
Instructions and Procedures.
DUTIES : Manage a team that is necessary to perform and deliver services relating to
business and technology planning, development, implementation and
maintenance; Render infrastructure and architectural services; Plan and
manage the work of and account for the overall performance of the
Subdirectorate; People Management; Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Ruiters Tel No: (021) 850 4760
POST 13/378 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: DOTP 29/2026
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) majoring in
Accounting and/or Auditing; Registration as a Certified Internal Auditor plus 3
year internal audit supervisory/management experience (ASD); or
(Certification in Control Self-Assessment (CCSA), Certified Government
Auditing Professional (CGAP). Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Audit practices: Strategic Planning and Management; Audit practices:
Engagement Planning and Execution; Audit practices: Reporting and Progress
Monitoring; International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal
Audit; Governance Principles; Risk Management Principles; Internal Control
Systems. Skills needed: Analytical thinking; Project management; Information
gathering; Client focus; Ability to work independently and as part of a team;
Communication skills (written and verbal); Continuous learning; Developing
others; Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint).
234
DUTIES : Develop an Internal audit plan for the department, consulted with appropriate
client management and approved by the Audit Committee; Issue 100% of
internal audit reports in accordance with the approved IA plans, per quarter;
Conduct planning and project management on internal audit engagements;
Conduct execution and reporting on internal audit engagements; Implement
systems to ensure objectives are achieved, quality is assured, and staff are
developed; Clear, concise, factual, and informative reporting quarterly to the
Audit Committee and to client executive management on a monthly basis;
Consistently comply with the relevant service standards measures in the
Department’s service schedules for Internal Audit.
ENQUIRIES : Morne Williams Tel No: (021) 483 3724 or via email
morne.williams@westerncape.gov.za
POST 13/379 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DEPARTMENTAL WORK ORGANISATION
CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DOTP 13/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Social Sciences / Humanities / Industrial Engineering /
Industrial Psychology / Public and Business Management Science or related;
A minimum of 3 years relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Organisational performance as they relate to the field of organisation
development; Appropriate job evaluation system; Organisation development
theory, practice, and techniques regarding organisation design, process
development and improvement and behaviour; Appreciative inquiry; Research
methods / statistics (action research, quantitative and qualitative); Project
management; Mentoring and coaching practices; National and provincial
instruments and legislation pertaining to human resources management,
financial management and supply chain management; Policies of the
government of the day (national and provincial); Provincial government
functions and services; Statutory framework governing the broad management
of the public service; Staff performance management system (SPMS);
Disciplinary and grievance procedure; Legislation, regulatory frameworks,
policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line functions;
Information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and information
pertaining to the line function; Project management; Operational management
practices; Functioning of the Province and the activities of sister
departments/related functional areas. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy;
Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project Management;
Accounting finance and audit; Research; Benchmarking; Conceptual,
interpretive and formulation; Diagnostic and intervention design; Facilitation
and process consultation; Innovative problem-solving; Interviewing and
listening; Motivation and negotiation; Mentoring and coaching; Team building
and strong inter-personal; Data analysis and interpretation; ICT systems
awareness.
DUTIES : Deliver departmental work organisation capacity services; Deliver transversal
job design services; Deliver on transversal organisation design and alignment;
Deliver on transversal service delivery initiatives; Deliver a practice enablement
and development service; Managerial Functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Raybin at fagmieda.raybin@westerncape.gov.za
POST 13/380 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: DOTP 14/2026 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) majoring in Accounting
and Auditing; Completion of the General Internal Auditing (including IAT
learnership – (three years)) learnership from the IIA plus 2 year internal audit
experience. Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the following:
International Standards and Professional Practice of Internal Auditing
(Standards); The flow of the audit process and its link to strategic planning;
Monitoring processes in place to deliver qualitative results on the plan. Skills
needed: Information Gathering; Client Focus; Analytical Thinking;
Communication (written and verbal); Computer literacy. Ability to work
independently and as part of a team.
235
DUTIES : Perform engagement planning to acquire an understanding of the audit area
and to determine the audit focus; Document comprehensive and accurate
systems description using relevant tools to gain a better understanding of the
process and perform walk-through to confirm the process is implemented as
documented; Develop adequately motivated engagement objectives, based on
the correct analysis of the control objectives, cognisant of the risk
demonstrating a comprehensive understanding of how risks ought to be
mitigated; Compile an Audit Planning Memorandum extracting information from
the relevant steps of the engagement planning phase; Capture the risks,
engagement objectives and key controls ensuring logical flow of the
Engagement Work Programme (EWP) and assist with the control adequacy
assessment / evaluation; Execute all audit procedures as per the engagement
program ensuring that audit working papers are complete and accurate
accompanied by useful, relevant, sufficient, and reliable evidence delivered
and coaching noted are signed off; Draft audit findings ensuring the elements
of audit findings are appropriately aligned and distribute draft report to
management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Malan Tel No: (021) 483 9962
POST 13/381 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSVERSAL WORK ORGANISATION
CAPACITY ENABLEMENT REF NO: DOTP 15/2026 (VARIOUS POSTS
AVAILABLE)
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Social Sciences, Humanities, Industrial Psychology, Public and
Business Management Science or related; A minimum of 3 years relevant
experience; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence; NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Organisational performance as they relate to the field of organisation
development; Appropriate job evaluation system; Organisation development
theory, practice, and techniques regarding organisation design, process
development and improvement and behaviour; Appreciative inquiry; Research
methods/statistics (action research, quantitative and qualitative); Project
management; Mentoring and coaching practices; National and provincial
instruments and legislation pertaining to human resources management,
financial management and supply chain management; Policies of the
government of the day (national and provincial); Provincial government
functions and services; Statutory framework governing the broad management
of the public service; Staff performance management system (SPMS);
Disciplinary and grievance procedure; Working experience with the legislation,
regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the
line functions; Understanding of information systems that aid in the
management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line function;
Operational management practices; Understanding of the functioning of the
Province and the activities of sister departments/related functional areas. Skills
needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal
communication; Project Management; Accounting Finance and Audit;
Analytical; Data analysis and interpretation; ICT Systems Awareness;
Benchmarking; Conceptual, interpretive and formulation; Diagnostic;
Facilitation and process consultation; Innovative problem-solving skills;
Interviewing and listening skills; Motivation and negotiation skills; Mentoring
and coaching skills; Team building and strong inter-personal skills; Data
analysis and interpretation; ICT systems awareness.
DUTIES : Deliver departmental work organisation capacity services. (Diagnosing
organisational challenges and supporting improvement through organisation
design, job design, process improvement and change interventions); Deliver
transversal job design services. (Designing and evaluation jobs, applying the
prescribed job evaluation system, and ensuring consistent job grading
practices across government); Managerial Functions (Planning and managing
work, supervising staff, monitoring performance and managing resources in
line with governance requirements); Deliver on transversal organisation design
and alignment (Designing and aligning organisational structures, mandates
and operating models to support strategic priorities and effective service
delivery); Deliver on transversal service delivery initiatives (Supporting and
236
coordinating service delivery improvement initiatives, assessments, and
reporting linked to provincial and national frameworks); Deliver a practice
enablement and development service (Developing and enabling organisation
development practice through OD policies, frameworks, methodologies, tools,
systems and capability building).
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Smith Tel No: (021) 466 9542
POST 13/382 : CHIEF NETWORK TECHNOLOGIST (PAARL) REF NO: DOTP 21/2026
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Information Technology; A Minimum of 3 years’ experience in
information technology; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Working experience with the
legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a
bearing on the line functions; Understanding of information systems that aid in
the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line function;
Understanding of project management; Operational management practices;
Mentoring and coaching practices; National and provincial instruments and
legislation pertaining to human resources management, financial management
and supply chain management; Policies of the government of the day (national
and provincial); Provincial government functions and services; Statutory
framework governing the broad management of the public service; Staff
performance management system; Disciplinary and grievance procedure.
Skills needed: Data Analytics; Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written
and verbal communication skills; Performance Management; Reporting;
Information and Data Technology; Formal Training; Economic, financial
analysis; Strategic and performance planning.
DUTIES : Develop network infrastructure and end-user computing, architectures and
security; Maintain network infrastructure and end-user computing,
architectures and security; Liaise with relevant stakeholders and clients;
Financial, people and project management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B De Wee Tel No: (021) 348 4600
POST 13/383 : CHIEF NETWORK TECHNOLOGIST: DIRECTORY SECURITY AND
COLLABORATION SERVICES REF NO: DOTP 22/2026
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Information Technology; A Minimum of 3 years experience in
information technology; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Working experience with the legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and
best practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Understanding of
information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and information
pertaining to the line function; Understanding of project management;
Operational management practices; Mentoring and coaching practices;
National and provincial instruments and legislation pertaining to human
resources management, financial management and supply chain
management; Policies of the government of the day (national and provincial);
Provincial government functions and services; Statutory framework governing
the broad management of the public service; Staff performance management
system; Disciplinary and grievance procedure. Skills needed: Data Analytics;
Numeracy; Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication
skills; Performance Management; Reporting; Information and Data
Technology; Formal Training; Economic, financial analysis; Strategic and
performance planning.
DUTIES : Develop network infrastructure and end-user computing, architectures and
security; Maintain network infrastructure and end-user computing,
architectures and security; Liaise with relevant stakeholders and clients;
Financial, people and project management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. C.De Wet Tel No: (021) 938 3195
237
POST 13/384 : ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER: DEPARTMENTAL
WORK ORGANISATION CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DOTP
16/2026
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year relevant experience. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Organisational performance as they relate to the
field of organisation development; Organisation development theory, practice,
and techniques regarding organisation design, process development and
improvement and behaviour; Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and
best practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Information systems
that aid in the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line
function; Project management; Operational management practices;
Procurement and tendering processes; Policy development, and operational
management, monitoring and review processes; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and
systems; Regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on
the provincial government of the Western Cape; Constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public
finance, human resources and discourse management processes; Public
Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other
financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Functioning
of the Province and the activities of sister departments/related functional areas;
Policies of the government of the day; Labour Relations legislation and
regulations; Performance management in general. Skills needed: Numeracy;
Literacy; Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project
Management; Analytical skills; Benchmarking skills; Conceptual, interpretive
and formulation skills; Diagnostic and intervention design skills; Facilitation and
presentation skills; Influencing, negotiation and motivation skills; Innovative
problem-solving skills; Interviewing and listening skills; Mentoring and
coaching skills.
DUTIES : Provide and support departmental work organisation capacity improvements;
Provide a job design service; Provide transversal organisation design and
alignment services; Provide and facilitate transversal service delivery and
Batho Pele initiatives; Provide input and support with practice enablement and
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Assure at Theresa.Assure@westerncape.gov.za
POST 13/385 : ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER: TRANSVERSAL
WORK ORGANISATION CAPACITY ENABLEMENT REF NO: DOTP
33/2026 (VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year relevant experience. Competencies:
Knowledge and understanding of the following: Organisational performance as
they relate to the field of organisation development; Organisation development
theory, practice and techniques regarding organisation design, process
development and improvement and behaviour; Understanding of information
systems that aid in the management of knowledge and information pertaining
to the line function; Understanding of project management; Working
experience with the legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best
practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Operational management
practices; Understanding of procurement and tendering processes; Policy
development, and operational management, monitoring and review processes;
Modern systems of governance and administration; Public service procedures,
processes and systems; Regional and local political, economic and social
affairs impacting on the provincial government of the Western Cape;
Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing the South
African public sector; Public finance, human resources and discourse
management processes; Public Finance Management Act, National and
Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts, directives
and collective agreements; Functioning of the province and the activities of
sister departments/related functional areas; Policies of the government of the
238
day; Labour Relations legislation and regulations; Performance management
in general. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy; Computer literacy in MS Office
Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc); Written and verbal communication
skills; Project Management; Analytical skills; Benchmarking skills; Conceptual,
interpretive and formulation skills; Diagnostic and intervention design skills;
Facilitation and presentation skills; Influencing, negotiation and motivation
skills; Innovative problem-solving skills; Interviewing and listening skills;
Mentoring and coaching skills.
DUTIES : Provide and support departmental work organisation capacity improvements
(Supporting organisational diagnostics and implementing organisation design,
business process improvement and OD interventions); Provide a job design
service (Supporting job design and job evaluation processes, including
developing competency-based job descriptions and assisting with job
evaluation activities); Provide transversal organisation design and alignment
services (Supporting organisation design work and alignment of structures,
mandates and processes across departments); Provide and facilitate
transversal service delivery and Batho Pele initiatives (Supporting the
implementation of service delivery improvement initiatives, including Batho
Pele-related activities and reporting); Provide input and support with practice
enablement and development (Contributing to the development, maintenance
and application of OD tools, methodologies, systems and information
management).
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Opperman at Brian.Opperman@westerncape.gov.za
POST 13/386 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: DOTP 27/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 (a certificate of completion should be provided); A minimum of 3 years’
experience in rendering secretarial/ administrative support services to
management/ senior management. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: General Support; Financial Support; Record keeping; Relevant
policies and procedures. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office
Package Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Communication skills (written and verbal);
Good interpersonal and decision-making skills; Planning and Organising;
Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the manager; Render an
administrative support service; Provide support to the senior manager
regarding meetings; Support the senior manager with the administration of the
budget; Analyse the relevant public service and departmental prescripts/
policies and other documents and ensure that the application thereof is
understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Jacobs Tel No: (021) 483 869
POST 13/387 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK: RECORDS MANAGEMENT AND REGISTRY
SERVICES REF NO: DOTP 31/2026
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 3 years
relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Filing
systems, records classification, records disposal programmes and archiving
procedures including electronic scanning and archiving of documents; Storage
and retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment; National
Archives and Record Management Act, Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), and the Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS). Skills
needed: Computer literacy in MS Office Package; Communication skills
(written and verbal); Planning and organisation; Report Writing; Ability to work
independently and as part of a team; Supervisory and Leadership Skills;
Records Management Expertise; Communication and Interpersonal Skills;
Administrative accuracy.
DUTIES : Supervise and provide Records Management and Registry Services;
Coordinate the implementation of all Records Management policies and
Registry Procedures; Supervise the Messenger Services; Coordinate the
239
implementation of systematic disposal programmes; Manage and maintain all
registers; Supervise and support staff performances and development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Beukes Tel No: (021) 483 9663
POST 13/388 : ASSESSMENT CENTRE COORDINATOR: TRANSVERSAL PEOPLE
CAPACITY ENABLEMENT REF NO: DOTP 39/2026
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (equivalent or higher qualification); A minimum of 6 years appropriate
experience in a Human Resource/OD or assessment related environment; A
valid code B or higher driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Broad range of test batteries and
psychological assessments; Health Professions Act, 1974; Competency
Assessment Policy; Office administration and management; Basic Accounting
System; LOGIS Procurement System; Contract management; Registry and
archives legislation Skills needed: Analytical thinking; Attention to detail
(accuracy); Computer literacy and proficiency in using software such as MS
Office Package (Word, Excel, Power-point, Outlook); Coordination and
prioritising; Good written and verbal communication; Interpersonal and
relationship-building; Problem solving; Submission writing; Time Management;
Leading and Supervising; Delivering Results and Meeting Customer
Expectations; Following Instructions and Procedures; Adhering to Principles
and Values; Writing and Reporting; Working with People; Deciding and
Initiating Action; Achieving Personal Goals and Objectives.
DUTIES : Provide general administrative and operational support to the PAC; Scheduling
and stakeholder coordination for client related engagements or project related
sessions; Correspondence and document management (non-assessment
specific): Handle all incoming and outgoing correspondence; PAC
administrative processes and workflow support: Contribute to the
development, enhancement and implementation of PAC administrative
processes (e.g. booking flows, candidate confirmations, equipment checklists);
Guide and support users in adhering to updated administrative processes;
Arrange travel logistics as needed (GG vehicles, accommodation, flights,
advances, etc.); Coordinate end-to-end competency assessment logistics;
End-to-end assessment logistics to support assessment related sessions and
engagements; PAC team availability and resource alignment; Manage PAC
information systems, databases and records; Provide inputs into the
development and enhancement of PAC information systems, databases and
digital record structures; Conduct routine quality assurance checks on captured
information to ensure data accuracy, completeness and integrity; Collate and
analyse basic statistics for internal and external reporting requirements (e.g.
Monthly dashboards, operational summaries); Sensitise relevant stakeholders
to reporting due dates and data-submission (e.g. monthly dashboards,
quarterly updates); Provide financial and SCM administration for PAC;
Procurement and Sourcing Support the procurement of PAC tools, materials
and assessment-related services in accordance with SCM prescripts; Financial
Administration and Payments; Contract and Supplier Administration; Stock,
Asset, and Resource Control Supervise PAC administrative staff and workflow;
Participate in the recruitment and selection of employees; Motivate train and
guide employees; Manage the performance, evaluation and rewarding of
employees; Monitor information capacity building; Promote sound labour
relations; Maintain discipline; Give direction to and manage policy issues with
regard to the functions of the component under his / her command; Allocate
duties to employees, monitoring outcomes and instituting the necessary
corrective measures to address deviations from standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Roux Tel No: (021) 466 9713
POST 13/389 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK: TALENT SOURCING REF NO: DOTP 19/2026
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge of the e-recruitment system and the Human Resource/Recruitment
environment; Proven computer literacy in MS Word and Excel; Good planning
240
and organising skills; Communication (written and verbal) skills; Interpersonal
skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Liaise with relevant stakeholders; General HR administration; Database
Management; Capture and update expenditure in component; Recruitment and
Selection Policies and Procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Faku Tel No: (021) 483 6369
POST 13/390 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK: SERVICE CONDITIONS REF NO: DOTP
28/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies: Good
understanding of the following: Legislative framework that governs Human
Resource; Service Conditions; Ability to work well under pressure with strict
confidentiality requirements; Meet deadlines; Skills in the following: Computer
literacy in MS Office Package; Ability to work independently and as part of a
team; Communication skills (written and verbal); Human resource
management experience; PERSAL Introduction certificate.
DUTIES : Administer various service conditions and service benefits (i.e Pension
administration allowance payments, Injury on duty, long service recognition,
Housing allowance and salary administration); Responsible for updating of
databases; Liaison with call centre and Customer Relations Unit (CRU)
managers and other departments; Drafting of formal correspondence and
letters, (i.e. memorandums, e-mails).
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Makies Tel No: (021) 483 8704
POST 13/391 : HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT CLERK: SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
FACILITATION REF NO: DOTP 40/2026
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies: Good
understanding of the following: National and provincial legislation and
instruments pertaining to human resource management, with reference to the
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act etc;
National and provincial skills development facilitation legislation, policies,
strategies and prescripts, e.g. Skills Development Act, Skills Development
Levies Act, Sectoral Skills Plans (relevant to PSETA), Human Resource
Development Strategy etc; HRD Compliance reporting frameworks. Skills
needed: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint);
Ability to work independently and as part of a team; Communication skills
(written and verbal); Analytical Skills; Ability to analyse and conceptualise;
Monitoring and reporting; Problem solving; Innovation; Project management
skills.
DUTIES : Render administrative support to the Sub-directorate: Skills Development
Facilitation e.g. filing, keeping of records, including electronic records (e.g.
MyContent), compilation of letters and emails and distribution of circulars,
minutes and other documents and perform general administrative duties;
Gather relevant statistics on learning and development and maintain
databases on learning and development interventions, service providers, etc.,
capture data on systems and analyse data; Provide support at meetings –
logistical arrangements, compile agenda and minutes; Liaise with role-players
in the human resource development field; Asist with training needs
identification and analysis processes, training impact assessment processes
and HRD compliance reporting processes; Provide inputs to and evidence for
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Hlanganiso Tel No: (021) 483 0912
DEPARTMENT OF PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 04 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
241
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 13/392 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PROVISIONING AND ASSET MANAGEMENT
REF NO: PT 08/2026
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification). Competencies: Basic
knowledge of the following: Supply chain duties, practices as well as the ability
to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics; Understanding of
the legislative framework governing the Public Service; Work procedures in
terms of the working environment; Clerical duties, practices as well as the
ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics; Legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Skills needed: Written and verbal
communication; Interpersonal relations; Flexibility; Teamwork; Planning and
Organising; Computer Literacy; Working with People; Following Instructions
and Procedures; Writing and Reporting; Delivering Results and Meeting
Customer Expectations; Learning and Researching; Relating and Networking;
Presenting and Communicating Information.
DUTIES : Support the delivery of fleet and auxiliary services through administrative
functions; Assist in Logistical Management Processes (Ordering, Delivery &
Payments); Provide Support in Asset Management; Maintain records and
information management in the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Rhapale Tel No: (021) 483 5841
WESTERN CAPE MOBILITY DEPARTMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 04 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
242
OTHER POST
POST 13/393 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: WCMD
05/2026
SALARY : R468 459 - R561 894 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in Financial
Management; A minimum of 3 years experience in management accounting at
supervisory/management level. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a
bearing on the line functions; Enforcement of revenue and expenditure control;
Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the financial supporting
information; Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the management
accounting reporting processes; Operational management practices; public
service procedures, processes and systems; Public finance, human resources
and discourse management processes; Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), 1999, National Treasury Regulations, Provincial Treasury
Instructions, other financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective
agreements; Project Management. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy;
Computer Literacy; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit;
Verbal and Written Communication; Planning; Organising; Basic Research;
Monitoring; Report-writing; Leadership; Problem-solving; Conceptual,
Interpretative and Formulation; Analytical; Networking; Economic, Financial
and Statistical Analysis; Conflict Management; Ability to work under pressure;
Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines.
DUTIES : Monitoring Revenue and Expenditure - Monitor, review, analyse and quality
assure revenue and expenditure; Maintaining Revenue and Expenditure
control – Analyse, maintain and quality assure revenue and expenditure
control; Reporting – Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the
management accounting; Reporting processes; Managerial functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Jones at Tel No: (021) 483 3752.
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 04 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 13/394 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: YOUTH DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: DSD 16/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R970 686 – R1 109 877 per annum, (OSD prescribed)
Grade 2: R1 154 706 – R1 360 185 per annum, (OSD prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience in Community
Development work after obtaining the required tertiary qualification.
243
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Economics; Enterprise
development; Research applications in economics; Financial management;
Stakeholder management; Management principles; Project management;
Public service procedure; Applicable policies and procedures; Relationship
management. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office package
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Analytical skills; Policy analysis; Financial
management; Problem solving; Planning and organising; Influencing;
Presentation; Conflict management; Communication (written and verbal);
Relationship management; Networking and linking; People management;
Motivational skills.
DUTIES : To manage the identification, facilitation and implementation of integrated
development interventions in partnership with the community and other
relevant stakeholders through the efficient, effective and economical utilisation
of resources by the unit/sub directorate; Monitor, interpret and review
legislation and policies to determine whether the legislation and policies are
still relevant and comply with current requirements. Develop proposals to
amend/maintain the relevant acts and policies and develop new policies where
required; Manage a community development unit/sub-directorate to ensure
that an efficient and effective community development service is delivered
through the proper utilization of human, financial and physical resources; Keep
up to date with new developments in the community development and
management fields to enhance service delivery; Plan and ensure that research
on community development is undertaken. Undertake/facilitate complex
community development research.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Hewu Tel No: (021) 483 3054
POST 13/395 : CENTRE MANAGER: FACILITY MANAGEMENT (KRAAIFONTEIN ROAR
AND TREATMENT CENTRE) REF NO: DSD 15/2026
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B- Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years middle management level experience in a
secure or substance treatment residential care or related environment; A valid
(Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Analytic, diagnostic, assessment
tools, evaluation methods and processes (Social Worker); Personnel
Management; Supervision Framework for Social Workers; Social Work
legislation related to children; Social work theory and interventions; Information
and Knowledge Management; Protocol and professional ethics. Skills needed:
Organising and planning; Project planning; Psychosocial intervention;
Communication and language; People management practices; Conflict
management; Interpersonal; Report-writing; Computer literacy; Presentation
and facilitation; Problem solving and analytical; Client orientation and customer
focus.
DUTIES : Effective service delivery in terms of National, Provincial frameworks and
international accords / models of residential care standard operating
procedures; Ensure effective, efficient and economic use of appropriate funds
and physical resources; Effective people management; Operational
management of the facility.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Goosen Tel No: (021) 202 9251
POST 13/396 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT POLICY DEVELOPER: YOUTH
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DSD 14/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R388 110 – R436 110 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R453 201– R514 470 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R535 095 – R725 754 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); Grade 1: A minimum of 8 years recognisable experience in
Community Development after obtaining the required qualification; Grade 2: A
minimum of 18 years recognisable experience in Community Development
after obtaining the required qualification; Grade 3: A minimum of 28 years
recognisable experience in Community Development after obtaining the
required qualification. Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the
244
following: Policy Analysis and development; Community development;
Legislation of local government; Integrated Development Planning; Legislation,
policies and procedures governing Non-Profit Organisations (NPO)
Management of, as well as types of programmes relevant to NPOs; Skills
needed: Mentoring and training; Facilitation; Project Management ; Planning
and organising; Networking; Communication (written and verbal); Professional
counselling; Financial management; Presentation; Monitoring and evaluation;
Inter-sectoral collaboration and partnership; Intergovernmental relations;
Ability to compile complex reports; Contract Management.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and maintain community development policies; Monitor,
interpret and review legislation, policies and procedures to determine whether
the legislation, policies and procedures are still relevant and comply with
current requirements; Develop proposals to amend/maintain the relevant acts,
policies and procedures and develop new policies/procedures where required.
This includes costing the policies; Develop, implement and monitor youth
development programmes; Manage youth development projects; Keep up to
date with new developments in the community development field. This would,
inter alia, entail the following: Study relevant journals and publications to
ensure that cognisance is taken of new developments; Monitor and study the
social services legal and policy framework continuously; Liaise/attend
meetings with other departments, non-government institutions and relevant
stakeholders to take cognisance of the latest developments in the relevant
fields; Engage in continuous development activities; Research and
development related to youth development programmes: Perform the
administrative functions required in the unit; Stakeholder engagements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Arnolds Tel No: (021) 483 6657
POST 13/397 : STAFF NURSE: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES REF NO: DSD 18/2026
(VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE AT SIVUYILE RESIDENTIAL)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 - R250 500 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R262 287 - R298 932 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R306 798 - R382 107 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse;
Registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Grade 2: Qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse; Registration with the SANC
as Enrolled Nurse; A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse.
Grade 3: Qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse;
Registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse; A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Nursing
care processes and procedures, nursing statutes; Nursing Act; Health Act;
Occupational Health and Safety Act; Patient Rights Charter; Batho-Pele
principles; Public Service Regulations; Labour Relations Act; Disciplinary code
and procedure; Grievance procedure act; Written and verbal communication
skills; Elementary facilitation skills; Responsiveness.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans: Ensure
maintenance of patient hygiene; Sustain nutritional status of patients; Facilitate
the mobility of patients; Facilitate the elimination processes; Provide basic
clinical nursing care: Measure, interpret and record vital signs; Operate all
relevant apparatus and equipment; Assist professional nurses with clinical
procedures (i.e. administering of intramuscular injections); Preparation of
patients for diagnostic and surgical procedures; Effective utilisation of
resources: Order stock and equipment in a cost-effective manner; Report loss
or damage immediately; Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development: To maintain the code of conduct as required in the Public
Service and by the Professional Body; Seek learning opportunities, i.e. in-
service training, courses.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Siebritz Tel No: (021) 482 1902
POST 13/398 : CHILD AND YOUTH CARE WORKER: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES REF
NO: DSD 17/2026 (POSTS AVAILABLE AT VARIOUS FACILITIES)
SALARY : Grade 1: R184 320 – R206 802 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R215 181 – R243 750 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
245
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 qualification (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification)
Experience: Grade 1: No experience; Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years
appropriate experience in Child and Youth Care Work after having obtained the
required qualification; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People
with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access
to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Developmental programmes; Clerical/Administrative procedures; Rules and
procedures of care centres / facilities; Professional norms and standards;
Professional ethics; Ability to intervene and resolve conflict; Work effectively
with social workers and members of multi-sectoral teams in social service
delivery; Communication and language; Ability to work with children in conflict
with the law; Report – writing; Computer literacy; Presentation and facilitation;
Problem solving; Client orientation and customer focus; Planning and
organising.
DUTIES : Receive children and youth to the care facility after admission; This would
include the following actions: Engagement; Assessment / Plan of Action;
Implementation of Developmental and Recreational Programs; Monitor and
evaluation of developmental and recreational programs; Referral of
professional services (e.g. appointment register, observation book, occurrence
book); Enhance participation of the learners at the Facility in sport, recreation,
arts and culture programmes and services; Continuous Professional
Development; Perform administrative work and clerical functions as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Baugaard Tel No: (021) 826 5972
WESTERN CAPE EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (WCED)
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted by using the following URL
https://www.westerncape.gov.za/education via Google Chrome or Mozilla
Firefox. The applicants are advised to read the foreword available on the
WCED website before applying for the post/s.
CLOSING DATE : 15 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be made via the department’s on-line E-Recruitment system.
The on-line system will automatically generate a Curriculum Vitae; applicants
are therefore required to ensure that their profiles are fully completed. Certified
copies of Identity Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required
qualification as well as a driver’s license where necessary, will only be
submitted by shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview
date. All applicants must be SA Citizens/Permanent Residents or Non-SA
Citizens with a valid work permit. Applicants will be expected to be available
for selection interviews and competency assessments at a time, date and place
as determined by Western Cape Education Department (WCED). The
Department reserves the right to conduct pre-employment security screening
and appointment is subject to positive security clearance outcome. Applicants
must declare any/pending criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or
investigations against them. Should this be uncovered post the interview the
application will not be considered for the post and in the unlikely event that the
person has been appointed such appointment will be terminated. If you have
not been contacted within 3 months of the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 13/399 : DIRECTOR: POLICY COORDINATION REF NO: 171
Directorate: Policy Co ordination
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13). An all-inclusive salary package consists of
a basic salary, and the employer’s contribution to the Pension Fund. The
remainder of the package may be structured according to your personal needs.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in policy
analysis and research methodology. At least 5 years’ experience at a
middle/senior managerial level within a policy development environment.
246
Successful completion of the Certificate for entry into the Senior Management
Service (SMS). Valid driver’s license. Successful completion of the Certificate
for entry into the Senior Management Service (SMS). Knowledge of: Advanced
knowledge of public policy analysis and public policy development processes
advanced knowledge of strategy development, strategy management and
strategy monitoring and review processes advanced knowledge of modern
systems of governance and administration advanced knowledge of public
finance, people management advanced knowledge of public communication,
public education, public participation and public discourse management
processes knowledge of public management theory and practice knowledge of
global, regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on the
provincial government of the Western Cape knowledge of Constitutional, legal
and institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector. Skills:
Strong conceptual and formulation skills strong leadership skills in complex
situations team building and strong interpersonal skills excellent verbal and
written communication skills outstanding planning, organising and people
management skills computer literacy. Personal attributes: A highly developed
interpretative and conceptualisation/ formulation ability the ability to render
advice and guidance in an objective and dedicated manner the ability to multi-
task, deal with ambiguity and manage under rapidly changing and pressurised
circumstances he ability to persuade and influence the ability to lead and direct
teams of professionals and service providers.
DUTIES : Line Management Function: Strategic management, advice and guidance in
respect of the following functional areas: Initiate and evaluate request for policy
development Facilitate policy alignment within the department Manage the
policy register Facilitate the policy communication process Provide expert
advice and support on policy development Facilitate the legislative process of
primary and secondary statutory policy Strategic Management( including
Change Management). People Management. Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr I de Vega Tel No: (021) 467 9323
POST 13/400 : DIRECTOR: INSTITUTIONAL RESOURCE SUPPORT REF NO: 172
Directorate: Institutional Resource Support
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13). An all-inclusive salary package consists of
a basic salary, and the employer's contribution to the Pension Fund. The
remainder of the package may be structured according to your personal needs.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA. At least
5 years' experience at a middle/senior managerial level, valid driver's license.
Successful completion of the Certificate for entry into the Senior Management
Service (SMS). Knowledge of: Advanced knowledge of public policy analysis
and public policy development processes advanced knowledge of strategy
development, strategy management and strategy monitoring and review
processes advanced knowledge of modern systems of governance and
administration advanced knowledge of public finance, people management
advanced knowledge of public communication, public education, public
participation and public discourse management processes knowledge of public
management theory and practice knowledge of global, regional and local
political, economic and social affairs impacting on the provincial government of
the Western Cape knowledge of Constitutional, legal and institutional
arrangements governing the South African public sector. Skills: Strong
conceptual and formulation skills strong leadership skills in complex situations
team building and strong interpersonal skills excellent verbal and written
communication skills outstanding planning, organising and people
management skills computer literacy. Personal attributes: A highly developed
interpretative and conceptualisation/ formulation ability the ability to render
advice and guidance in an objective and dedicated manner the ability to multi-
task, deal with ambiguity and manage under rapidly changing and pressurised
circumstances the ability to persuade and influence the ability to lead and direct
teams of professionals and service providers.
DUTIES : Strategic management, advice and guidance in respect of the following
functional areas: Manage the planning and delivery of LTSM to learning sites
Manage the planning and coordination of LTSM in line with future infrastructure
needs Facilitate the delivery of LTSM Monitor and evaluate LTSM Manage the
planning and implementation of LTS Manage the planning and coordination of
the LTS Ensure the delivery of LTS Monitor and evaluate LTS Manage the
247
planning and delivery of equipment to learning sites Manage the planning and
coordination of equipment in line with future infrastructure needs Facilitate the
delivery of equipment in line with infrastructure requirements Monitor the
delivery of equipment to learning sites Strategic Management (including
change management). People Management. Financial Management
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mc Glenatendolf Tel No: (021) 467 2021
248