PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 25 OF 2025
DATE ISSUED 17 JULY 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the
advertisements of vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the
Department is not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an
advertisement must be addressed to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the
department in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST
PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration
must not be approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the
applicable closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies.
Potential candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies
and attending where applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998
should be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote
representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding
the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : NATIONAL SOUTH AFRICAN POLICE SERVICE: DIVISION: HUMAN
RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Kindly note that the following 11 Posts were
advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026, The
requirements and Closing date have been amended as follows: Requirements:
No experience is required. Closing date is extended to 31 July 2026.
Post title: Human Resource Clerk (Salary Level 5) (x11 Posts)
Ref No: HRD 28/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 30/06/2026/Ref No: HRD
31/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 32/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 49/06/2026/Ref No: HRD
53/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 60/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 56/06/2026/Ref No: HRD
63/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Kindly note that the following 24 Posts were advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026. The requirements have been
amended as follows: Requirements: No experience is required.Post title:
Administration Clerk (Salary Level 5) (x24 Posts): Ref No: HRD
33/06/2026Ref No: HRD 34/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 35/06/2026/Ref No: HRD
36/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 37/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 38/06/2026/Ref No: HRD
39/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 40/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 42/06/2026/Ref No: HRD
43/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 44/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 46/06/2026/Ref No: HRD
47/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 50/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 52/06/2026/Ref No: HRD
54/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 57/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 58/06/2026/Ref No: HRD
61/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 64/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 65/06/2026/Ref No: HRD
66/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 69/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 70/06/2026/
Kindly note that the following 5 posts were advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026. The requirements have been
amended as follows: Requirements: No experience is required. Post title:
Secretary (Level 5) (x5 Posts)/Ref No: HRD 41/06/2026/Ref No: HRD
45/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 62/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 67/06/2026/Ref No: HRD
68/06/2026/
Kindly note that the following 3 posts were advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026. The requirements have been
amended as follows: Requirements: No experience is required. Post title:
Financial Clerk (Level 05) (X3 Posts)/Ref No: HRD 29/06/2026/Ref No: HRD
51/06/2026/Ref No: HRD 59/06/2026/Kindly note that the following 2 posts
were advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026. The
requirements have been amended as follows: Requirements: No experience is
required. Post title: Supply Chain Clerk (Level 5) (x2 Posts)/ Ref No: HRD
HRD 48/06/2026/Ref No: HRD HRD 55/06/2026/ Please note that the closing
date for all above-mentioned posts has been extended to 31 July 2026.
SOUTH AFRICAN POLICE SERVICE: PROVINCIAL COMMISSIONER:
FREE STATE: Kindly note that the following 2 posts were advertised in Public
Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026, the center where the posts
are located have been amended as follows: Post title: Finance Clerk
Supervisor (Level 07) (X2 Posts)/Ref No: FS 11/06/2026 Trompsburg SAPS:
Finance (X1 Post)/Ref No: FS 12/06/2026 Selosesha SAPS: Finance (X1
Post). The duties for posts FS11/06/2026 and FS12/062026 remain
unchanged. The closing date for the posts has also been extended to 31 July
2026.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE: DEPARTMENT OF
HUMAN SETTLEMENTS: The Free State Department of Human Settlements
(FSDHS) hereby withdraws the thirty-seven (37) internship posts that were
advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular (PSVC), Vacancy Circular
No. 23 of 2026, dated 03 July 2026. The withdrawal follows the identification of
possible errors in the advertisement, which require the Department to rectify
the information before the posts can be re-advertised. The Graduate Internship
Programme positions withdrawn are: HS 01/2026: Administrators- Affordable
Housing (x2 Posts), HS 02/2026: Rental Tribunal, HS 03/2026: Administrator -
Rental Tribunal, HS 04/2026: Informal Settlements And Land Tenure, HS
05/2026: Informal Settlements And Land Tenure, HS 06/2026: Housing
Development & Planning (x2 posts), HS 07/2026: Supply Chain Management
Asset Management (x2 posts), HS 08/2026: Supply Chain Management Bid
Administration And Logistics Management (x2 posts), HS 09/2026: Supply
Chain Management Demand And Performance Management (x2 posts),HS
10/2026: Information Technology (x2 posts), HS 11/2026: Organisational
Development, HS 12/2026: Financial & Budget Management Salaries And Tax
(x2 posts), HS 13/2026: Financial & Budget Management Financial Control,
HS 14/2026: Financial & Budget Management Payment Authorisation (x2
posts), HS 15/2026: Financial & Budget Management Office Of The Director,
HS 16/2026: Internal Audit (x2 posts), HS 17/2026: Skills Development (x2
posts), HS 18/2026: Human Resources Management (x3 posts), HS 19/2026:
Corporate Communication (x2 posts), HS 20/2026: Labour Relations (x2 posts)
HS 21/2026: Project Management Unit (District Services), HS 22/2026 Project
Management Unit (District Services), HS 23/2026: Office Administration, HS
2
24/2026: Security Management And Anti-Corruption. Should you require any
further information or clarification, please contact: Name: Mr. P. Soke, Email:
soke@fshs.gov.za.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG: DEPARTMENT OF SPORT,
ARTS, CULTURE AND RECREATION: Kindly note that the following post was
advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 24 dated 10 July 2026, Chief
Director: Arts, Culture and Heritage with Ref No: 050114 the post has been
advertised for 5 year contract, the post has been changed to permanent and
closing date has been extended to 31 July 2026.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA: SOUTH AFRICAN
POLICE SERVICE: Kindly note that the following X16 Posts were advertised
in Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026. The requirements
and Post Title have been amended as follows: Requirements: No experience
is required. Post Title: Administration Clerk/ Post title: Administration Clerk
(Level 5) (X16 Posts)/ Ref No: MP 26/06/2026, Ref No: MP 27/06/2026, Ref
No: MP 28/06/2026, Ref No: MP 29/06/2026, Ref No: MP 30/06/2026, Ref No:
MP 31/06/2026, Ref No: MP 32/06/2026, Ref No: MP 33/06/2026, Ref No: MP
34/06/2026, Ref No: MP 35/06/2026, Ref No: MP 36/06/2026 (X2 Posts), Ref
No: MP 37/06/2026 (X2 Posts), Ref No: MP 38/06/2026, Ref No: MP
39/06/2026/. Closing date has been extended to 31 July 2026
3
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 05 - 10
CORRECTIONAL SERVICES B 11 - 15
DEFENCE C 16 - 17
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR D 18 - 24
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING E 25 - 34
HOME AFFAIRS F 35 - 42
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE G 43 - 44
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES H 45 - 46
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT I 47 – 70
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY J 71 - 93
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE K 94 - 97
PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION L 98 - 100
PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION M 101 - 105
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE N 106 - 119
TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS O 120
TRANSPORT P 121 - 122
TREASURY Q 123 - 125
WATER AND SANITATION R 126 - 130
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
EASTERN CAPE S 131 - 237
FREE STATE T 238 - 247
GAUTENG U 248 - 254
KWAZULU NATAL V 255 - 265
LIMPOPO W 266 - 305
MPUMALANGA X 306 - 332
NORTH WEST Y 333 - 338
WESTERN CAPE Z 339 - 392
4
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All
shortlisted candidates, for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. NB:
Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will
be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case
shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your application before the
closing date, as late applications will not be considered. Do not submit
duplicate applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate
applications for each post. Due to high volumes, the Department will not
acknowledge receipt of applications. Communication will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not heard from us within 3 months,
please consider your application to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage
of the recruitment process, a moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the
Department is affected by any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring
or reorganisation of posts, the Department reserves the right to cancel the
recruitment process and re-advertise the post at any time in the future.
Important: DOA is an equal opportunity employer committed to promoting
representivity and affirmative action. We encourage applications from all
qualified candidates. The Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies.
By applying, you consent to the collection and processing of your personal
information for recruitment purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to
be available for assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined
by the Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability
checks, security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 25/01 : DIRECTOR: DEMAND AND ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO:
3/3/1/57/2026
Branch: Office of the Director-General
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng, Pretoria
5
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a Bachelor’s
degree or Advanced Diploma in Financial Management / Public Management /
Supply Chain Management / Purchasing Management / BCom in Accounting
(NQF Level 7). Certificate for entry into the Senior Management Services
(SMS). Job-related work experience: Minimum of five (5) years’ experience at
a middle / senior managerial level in the Supply Chain Management field. Job
related knowledge: Supply Chain Management Framework. Knowledge of
corporate governance issues. Knowledge of Public Service environment.
PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Job-related skills: Leadership skills.
Computer skills. Management skills. Project management skills.
Communication skills (Verbal and written). Conflict resolution skills. Excellent
facilitation skills. Public speaking skills/presentation skills. Negotiation skills.
Ability to work under pressure. Meeting deadlines. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage demand services: Coordinate the compilation, consolidation and
monitoring of the Demand Management Plan. Compile the procurement plan
for submission. Conduct market analysis for the department. Administer all
deviations from prescribed acquisition management processes. Administer the
reporting of deviations from the procurement plan to the relevant authorities.
Render acquisition services: Administer all acquisition management
processes. Administer the compilation of all reports and submissions to the
relevant stakeholders. Administer procurement processes: Administer
procurement of all infrastructure-related processes. Administer procurement of
all goods and services processes. Administer procurement of all IT related
procurement. Administer the secretariat functions of procurement committees
such as Bid Specification Committee, Bid Evaluation Committee and Bid
Adjudication Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MK Kgang Tel No: (012) 319 7331
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DDAMrecruit57@nda.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/02 : SCIENTIFIC MANAGER GRADE A-B REF NO: 3/3/1/56/2026
Directorate: Land Use Management
Re-advertisement: Candidates who applied previously are encouraged to
reapply.
SALARY : R1 143 468 - R2 108 922 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive package to be
structured in accordance with the OSD rules).
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a MSc
Degree in agriculture or equivalent Agricultural NQF level 9 qualifications.
SACNAP registration as a Professional Natural Scientist (Agriculture, Soil
Science). 6 years relevant post qualification experience in the field of natural
agricultural resources management. Appropriate experience in the application
of Geographical Information System (GIS) within the field of natural agricultural
resources assessment and inventories. Job Related Knowledge: Knowledge
and application of Conservation of Agricultural Resources Act 43 of 1983,
Subdivision of Agricultural Land Act 70 of 1970, Preservation and Development
of Agricultural Land Act, 39 of 2024, Spatial Data Infrastructure Act 54 of 2003
and Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act 16 of 2013. Advanced
knowledge and understanding of the natural agricultural resources of South
Africa, the protection and long-term sustainable use thereof within a set of
related systems. Broad knowledge and understanding of natural agricultural
resource, sustainable land use and data policies, conventions, legislations,
regulations, norms and standards. Broad knowledge and understanding of
research, research principles, methodologies and approaches use for natural
agricultural resources / sustainable land use. Knowledge of stand-alone mobile
and internet based Geographical Information Systems, applications and tools
including the principles, concepts, modelling and software packages used.
Knowledge regarding the methodologies/formats used and the application
thereof in the development of user requirements, system specifications and
test cases. Knowledge to develop and present training courses on the use of
data, Information and Systems (including GIS) and the interpretation/limitations
and the use of available data. Knowledge on effective stakeholder
management including leadership, consultation, negotiation and development.
6
Knowledge on effective management of personnel, HR matters and assets
including effective project management. Knowledge of relevant computer
equipment, hard and software. Job Related Skills: Geo- data collection,
verification, analysis and modelling, interpretation, visualisation and publishing
with regards to: Land capacity, Land suitability, Agricultural potential,
Agricultural ecological and land use zones, Land use systems & practices and
conservation status of the natural agricultural resources. Formulation,
interpretation and implementation of related policies, legislation, strategies and
standards. Analytical and critical/strategic thinking, monitoring, analysis, report
writing, communication and presentation skills including verbal and electronic
exchange of information, national as well as international verbal presentations
on complex topics, complex scientific publications, governance related
motivations and project management. Planning organisation, execution
maintenance and problem-solving pertaining to GIS. Ability to develop and
present training courses on the collection, management and use of Geo-
referenced data, information and knowledge. Development of user and
systems requirements in the absence of establishment frameworks based on
research and user needs. Ability to manage personnel, knowledge and change.
Computer skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Extended working
hours. Travelling. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide leadership to develop and implement national policy, regulatory
strategic and administrative frameworks/ systems to manage the collection,
use and preservation of data, information and knowledge require for the
planning, management and sustainable use of natural agricultural resources.
Develop relationships and collaborations with provincial, national, regional and
international counterparts. Provide inputs and/or develop policies, legislation,
strategies and administrative systems to ensure the collection, analysis,
dissemination, use and archiving of data, information and knowledge. Evaluate
and monitor the effectiveness, efficiency of and compliance with policies,
legislation and administrative systems and guide the setting of scientific
standards, specifications and service standards. Provide expert support and
advice to stakeholders. Oversee the development and application of
scientific/technical methodologies, procedures and standards to ensure the
availability and use of geo-referenced data, information and knowledge,
monitor the efficiency thereof and evolve with new technology. Develop
relationships and collaborations with provincial, national and international
counterpart. Design scientific methodologies, procedures and standards for
and ensure the collection, analysis dissemination, use and archiving of
scientific data and information. Present and exchange scientific data,
information and knowledge at national, regional and international forums.
Evaluate and monitor the efficiency/impact of methodologies, systems,
standards and the accuracy of data and information. Provide export support
and advice to stakeholders. Lead and coordinate research
programmes/projects and conduct research to deliver the data, information and
knowledge required for the planning, management and sustainable use of
natural agricultural resources. Lead, co-ordinate and conduct basic
(fundamental) and applied research. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
science-related matters. Ensure knowledge generation and dissemination.
Formulate and evaluate research proposals. Review scientific reports and
publications. Compile research reports, publish and present research findings.
Source funding for research projects. Manage the development of human
resources effectively and efficiently. Continuous own professional development
to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Mentor, train and develop
scientists and others to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to
sound scientific principles and code of practice. Supervise scientific work and
processes. Manage the development and performance of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RK Mampholo Tel No: (012) 319 7687
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SMrecruit56@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: Africans, Coloureds and Persons with disability.
POST 25/03 : REGIONAL MANAGER REF NO: 3/3/1/54/2026
Directorate: Inspection Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Kempton Park)
7
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a National
Diploma in Agriculture / Natural Science / Plant Pathology / Entomology/
Parasitology / Horticulture / Agronomy / Botany / Food Science / Microbiology
and Food Technology (NQF6). A Minimum of 3 years relevant experience at a
junior management level. Job Related Knowledge: Knowledge of the Public
Service Regulations. International agreements, conventions and bilateral
agreements relating to Phytosanitary, Sanitary and food quality matters.
Relevant legislation and regulations, norms and standards. Export and import
programmes and their requirements. Job Related Skills: Ability to communicate
well and interact with people at different levels. Planning and organising skills.
Technical skills. Law enforcement skills. Problem solving skills. Interpretation
skills. Analytical skills. Negotiation skills. Listening skills. Computer Literacy.
Report writing skills. A Valid driver’s License. Extended working hours.
Travelling. Relief duties.
DUTIES : Manage and ensure the effective application of the relevant legislation.
Coordinate the provision of effective quality, sanitary and phytosanitary
inspection services for the regulated agricultural products in the region, in line
with the relevant legislation. Ensure the application of all relevant international
agreements or protocols in the region. Develop and ensure the implementation
and application of standard operating procedures for the inspection of
regulated agricultural products in the region. Provide guidance and technical
advice with regards to the inspection of regulated agricultural products.
Develop and implement actions plans to ensure implementation of awareness
programme and activities. Manage inspections with regards to plant health
quality and food hygiene in the region. Ensure the promotion of agricultural
trade through quality and sanitary assurance. Manage the issuing of
phytosanitary and quality certificates, export certificates as required for
international trade. Participate in various internal and external forums. Conduct
audits on the relevant systems and assignees. Manage the collection, collation,
and verification of information pertaining to phytosanitary, quality and food
safety management systems. Conduct audits on the phytosanitary, quality and
food safety management systems and report thereon. Stakeholders Liaison.
Liaise with national and international stakeholders, industry role players, other
departments and DOA officials on the technical matters related to regulated
plant and plant products. Representing the Department of various forums.
Provide information, advice and guidance to emerging and /or established
farmers in relations to market access.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Mediroe at 060 973 2550
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
RMrecruit54@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African and white Females and African and Coloured Males and
Persons with disability.
POST 25/04 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
3/3/1/53/2026
Directorate: Compliance Management Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and National
Diploma in Internal Auditing / Financial Management / Law / Risk Management.
Minimum of 3 years’ supervisory experience working in compliance
management. Job related knowledge: knowledge of corporate governance
issues, Compliance management, public service environment, Public Financial
Management Act (PFMA) and National Treasury Regulations. Relevant
legislation and regulations, norms and standards. Job related skills: Dynamic
leadership skills, Computer literacy in Microsoft Office Suite, Project
management skills, Communications skills (verbal and written), Presentation
and Facilitation skills. Problem solving and analysis. Extended working hours
and ability to work under pressure. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Implement a compliance management strategy. Implement compliance
management process which includes compliance identification, compliance
risk assessment, compliance risk management and reporting. Develop a
training strategy and train employees in the Department on compliance
awareness. Update the Departmental Compliance universe on an on-going
basis. Provide assistance in compiling the annual compliance management
8
implementation plan. Participate in committees that serve as advisory bodies
in the area of compliance risk management. Provide assistance in all
compliance report coordination and assist in any compliance related
information required by Risk and Compliance Committee. Align compliance
checklist with strategic and operational plans on an on-going basis. Identify
strategic and operational plans of the Department in order to understand the
Departmental business for the purpose of identifying regulatory requirements.
Conduct compliance assessments in the department according to procedure.
Conduct compliance monitoring in accordance with developed compliance
monitoring tools and techniques. Communicate best practice methodologies
and standards for compliance functionality. Research on what are the best
compliance practice methodologies and contribute in improving the
Departmental compliance management methodology.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Setati at 071 878 9179
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ADCMrecruit53@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Male and Persons with disability.
POST 25/05 : SENIOR ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO:
3/3/1/52/2026
Directorate: Human Resources Utilization and Development
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a National Diploma in Management
Services / Operations Management / Production Management, Organizational
and Work study qualifications (NQF level 6). Minimum of one (1) year
experience. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of Public Service and
Departmental prescripts / policies. Work study principles and techniques, Job
design and job profile compilation, Policies, procedure and prescripts,
Research / analysis, Job analysis and evaluation. Job related skills: Planning
and organizing, Communication, Interpersonal relations, Accuracy,
thoroughness and timorousness, Facilitation and presentation, Interpretation
of policies and analytical skills. Be willing to travel and work long, extended
hours. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Conduct job analysis and job evaluation: acknowledge all requests received,
identify relevant role-players, conduct interview to obtain relevant information,
identify organisation deficiencies, benchmark posts, complete relevant
Compensate-Evaluate documents, compile final documents and present
recommendations to the JE panel. Render support regarding the provision of
secretariat services for committees: arrange venue for meetings, capture JE
data on Compensate-Evaluate system, prepare files for JE panels, capture
information during JE panel meetings into Compensate-Evaluate system,
Update JE documents with amended information, update JE database and
filing of JE documents. Compilation of job descriptions: gather relevant
information from the available resources (including research, benchmarking,
etc), arrange meetings and gather information with relevant role players,
analyse gathered information and consult stakeholders. Undertake
organisation and post establishment investigation: develop terms of reference
for interventions, undertake research/benchmark to obtain all necessary
information, analyse and process information, undertake functional analysis,
determine post establishment needs and make recommendations and draft
optimisation structure and job descriptions. Undertake investigations to
optimise work procedures and methods: Gather and analyse information,
compile documents (report, etc.) of analysed information with
recommendations and compile a draft report with recommendations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Manamela Tel No: (012) 312 9569
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SODPrecruit52@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Female and Persons with disability.
POST 25/06 : TRACTOR DRIVER/OPERATOR REF NO: 3/3/1/55/2026
Directorate: Inspectorate Services
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
9
CENTRE : Northwest (Buffelspoort)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 10 Certificate (NQF 3) A
Minimum of Five (5) years driving and operating specialised equipment
experience. Job Related Knowledge: Knowledge of operation of the
equipment. Physical inspection of vehicles and interpret instruction for proper
use of all controls for safe operation of vehicles. Planting and harvesting of
crops. Interpret and follow operating manuals. Maintenance manuals and
service charts. Job Related Skills: Operating a tractor. Operating specialised
machinery such as a TLB, Bulldozer etc. Using of different implements. Road
maintenance. Communication skills. Ability to read and write. Good eyesight.
Teamwork. A Valid driver’s license Code EC and operating Certificate.
DUTIES : Operates tractor with various implements to assist with physical execution of
various general farming activities. Perform routine maintenance and
preparations of vineyards, Orchards, nurseries and experimental site at PQS.
Perform the implementation and equipment maintenance and administrative
support. Ensure safe storage, cleaning and routine maintenance and repair of
implements and equipment. Operate Specialised Machinery. Operation of
specialised equipment such as boilers, pressurizers, autoclaves, tractors,
brush cutters, mowers, spray pumps, and front-end loaders. Perform basic
maintenance and repair of tractors, implements and equipment. Perform
general technical support with pest control in quarantine facilities. Responsible
for pesticide application according to recommendations from PQS. Assist with
preparation and mixing of pesticides according to recommendations as well as
manual spot spray application of pants in facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Pongolo Tel No: (021) 809 1640
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
TDOrecruit55@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target African Males and Persons with disability.
10
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
The Department of Correctional Services is an equal opportunity employer. The Department will take into
consideration the objectives of Section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996
(Act 108 of 1996) and the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) in filling of these vacancies. It is
our intention to promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of
these positions. In support of this strategy, applicants need to indicate race, gender and disability status
on the application form/CV. Applicants who have retired from the Public Service with a specific
determination that they cannot be re-appointed or have been declared medically unfit will not be
considered.
APPLICATIONS : Send your complete application to:
Eastern Cape Region: The Regional Commissioner Eastern Cape.
Recruitment Section, P/Bag X9013, East London OR hand deliver at: Moore
Street, Block E Ocean Terrace Quigney, East London, 5211. Contact persons:
Ms Myataza Z Tel No: (043) 706 7866/Ms Mgugudo N Tel No: (043) 706 7882.
Western Cape Region: The Regional Commissioner Western Cape,
Recruitment Section, P/Bag X14, Goodwood, 7459 OR hand deliver at: Corner
of Peninsula Drive & Breede River Avenue, Monte Vista, 7406. Contact
persons: Ms. A Reddy 021 559 7920 / Ms. NC Sotyibi 021 558 0518/ Mr S.
Sikisazane Tel No: (021) 558 0108.
Applications for the above positions can also be submitted online at:
https://careers.dcs.gov.za/. Candidates must comply with the minimum
appointment requirements. CV’s should be aligned to reflect one’s degree of
compliance with the advert requirements and responsibilities. The Department
of Correctional Services reserves the right not to fill any of these advertised
posts.
CLOSING DATE : 03 August 2026 @ 15:45. It is the sole responsibility of an applicant to ensure
that their application reaches DCS before the closing date.
NOTE : All costs associated with an application will be borne by the applicant. Please
take note that correspondence will only be conducted with the shortlisted
candidates. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application is
unsuccessful. Please do not call the department to enquire about the progress
of your application. Applicants must note that further checks will be conducted
once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to positive
outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance, security vetting,
qualification verification and criminal records verification. Appointment will be
provisional, pending the issue of a security clearance. If you cannot get a
security clearance, your appointment will be re-considered/possibly
terminated. Fingerprints may be taken on the day of the interview. The Z83
application form must be completed in full. Only a detailed CV should be
attached to your application form. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies not older than 6 months of qualifications and other
related documents on or before the day of the interview. Please submit a
complete application for the post you apply for and attach your supporting
document on a pdf format, stating the correct reference for the position you are
interested in. Requirement for valid driver’s licence is not applicable to
applicants with a disability. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All appointments are subject
to personnel suitability checks and will be made in accordance with applicable
legislation, policies and fair recruitment practices.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/07 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 - 3
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum, all-inclusive package
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum, all-inclusive package
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum, all-inclusive package
11
CENTRE : Goodwood/Pollsmoor Ref No: WC 2026/07/12
Drakenstein/Allandale Ref No: WC 2026/07/13
West Coast/Voorberg Ref No: WC 2026/07/14
Southern Cape Ref No: WC 2026/07/15 (X2 Posts)
Overberg Ref No: WC 2026/07/16
Breede River Ref No: WC 2026/07/17
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a medical officer. Current registration with
the HPCSA as a medical practitioner. Basic medical degree (MBBCH or
equivalent). Grade 1: No experience required. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as Medical Officer after registration with the HPCSA as
a Medical Practitioner. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience
as Medical Officer after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner.
Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes:
Excellent clinical skills, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and
management procedures. Good professional attitude, communication skills
and ethics in relation to patients/relevant stakeholders. Knowledge of public
health legislation. Financial management. Project and programme
management, transformation management, change management and
stakeholder management skills. Problem solving and analysis, service delivery
innovation, decision making, people management and empowerment and
evaluation skills. Integrity and honesty. Teamwork ability. Confidentiality and
good interpersonal relations. Assertiveness and ability to network. Good
understanding of the public service policy and legislative framework.
DUTIES : Facilitate and support the provision of medical health care services within the
correctional facilities. Render basic medical health care services to inmates.
Improve clinical quality of primary health care services through direct patient
care, mentoring and supervision of health care professionals through an
integrated approach programme. Render medico-legal services. Attendance of
relevant administrative and clinical meetings. Improve the quality of medical
care by providing appropriate clinical care services and maintain good medical
practice. Implement and monitor adherence to national standards. Implement
and monitor compliance with Standard Treatment Guidelines and Essential
Medicine List as per Essential Drug Programme: South Africa. Facilitate and
coordinate medical emergency preparedness and life support services.
Provide emergency medical care, including after hours. Refer patients to
authorised and recognised health care providers. Liaise with internal and
external counterparts regarding healthcare delivery. Management of
performance information, human resources, finance and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape Region: Ms. A Reddy Tel No: (021) 559 7920 / Ms. NC Sotyibi
Tel No: (021) 558 0518/ Mr S. Sikisazane Tel No: (021) 558 0108.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 25/08 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1: PN-B1 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE) REF NO: EC 2026/07/01 (X2 POSTS)
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R495 423 per annum, (plus 37% in lieu of benefits)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape region: Sada Management Area: Burgersdorp Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/National Diploma with four years relevant nursing experience after
registration as a professional nurse with the South African Nursing Council and
post basic qualification in Primary Health Care accredited with the Council.
Post basic qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in Curative Skills in
Primary Health Care accredited with the SANC. Current registration with the
council as a professional Nurse. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence.
Competencies And Attributes: Knowledge of nursing care processes and
procedures, nursing statutes, and other relevant legal frameworks such as:
Nursing, Health, Occupational and Safety Act. Knowledge of Offender Rights
Charter and Batho-Pele principles. Sound knowledge of the health
programmes run at the PHC level. Ability to relieve in different service areas.
Co-ordination, planning team building, supervisory, good communication and
problem-solving skills. Knowledge of all applicable legislation guidelines and
policies related to nursing principles. Good interpersonal relationship and
listening skills. Empathy, tactfulness, integrity and honesty. Report writing
skills. Adaptability and conflict management. Ability to coordinate and
collaborate with internal and external stakeholders.
12
DUTIES : Provide quality comprehensive Primary Health care services through
promoting preventative, curative and rehabilitative services for offenders.
Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards for primary health care. Conduct routine examination of
offenders and treatment of minor ailments according to scope of practice.
Render administrative services such as providing accurate statistics for
evaluation and future planning. Identifying needs for financial planning and
indirect control of expenditure as an integral part of planning and organising,
including ordering and control of medicine and medical stock. Develop and
ensure implementation of nursing care plans. Updating of offender’s records
and participate in clinical records audits. Provide safe and therapeutic
environment as laid down by the Nursing, Occupational Health and Safety Act
and all other applicable prescripts. Manage human resources, finances and
assets. Manage performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape Region: Ms Myataza Z Tel No: (043) 706 7866/Ms Mgugudo N
Tel No: (043) 706 7882.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 25/09 : EDUCATIONIST (M+4): ENGLISH AND MATHEMATICS LITERACY REF
NO: EC 2026/07/03
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R375 270 per annum, (plus 37% in lieu of benefits)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape region: Sada Management Area: Burgersdorp Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised four (4) year Degree or equivalent qualification in Education,
Specialising in English and Mathematics Literacy. Registration with the South
African Council of Educators. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence.
Competencies and Attributes: Plan, organise, lead and control, client
orientation and communication, policy implementation, report writing, diversity
management, training and development, service delivery innovation and
creativity, project management, conflict management, facilitation management,
integrity and honesty, knowledge and understanding of public service
management framework, influence and impact, presentation skills, conceptual
skills and conflict management skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate and deliver mathematics and English education programmes to
offenders in support of their academic development, rehabilitation and
successful reintegration into society. Implement and apply departmental
education policies, procedures and curriculum requirements within correctional
facilities. Present mathematics lessons in accordance with approved
educational standards and curriculum frameworks. Assess progress through
appropriate evaluation methods, monitor academic performance and maintain
accurate records. Promote numeracy, problem-solving and analytical skills
while ensuring adherence to established education and training service
standards. Contribute to the creation of a conducive learning environment that
supports effective teaching and learning and encourages lifelong learning and
personal development among offenders. Manage human resources, finances
and assets. Manage performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape Region: Ms Myataza Z Tel No: (043) 706 7866/Ms Mgugudo N
Tel No: (043) 706 7882.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act.
POST 25/10 : EDUCATIONIST (M+4): APPLIED AGRICULTURE & AGRICULTURAL
TECHNOLOGY AND ISIXHOSA REF NO: EC 2026/07/04
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R375 270 per annum, (plus 37% in lieu of benefits)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape region: Sada Management Area: Burgersdorp Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised four (4) year Degree or equivalent qualification in Education,
Specialising in Applied Agriculture & Agricultural Technology and IsiXhosa.
Registration with the South African Council of Educators. Computer literate.
Valid driver’s licence. Competencies and Attributes: Plan, organise, lead and
control, client orientation and communication, policy implementation, report
writing, diversity management, training and development, service delivery
innovation and creativity, project management, conflict management,
facilitation management, integrity and honesty, knowledge and understanding
13
of public service management framework, influence and impact, presentation
skills, conceptual skills and conflict management skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate and deliver applied agriculture and agricultural technology and
IsiXhosa education programmes to offenders in support of skills development,
rehabilitation and successful reintegration into society. Implement and apply
departmental education policies, procedures and curriculum requirements
within correctional facilities. Present learning programmes in accordance with
approved educational standards and curriculum frameworks. Provide learners
with theoretical knowledge and practical skills in agriculture and agricultural
technology, promoting sustainable agricultural practices and vocational
competence. Assess progress through appropriate evaluation methods,
monitor academic performance and maintain accurate records. Ensure
compliance with established education and training service standards and
contribute to the creation of a conducive learning environment that supports
effective teaching, learning and personal development among offenders.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape Region: Ms Myataza Z Tel No: (043) 706 7866/Ms Mgugudo N
Tel No: (043) 706 7882.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act.
POST 25/11 : EDUCATIONIST (M+4): HISTORY AND LIFE ORIENTATION REF NO: EC
2026/07/05
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R375 270 per annum, (plus 37% in lieu of benefits)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape region: Sada Management Area: Burgersdorp Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized four (4) year Degree or equivalent qualification in Education
Specialising in History and Life Orientation. Registration with the South African
Council of Educators. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
And Attributes: Plan, organise, lead and control, client orientation and
communication, policy implementation, report writing, diversity management,
training and development, service delivery innovation and creativity, project
management, conflict management, facilitation management integrity and
honesty, knowledge and understanding of public service management
framework, influence and impact, presentation skills, conceptual skills and
conflict management skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate and deliver history and life orientation education programmes to
offenders in support of their academic development, rehabilitation and
successful reintegration into society. Implement and apply departmental
education policies, procedures and curriculum requirements within correctional
facilities. Present history lessons in accordance with approved educational
standards and curriculum frameworks. Promote critical thinking, historical
inquiry and an understanding of historical events and their impact on society.
Assess progress through appropriate evaluation methods, monitor academic
performance and maintain accurate records. Ensure adherence to established
education and training service standards and contribute to the creation of a
conducive learning environment that supports effective teaching, learning and
personal development among offenders. Manage human resources, finances
and assets. Manage performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape Region: Ms Myataza Z Tel No: (043) 706 7866/Ms Mgugudo N
Tel No: (043) 706 7882.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act.
POST 25/12 : EDUCATIONIST (M+4): TOURISM AND MATHEMATICS LITERACY REF
NO: EC 2026/07/06
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R375 270 per annum, (plus 37% in lieu of benefits)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape region: Sada Management Area: Burgersdorp Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized four (4) year Degree or equivalent qualification in Education
Specialising in Tourism and Mathematics Literacy. Registration with the South
African Council of Educators. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence.
Competencies and Attributes: Plan, organise, lead and control, client
orientation and communication, policy implementation, report writing, diversity
management, training and development, service delivery innovation and
creativity, project management, conflict management, facilitation management
14
integrity and honesty, knowledge and understanding of public service
management framework, influence and impact, presentation skills, conceptual
skills and conflict management skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate and deliver tourism and maths literacy education programmes to
offenders in support of their academic development, skills acquisition,
rehabilitation and successful reintegration into society. Implement and apply
departmental education policies, procedures and curriculum requirements
within correctional facilities. Present tourism learning programmes in
accordance with approved educational standards and curriculum frameworks.
Promote an understanding of the tourism industry, customer service,
entrepreneurship, cultural diversity and sustainable tourism practices. Assess
progress through appropriate evaluation methods, monitor academic
performance and maintain accurate records. Ensure adherence to established
education and training service standards and contribute to the creation of a
conducive learning environment that supports effective teaching, learning and
personal development among offenders. Manage human resources, finances
and assets. Manage performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape Region: Ms Myataza Z Tel No: (043) 706 7866/Ms Mgugudo N
Tel No: (043) 706 7882.
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Services Act.
POST 25/13 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (GENERAL NURSING) (PN-A2) REF
NO: EC 2026/07/02 (X2 POSTS)
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R337 359 per annum, (plus 37% in lieu of benefits)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape region: Sada Management Area: Burgersdorp Correctional
Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized Degree/National Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification
that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council as a
Professional Nurse. Current registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC). Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies and Attributes:
Knowledge of nursing care process and procedures, nursing statutes and other
relevant legal frameworks, including grievance procedure and disciplinary code
and procedure, communication, report-writing, liaison, coordination, facilitation,
problem-solving, planning and organising skills.
DUTIES : Render comprehensive nursing care to patients through the assessment,
planning, implementation, and evaluation of nursing interventions in
accordance with prescribed nursing care plans, clinical protocols and
professional standards. Provide nursing services in compliance with applicable
healthcare legislation, departmental policies, and ethical guidelines. Maintain
accurate patient records and ensure the confidentiality of patient information.
Participate in the implementation of quality assurance, infection prevention and
control measures to promote safe and effective healthcare services. Utilise
allocated human, material and medical resources efficiently and responsibly.
Promote patient advocacy by responding to patients’ health needs, rights and
expectations in line with Batho Pele principles. Provide health education and
counselling to patients, families, communities and collaborate effectively with
members of the multidisciplinary healthcare team to ensure integrated and
patient-centred care. Participate in continuous professional development
activities to maintain and enhance professional knowledge and skills. Manage
human resources, finances and assets. Manage performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Eastern Cape Region: Ms Myataza Z Tel No: (043) 706 7866/Ms Mgugudo N
Tel No: (043) 706 7882.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
15
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
APPLICATIONS : Defence International Affairs Division, Private Bag X910, Pretoria, 0001 or may
be hand delivered at Armscor Building, Corner Nossob and Boeing Street,
Erasmuskloof, Pretoria or email to diadiv@dod.mil.za
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026 at 16h00 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed
copies will not be considered).
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan. Applications must
be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from any Public Service
Department office, i.e., effective 01 January 2021, or on the DPSA website link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an application be received
using an incorrect application employment form Z83, it will be disqualified,
which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant and which must be
accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the applicant’s
training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience). Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the
interview, which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the
above instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants
applying for more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as
the documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for.
If an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same application form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must
be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score
both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preference, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. The competency assessment will be limited to successful candidates
in the interview process only. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability checks (pre-employment screening) which may include
social media profiles checks. A successful candidate will have to undergo a full
security vetting while in the employ of the department, and a negative outcome
shall nullify the employment contract. Failure to submit the required documents
will result in your application not being considered. Successful candidates will
be required to disclose their financial interests within one (1) month of
appointment. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback within 3
(three) months after the closing date should consider their application
unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of
applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job description(s)
please contact the person indicated in the post details. Successful candidates
will be appointed on probation for a period of twelve (12) months in terms of
the prescribed rules.
16
OTHER POST
POST 25/14 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: DIA/23/25/26
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Computer literate (MS Word, Excel and
PowerPoint). Ability to communicate effectively (written and verbal). Analytical,
Problem solving skills, Co-ordination, Planning and Organising skills. Good
interpersonal skills. Ability to work in a team and independently. Basic
knowledge of PMFA and treasury regulations regarding procurement and
expenditure control.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services such as; record, organise, store,
capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers
and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain filing system of the office. Type letters and/or other
correspondence when required. Keep and maintain incoming and outgoing
document register of the office. Provide supply chain clerical support services;
liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of
goods and services. Obtain quotations and complete procurement forms to
purchase office supplies. Control office stationery stock. Keep and maintain
asset register of the Division. Provide personnel administration clerical support
service; maintain leave register. Keep and maintain personnel records and
attendance register. Arrange travelling and accommodation. Provide financial
administration support service; capture and update expenditure. Check
correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit for
approval. Handle telephone accounts and petty cash.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T.E. Bogopane Tel No: (012) 355 5435, Mr M.W. Senama Tel No: (012) 355
5761
17
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one attachment. Zipped, IMG and JPEG
documents will not be accepted. Indicate the correct job title and the reference
number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email
address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act(POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/15 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT &
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS (X2 POSTS)
(Three (3) year contract)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mmabatho Ref No: HR4/4/07/01 (X1 Post)
18
Provincial Office: Free State Ref No: HR 4/4/8/1006 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management/Public
Management/Employee Relations at NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA.
Driver's License will be an added advantage. Four (4) years' experience of
which two (2) years must be functional experience in Human Resource
Management and Employee Relations environment, and two (2) years must be
at a Senior Practitioner level. Knowledge: Public Service Transformation and
Management Issues, White Paper on Transformation of the Public Service,
Human Resource Systems and Procedures, Public Service Act and
Resolutions, Recruitment and Selection, Departmental Policies and
Procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Minimum Information Security Standards,
PERSAL and other HR Information Management Systems. Skills:
Communication (Verbal and Written), Computer Literacy (Excel, Word,
PowerPoint, PERSAL, etc.), Innovative/Creative, Presentation,
Responsiveness, Report Writing, Time Management, Organising and
Planning, Financial Management, Policy Analysis, Problem Solving and
Decision Making.
DUTIES : Coordinate and monitor the implementation of Human Resource Management
policies in the Province. Monitor and provide advice on the implementation of
Employee Relations policies and prescripts. Coordinate and manage the
implementation of Employment Equity programmes. Monitor the administration
of service benefits. Manage resources (Human, Finance, Equipment/Assets)
in the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mokoena Tel No: (018) 387 8100 (Mmabatho)
Mr SZ Segalo Tel No: (051) 505 6206 (Free State)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho or email: Jobs-
ASDHRM-NW@labour.gov.za
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs3@labour.gov.za
POST 25/16 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION REF NO:
HR4/4/7/78
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognised by SAQA in Human
Resource Management. Two (2) years' functional experience in Human
Resources Management (conditions of service, recruitment and selection)
environment. Knowledge: Human Resource Management Methodology,
Principles and Strategies. Digital Acumen / Relevant HRM Systems.
Compensation Fund business strategies and goals. Compensation for
Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA). DPSA Directives. Batho Pele
Principles. Labour Relations Act (LRA). Employment Equity Act (EEA). Basic
Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). National Treasury Regulations. Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework (PPPF). Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA). Promotion
of the Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Minimum Information Security
Standards (MISS). Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Public
Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). SKILLS: Critical and
Innovative Thinking. Inspire Commitment. Programme/Project Management.
Quality Assurance. Service Delivery Innovation. Stakeholder Development and
Relations. Data Gathering and Analysis. Data/Record Management.
DUTIES : Conduct recruitment and selection processes for COID Services in the
Province. Develop the database for filled and vacant posts for COID Services
in the Province. Perform conditions of service processes for COID Services in
the Province. Administer PERSAL establishment for COID Services in the
Province. Keep safe all Human Resource records for COID Services in the
Province.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Mpulwane Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 or
hand deliver at Labour Building, Corner Hofmeyer Avenue and Beatty Street,
Emalahleni, 1035. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-
COIDHR1@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Males, Indian Females, White Males,
White Females and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
19
POST 25/17 : SUPERVISOR: CLIENT SERVICES REF NO: HR4/4/06/08
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) as recognised by SAQA in
Customer Services / Management / Customer Relations / Contact Centre
Management / Office Administration Management / Communication /
Marketing. Two (2) years functional experience in customer care/client services
environment. Knowledge: Relevant regulations, laws and legislations. Public
Service Act. Public Service Regulation. Compensation Fund business
strategies and goals. Compensation Fund value chain. Directorate goals and
performance requirement. PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Customer Service
(Batho Pele Principles). Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). Promotion
of Access to Information Act. The Constitution of RSA. Skills: Coaching and
Mentoring. Conflict Management. Critical and Innovative thinking. Inspire
Commitment. People Management. Performance oversight.
Programme/Project Management. Quality Assurance. Service Delivery
Innovation. Stakeholder Development and Relations.
DUTIES : Monitor and oversee the help desk at the first port of entry within the COID
service. Facilitate customer driven quality workflow processes. Coordinate and
ensure quality resolution of queries. Attend all queries regarding legislations
and follow up on pending queries. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SA Mchunu Tel No: (031) 336 1692 (Durban)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Durban Labour Centre, PO Box 10074, Marine Parade, 4056
Or hand deliver at Govt Buildings, Masonic Grove, Durban, 4001. For Durban
Labour Centre Online Application: Jobs-KZN7@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: Priority will be given to Africa Males, Coloured Males, Coloured
Females, Indian Males, Indian Females, White Males and White Females.
POST 25/18 : OHS INSPECTOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Labour Centre, Free State Ref No: HR4/4/8/1012 (X1 Post)
Zastron Labour Centre, Free State Ref No: HR4/4/8/1013 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus 3 year recognised qualification in the relevant field
Electrical Engineering. A valid driver license. No experience required.
Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, as amended, Regulations (21), South African National Standards
(Codes)- incorporated Codes become regulations, Compensation for
Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployment Insurance Act. Skills:
Planning and organising, Communication skills, Computer Literacy, Facilitation
skills, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem
solving skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical
skills, Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation, including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse the impact thereof,
consolidate and compile a report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports, including
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Ndlela Tel No: (051) 411 6403
Mr. C van Niekerk Tel No: (058) 713 0373
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein
Email: jobs-fs2@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Males, African with Disabilities, Coloured Males,
Coloured with Disabilities, White Males and White Females.
20
POST 25/19 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (X2
POSTS)
(Three (3) year contract)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mmabatho Ref No: HR4/4/07/02 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Free State Ref No: HR 4/4/8/1007 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management/Public
Management at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Driver's License will be
an added advantage. Two (2) years functional experience in human resource
management environment. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Public Service Regulations (PSR), Public Service Act (PSA), Labour
Relations Act (LRA), Employment Equity Act (EEA), PSCBC and CCMA
Procedures, Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Negotiation, People Management,
Problem Solving, Presentation, Planning and Organizing, Communication,
Computer Literacy, Report Writing.
DUTIES : Monitor the Recruitment and Selection process. Facilitate the processing and
approve service benefits. Provide and monitor termination of service at the
province. Monitor the establishment and implementation of HR policies.
Supervise resources (Human, Finance, Equipment/ Assets) in the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mokoena Tel No: (018) 387 8100 (Mmabatho)
Mr SZ Segalo Tel No: (051) 505 6206 (Free State)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho or email: Jobs-
SPHRM-NW@labour.gov.za
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs4@labour.gov.za
POST 25/20 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS (X2 POSTS)
(Three (3) year contract)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mmabatho Ref No HR4/4/07/03 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Free State HR 4/4/8/1008 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) in Human Resource
Management/Labour Relations Management as recognized by SAQA. Driver's
License will be an added advantage. Two (2) years must be functional
experience in Employment Relations Management environment. Knowledge:
Public Service Commission's rules for dealing with complaints and grievances.
Public Service Coordinating Bargaining Council resolutions. Interpretation of
case law and trends in Labour Law. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Labour Relations
Act (LRA). Employment Equity Act (EEA). PSCBC and CCMA procedures.
Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Skills: Negotiation. People
Management. Problem Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organising.
Communication. Computer Literacy. Report Writing. Conflict Management.
Research.
DUTIES : Conduct and analyse all grievances and complaints received from employees
in the Province. Draft charges and finalise all misconduct cases in the Province.
Represent the Department in all disputes referred to the General Public Service
Sectoral Bargaining Council (GPSSBC) and the Commission for Conciliation,
Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA). Conduct advocacy sessions on
employment-related matters in the Province. Provide administrative support
services in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mokoena Tel No: (018) 387 8100 (Mmabatho)
Mr SZ Segalo Tel No: (051) 505 6206 (Free State)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho or email: Jobs-
SPER-NW@labour.gov.za
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs4@labour.gov.za
21
POST 25/21 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT (X2 POSTS)
(Three (3) year contract)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mmabatho Ref No: HR4/4/07/04 (X1 Post)
Provincial Office: Free State Ref No: HR 4/4/8/1008 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource
Management/Development / Training and Development / Management of
Training/ Public Management / Public Management / Industrial and
Organisational Psychology at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Driver’s
license will be an added advantage. Two (2) years functional experience in
Human Resource Development / Training and Development / Performance
Management Services. Knowledge: Public Service Act (PSA). Public Service
Regulations (PSR). Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Human
Resource Development Policies. Human Resource Systems (PERSAL). Skills
Development Act (SDA). Skills Development Levies Act (SDLA). Labour
Relations Act (LRA). Basic Condition of Employment Act. Employment Equity
Act (EEA). Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Skills:
Communication (Verbal and Written). Computer literacy. People Management.
Project Management. Presentation. Report writing. Time management. Design
and Development. Organising and Planning. Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation Human Resource Development initiatives in
the Province. Coordinate the implementation of Performance Management
System in the Province. Implement Internship / Learnership Programmes in the
Province. Coordinate and facilitate Orientation and Induction Programmes.
Manage resources (Human, Finance, Equipment/ Assets) in the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mokoena Tel No: (018) 387 8100 (Mmabatho)
Mr SZ Segalo Tel No: (051) 505 6206 (Free State)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho or email: Jobs-
SPHRD-NW@labour.gov.za
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs4@labour.gov.za
POST 25/22 : MEDICAL ADJUDICATOR: PROFESSIONAL NURSE (GRADE 1-3)
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 – R397 392 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R411 978 – R485 289 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R495 423 – R635 088 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Durban - Ref No. HR4/4/06/09
REQUIREMENTS : 4 years’ degree/ 3 years’ diploma in Nursing. Post Graduate Diploma in
Occupational Health/ Theatre Technique/ Critical Care will be an advantage.
Grade 1: 2-9 years’ experience gained after registration, Grade 2: 10-19 years’
experience gained after registration & Grade 3: 20 years above experience
gained after registration in trauma/emergency/internal medical/ general
surgery/ Orthopaedics/ theatre at the regional public hospital level or private
hospital, gained after registration. Experience in medical claims processing/
insurance environment will be an added advantage. Registration with South
African Nursing Council. Knowledge: DoL and Compensation Fund objectives
and business functions. Compensation Fund Services. Directorate or sub-
directorate goals and performance requirements. Nursing legislations and
related legal as well ethical nursing practices. Compensations Fund policies,
procedure and processes. Stakeholders and customers. Customers Service
(Batho Principles). COIDA tariffs. Technical knowledge. PFMA and National
Treasury Regulations. Public Service Act. Skills: Required Technical
Proficiency. Business Writing Skills. Required IT Skills. Data Capturing. Data
and record management. Telephone Skills and Etiquette.
DUTIES : Provide advice and recommendation in the acceptance of liability. Recommend
the approval of medical Accounts. Provide medical advice in the processing of
occupational injuries claims. Determine PD (Permanent Disability) and TTD
(Total Temporary Disability). Assess medical accounts on occupational injuries
claims and OD Medical accounts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SA Mchunu Tel No: (031) 336 1692 (Durban)
22
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Durban Labour Centre, PO Box 10074, Marine Parade, 4056
Or hand deliver at Govt Buildings, Masonic Grove, Durban, 4001. For Durban
Labour Centre Online Application: Jobs-KZN7@labour.gov.za.
POST 25/23 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFFICER PES (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Bethlehem- Ref No: HR4/4/8/1008(X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kroonstad-Ref No: HR4/4/8/1009(X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Phuthaditjhaba- Ref No: HR4/4/8/1010(X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Zastron- Ref No: HR4/4/8/1011(X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric Certificate. No experience. Knowledge: Analysing &
Interpreting Information (Data Analytics), Knowledge of relevant regulations,
laws and legislation, Financial Risk Management and Control, Departmental
policies and procedures, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Compensation
for Occupational and Injury Diseases Act, OHS Act and Regulations, Inspector
Appointment Certificate, Inspectors Card, Public Financial Management Act
(PFMA). Skills: Analysing & Interpreting Information (Data Analytics),
Employers Assessment and Auditing, Revision of Assessment, People
Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Stakeholder Development &
Relations, Programme/ Project Planning & Management, Facilitation.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work-seekers on ESSA. Render registration
services of work and learning opportunities. Refer work seeker for Employment
Counselling services. Provide administrative support with the placement of
work seekers in work and learning opportunities. Render general administrative
duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Lelope Tel No: (056) 215 1812 (Kroonstad)
Mr T Moholi Tel No: (058) 303 5293/ (058) 713 0373 (Bethlehem &
Phuthaditjhaba)
Mr C van Niekerk Tel No: (051) 673 1471 (Zastron)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs5@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Males, African Females, African with Disabilities,
Coloured Males, Coloured Females, Coloured with Disabilities, White Males
and White Females.
POST 25/24 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES (X5
POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/6/6 (X2 Posts)
Ulundi Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/6/7 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Batho Pele principles,
Departmental Policies and Procedures, Treasury Regulations. Skills: Verbal
and written communication, Interpersonal Relations, Problem Solving,
Computer Literacy, Analytical, Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : To render Supply Chain Management Function in a Labour Centre Daily.
Provide a Finance and office management service to the Labour Centre Daily.
Render a Human Resource Management. Responsible for training and
performance activities in a Labour Centre Daily. Responsible for the records
management in a Labour Centre Daily.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SA Mchunu Tel No: (031) 336 1692 (Durban)
Mr TJ Nkosi Tel No: (035) 879 8824 (Ulundi)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Durban Labour Centre, PO Box 10074, Marine Parade, 4056
Or hand deliver at Govt Buildings, Masonic Grove, Durban, 4001.
Deputy Director: Ulundi Labour Centre, P/Bag X56, Ulundi, 3838 or hand
deliver at Unit A, Wombe Street, Ulundi, 3838.
For Durban Labour Centre Online Application: Jobs-KZN7@labour.gov.za
For Ulundi Labour Centre Online Application: Jobs-KZN3@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to African Male, Indian male, White Male and
White females,
23
POST 25/25 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (X7
POSTS)
(Three (3) Year Contract)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mmabatho Ref No: HR4/4/07/ (X3 Posts)
Provincial Office: Eastern Cape Ref No: HR4/4/1/16 (X4 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. No experience required. Knowledge:
PERSAL, HR information management systems, knowledge of registry duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data and operate computer, working
knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service, knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the
working environment, understanding of the work in registry. Skills:
Communication, Computer literacy, Innovative/Creative, Presentation, Report
writing, Time management, Organizing and Planning, Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Implement human resource administration practices (Recruitment and
Selection). Implement conditions of service (Leave, Housing, Medical, Injury
on Duty, Long Service Recognition, Overtime, Relocation, Pension,
Allowances, PILIR or etc.). Facilitate performance management function.
Address human resource administration enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Mokoena Tel No: (018) 387 8100
Mr TM Ramatsetse Tel No: (043) 701 3000
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X2040, Mmabatho, 2735 or
hand deliver at Provident House, University Drive, Mmabatho or email: Jobs-
HRCLERK-NW@labour.gov.za
Acting Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9005, East London,
5209 or hand deliver at No 3 Hill Street, East London. Email: Jobs-
EC9@labour.gov.za
POST 25/26 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/7/77
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Senior Certificate and Grade C Security Certificate (PSIRA). Twelve
(12) months security experience. Knowledge: Access to Public Premises and
Vehicles Act. Evacuation procedures. Minimum Information Security
Standards. Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority (PSIRA) Procedures.
Batho Pele Principles. Public Service Regulations Act. Departmental Policies
and Procedures. Skills: Verbal and written communication. Interpersonal
Relations. Problem Solving. Listening. Computer Literacy. Planning and
Organising. Analytical.
DUTIES : Control access in and out of the Labour Centre and Provincial Office. Secure
the flow of information and assets within the Labour Centre and Provincial
Office. Conduct security patrols of the building and offices to ensure the safety
of employees and clients. Conduct internal investigations and enforce security
rules and regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mashibini Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Finance, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 or hand
deliver at Labour Building, Corner Hofmeyer Avenue and Beatty Street,
Emalahleni, 1035. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-
SEC1@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Males, Indian Females, White Males,
White Females and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
24
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION & TRAINING
(Port Elizabeth TVET College)
(Maluti TVET College)
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/27 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS REF
NO: PS01/2026DHET
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth TVET College (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Incumbent should have a relevant Senior Certificate / Grade 12/ NCV
Certificate (Level 4). National Diploma (NQF level6)/ Degree in Information
Management, Computing or relevant qualification. The candidate must have a
minimum of three (3) to five (5) years’ experience at supervisory level on salary
level 7 or 8 in Information Technology or any relevant knowledge. Knowledge
of policies and governance environment of TVET Colleges including
knowledge of the TVETMIS system, annual reporting requirements by the
Higher Education Institutions. Knowledge and understanding of Information
Management. Knowledge, understanding, application and interpretation of
office management, Adapt IT, COLTECH, data warehouse and IT prescripts.
Administrative, planning and organizing, financial management, report writing,
communication and interpersonal, problem solving, computer literacy,
analytical, client oriented, project management, team leadership, planning and
organizing and people management. Have the following attributes, Client
service focus, integrity, committed, proactive and loyal.
DUTIES : TVET MIS management, capturing and data extraction for the college. Set up
the system in readiness for enrolment and support other processes. Control
the quality of captured data and report if there are errors. Maintain the college
TVET MIS system. Manage the student data. Use various tools, extract data to
facilitate statistical reporting. Interact with service provider regarding upgrades
and request for assistance. Maintain data on student registration. Compile
reports on to management, Submit monthly report on skills & leanership on
monthly basis. Compile, monitor academic examination and staff statistics of
the college and submit reports on quarterly basis to management and DHET.
Compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports as requested. Maintain, capture
and validate inputs captured on ITS student and other related systems. Set up
the student system for registration of students and ensure creditability and
reliability. Maintain the Adapt IT, COLTECH, student system and other related
system. Monitor capturing, quality control, validation, run procedure, create file
and ensure that entries are sent to DHET head office. Management of human,
physical and financial resources. Render management service to the staff.
Ensure completion of performance agreements by all employees in the unit.
Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Chantel Jansen/ Ms Zenia Plaatjies Tel No: (041) 509 6000
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application, quoting the reference number to: The
Office of the Deputy Principal: Corporate Services: Port Elizabeth TVET
College; Erica Central Campus; 1 Richmond Park Drive; Richmond Hill; Port
Elizabeth 6001; Reception Area or post your application to: Private Bag X6040;
Port Elizabeth, 6000 or email to: recruit@pec.edu.za
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on the new approved Z83 Application Form
(dated 1 January 2021) obtainable from the DPSA Website or any Public
Service Department website. The new Z83 Application Form must be fully
completed and duly signed. The Z83 Application Form must be accompanied
by a detailed recently updated comprehensive CV with three (3) contactable
references (provide their contact number and email addresses). Statement of
results to be attached to application. Only shortlisted candidates will be
contacted to submit the required certified documents. Incomplete applications
or applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A
complete set of application documents should be submitted separately for
every post you wish to apply for. Failure to submit the requested documents
will result in your application not being considered. Applicants with foreign
qualifications would be required to submit an evaluation certificate from South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) on or before the day of the interview.
The college reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time.
25
Communication will only be entered into with the shortlisted and successful
candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be subjected to personnel suitability
checks (criminal records, citizenship, and qualification verification). The
suitable candidates will be required to annually disclose their financial interests
and declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements, and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. People with disabilities are encouraged
to apply. All applicants must consider their applications to be unsuccessful if
not contacted within 60 days after the closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 05 August 2026
POST 25/28 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STUDENT REGISTRATION SERVICES REF NO:
PS02/2026DHET
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth TVET College (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Incumbent should have a relevant Senior Certificate / Grade 12/ NCV
Certificate (Level 4). Must be in possession of a recognised (3) three-year
National Diploma (NQF Level 6)/ Degree in Business Administration, Public
Management/Administration or a relevant qualification is essential. A minimum
of three (3) to five (5) years of experience at supervisory on salary level 7 or 8
in an administration environment is required. A valid Code B driver’s license is
compulsory. Experience within the Post-School Education and Training (PSET)
sector will be considered an added advantage. The ideal candidate must
possess sound knowledge of enrolment standard operating procedures, data
capturing procedures, and the use of computerised systems. A clear
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service, as
well as knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures relevant to the working
environment, is expected. The candidate must demonstrate strong report
writing and presentation skills, particularly within the context of public sector
governance. Effective communication, people empowerment, planning and
execution capabilities are essential. Proficiency in MS Word, Excel, and
PowerPoint is required, along with a proven ability to manage change
effectively. Leadership skills, a commitment to quality work, sound human
resource management, and the ability to communicate and lead with integrity
form the foundation of the required values and attitudes for this role.
DUTIES : Manage the administration of the overall student registration process, ensuring
the development, review, and effective implementation of policies and
procedures related to registration, admission, scheduling, and student records.
Facilitate workshops to promote awareness and consistent application of these
policies. Develop and implement marketing strategies aimed at attracting new
student enrolments and oversee the accuracy of registration documentation.
Supervise the management of student data systems, including graduate and
alumni databases, and ensure accurate pre-entry support services such as
financial aid, accommodation, and bursary assistance are available. Provide
student guidance, placement testing, and maintain up-to-date programme
enrolment records. Ensure orientation programmes are conducted across the
college and on campuses, and that student data is accurately captured on the
Information Technology System (ITS). Oversee the administration of student
financial aid and bursary support, ensuring compliance with TVET Bursary
Scheme rules and guidelines. Coordinate and chair financial aid committee
meetings, facilitate funding awards, verify bursary statistics, and monitor
compliance with bursary requirements while identifying and engaging potential
academic sponsors. Administer the management of student learning materials,
including the issuance, collection, and upkeep of textbooks and learning
resources. Manage the coordination of career exhibition services, marketing
college programmes at schools, open days, and exhibitions. Oversee the
management of all human, financial, and other resources within the unit,
ensuring optimal performance and adherence to relevant legislation and
institutional policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Chantel Jansen/ Ms Zenia Plaatjies Tel No: (041) 509 6000
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application, quoting the reference number to: The
Office of the Deputy Principal: Corporate Services: Port Elizabeth TVET
College; Erica Central Campus; 1 Richmond Park Drive; Richmond Hill; Port
26
Elizabeth 6001; Reception Area or post your application to: Private Bag X6040;
Port Elizabeth 6000 or email to: recruit@pec.edu.za
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on the new approved Z83 Application Form
(dated 1 January 2021) obtainable from the DPSA Website or any Public
Service Department website. The new Z83 Application Form must be fully
completed and duly signed. The Z83 Application Form must be accompanied
by a detailed recently updated comprehensive CV with three (3) contactable
references (provide their contact number and email addresses). Statement of
results to be attached to application. Only shortlisted candidates will be
contacted to submit the required certified documents. Incomplete applications
or applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A
complete set of application documents should be submitted separately for
every post you wish to apply for. Failure to submit the requested documents
will result in your application not being considered. Applicants with foreign
qualifications would be required to submit an evaluation certificate from South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) on or before the day of the interview.
The college reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time.
Communication will only be entered into with the shortlisted and successful
candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be subjected to personnel suitability
checks (criminal records, citizenship, and qualification verification). The
suitable candidates will be required to annually disclose their financial interests
and declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. People with disabilities are encouraged
to apply. All applicants must consider their applications to be unsuccessful if
not contacted within 60 days after the closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 05 August 2026
POST 25/29 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT AND
IMPLEMENTATION (OCCUPATIONAL PROGRAMME) REF NO:
PS03/2026DHET
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth TVET College (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Incumbent should have a relevant Senior Certificate / Grade 12/ NCV
Certificate (Level 4). Must be in possession of a recognised (3) three-year
National Diploma (NQF Level 6)/ Degree in Engineering/ Business Studies or
related field. A minimum of three (3) to five (5) in the years supervisory
experience at salary level 7 or 8 in the relevant field is required. The candidate
should have strong understanding of occupational curriculum development,
implementation, and assessment strategies. Knowledge of project
management principles and strategic planning. sound knowledge of the SETA
and CET Act, Skills Development Act, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, and Labour Relations Act. An understanding of the Public TVET
sector, its regulatory and legislative framework, and ethical standards is
essential, while familiarity with the Higher Education sector will be an added
advantage. Must demonstrate strong leadership, management, and financial
oversight abilities, as well as skills in decision-making, conflict resolution,
human resources, and people management. Excellent time management,
communication, presentation, and facilitation skills, along with advanced
computer literacy and analytical capabilities, are also critical. A high level of job
knowledge, technical competence, and a commitment to delivering quality work
are essential attributes for this role.
DUTIES : Plan, manage, and monitor the implementation of occupational programs,
learnerships and short skills programmes, ensuring all administrative functions
related to ongoing programmes are efficiently managed. Conduct regular
monitoring of programme progress, including site visits where necessary, to
ensure effective delivery. Establish and sustain strategic partnerships with both
the public and private sectors to secure funding for learnerships and short skills
programmes and facilitate work placements for learners requiring practical
experience. Manage seta funding. Drive programme accreditation applications
with all relevant SETAs/ QCTO, aligning these with industry needs and
community demands as identified through Skills Audits of the respective
Municipalities. Oversee the development of project plans, including milestones,
resource requirements and timeframes. Compile the project budgets and
27
manage all related expenditure. Oversee the sectional budget, managing
payments to training providers, facilitators, and learner stipends, as well as
procurement of stationery, PPE, and work equipment. Proactively identify and
manage risks that could impact the smooth running of the unit, such as learner
dropouts linked to stipend delays, and ensure timely submission of monthly
reports and quarterly reports. to maintain transparency and accountability.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Chantel Jansen/ Ms Zenia Plaatjies Tel No: (041) 509 6000
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application, quoting the reference number to: The
Office of the Deputy Principal: Corporate Services: Port Elizabeth TVET
College; Erica Central Campus; 1 Richmond Park Drive; Richmond Hill; Port
Elizabeth 6001; Reception Area or post your application to: Private Bag X6040;
Port Elizabeth 6000 or email to: recruit@pec.edu.za
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on the new approved Z83 Application Form
(dated 1 January 2021) obtainable from the DPSA Website or any Public
Service Department website. The new Z83 Application Form must be fully
completed and duly signed. The Z83 Application Form must be accompanied
by a detailed recently updated comprehensive CV with three (3) contactable
references (provide their contact number and email addresses). Statement of
results to be attached to application. Only shortlisted candidates will be
contacted to submit the required certified documents. Incomplete applications
or applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A
complete set of application documents should be submitted separately for
every post you wish to apply for. Failure to submit the requested documents
will result in your application not being considered. Applicants with foreign
qualifications would be required to submit an evaluation certificate from South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) on or before the day of the interview.
The college reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time.
Communication will only be entered into with the shortlisted and successful
candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be subjected to personnel suitability
checks (criminal records, citizenship, and qualification verification). The
suitable candidates will be required to annually disclose their financial interests
and declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. People with disabilities are encouraged
to apply. All applicants must consider their applications to be unsuccessful if
not contacted within 60 days after the closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 05 August 2026
POST 25/30 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CURRICULUM IMPLEMENTATION (MINISTERIAL
PROGRAMMES) REF NO: PS04/2026DHET
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth TVET College (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Incumbent should have a relevant Senior Certificate / Grade 12/ NCV
Certificate (Level 4). Must be in possession of a recognised (3) three-year
National Diploma (NQF Level 6)/ Degree in Education or related field. A
minimum of three (3) to five (5) in the years supervisory experience at salary
level 7 or 8 within an education, teaching, and learning environment is required.
n the relevant field is required. The incumbent should have in-depth knowledge
of the PSET and CET Acts, teaching and learning methodologies, as well as
the Skills Development Act, Public Service Act and Regulations, Labour
Relations Act, and the Education Act. A comprehensive understanding of the
Public TVET sector and its regulatory framework, along with familiarity with the
broader Higher Education sector, is essential. The candidate must demonstrate
strong administrative, planning, and organisational skills, with proven abilities
in financial and project management, report writing, and analytical thinking.
Excellent communication, interpersonal, and problem-solving skills, along with
a client-focused approach, are critical. Proficiency in computer literacy, as well
as experience in team leadership and people management, is required. A
strong commitment to job knowledge, high-quality work, effective
communication, leadership, and human resource management is key to
success in this role.
DUTIES : Oversee the development, implementation, and monitoring of academic and
curriculum policies to ensure alignment with national directives. Support the
introduction of new programmes, qualifications, and revisions to the National
28
Curriculum (Vocational), and coordinate policy updates with SAQA accordingly.
Manage the review and implementation of ICASS guidelines for both all
assessments, including the development of classroom management policies to
enhance curriculum delivery. Monitor and evaluate the conduct of assessments
across all programmes and provide comprehensive reports to college
executive management and relevant oversight bodies. Ensure the coordinated
and consistent delivery of curriculum across all college delivery sites,
promoting best practice teaching in collaboration with campus managers.
Provide academic management services by offering ongoing support to
lecturing staff, planning for quality teaching and learning, assisting with student
admissions, and ensuring enrolment targets are met. Facilitate access to
career guidance to support students in making informed programme
selections. Guide the improvement of curriculum content and delivery through
active engagement with public and private industry stakeholders. Analyse
academic results, develop intervention plans for critical subjects, and
coordinate classroom visits to support ICASS and ISAT compliance. Oversee
the provision of appropriate learning materials by coordinating development
activities, identifying material and resource requirements, and managing the
dissemination of learning tools. Effectively manage all human, financial, and
physical resources allocated to the unit to ensure optimal academic
performance and service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Chantel Jansen/ Ms Zenia Plaatjies Tel No: (041) 509 6000
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application, quoting the reference number to: The
Office of the Deputy Principal: Corporate Services: Port Elizabeth TVET
College; Erica Central Campus; 1 Richmond Park Drive; Richmond Hill; Port
Elizabeth 6001; Reception Area or post your application to: Private Bag X6040;
Port Elizabeth 6000 or email to: recruit@pec.edu.za
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on the new approved Z83 Application Form
(dated 1 January 2021) obtainable from the DPSA Website or any Public
Service Department website. The new Z83 Application Form must be fully
completed and duly signed. The Z83 Application Form must be accompanied
by a detailed recently updated comprehensive CV with three (3) contactable
references (provide their contact number and email addresses). Statement of
results to be attached to the application. Only shortlisted candidates will be
contacted to submit the required certified documents. Incomplete applications
or applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A
complete set of application documents should be submitted separately for
every post you wish to apply for. Failure to submit the requested documents
will result in your application not being considered. Applicants with foreign
qualifications would be required to submit an evaluation certificate from South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) on or before the day of the interview.
The college reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time.
Communication will only be entered into with the shortlisted and successful
candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be subjected to personnel suitability
checks (criminal records, citizenship, and qualification verification). The
suitable candidates will be required to annually disclose their financial interests
and declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. People with disabilities are encouraged
to apply. All applicants must consider their applications to be unsuccessful if
not contacted within 60 days after the closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 05 August 2026
POST 25/31 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN AND ASSET MANAGEMENT REF
NO: PS05/2026DHET
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth TVET College (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Incumbent should have a relevant Senior Certificate / Grade 12/ NCV
Certificate (Level 4). Applicants must be in possession of a recognised National
Diploma (NQF Level 6)/ Degree recognised by SAQA in Supply Chain
Management, Logistics Management or a related field. Three (3) to Five (5)
years’ experience at supervisory level on a salary level 7 or 8 in Supply Chain
Management, specifically in tender processes and logistics management, is
required. The candidate must have in-depth knowledge of the Public Finance
29
Management Act (PFMA), Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act
(PPPFA), Treasury Regulations, the Broad-Based Black Economic
Empowerment (BBBEE) Act, and the Supply Chain Management Framework.
A comprehensive understanding of the entire supply chain cycle, including
demand planning, acquisition, logistics, asset disposal, and supplier
relationship management, is essential, along with knowledge of asset
management practices and National Treasury guidelines. The ideal candidate
must demonstrate advanced administrative, planning, and organisational skills,
as well as competencies in financial management, report writing, and project
coordination. Strong analytical thinking, problem-solving abilities, and excellent
communication and interpersonal skills are critical. Proficiency in relevant
computer applications, client-focused service delivery, leadership, and
effective team and people management are expected. High levels of integrity,
professionalism, technical expertise, and a commitment to service excellence
are key attributes required for this role.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the development,
implementation, review, and monitoring of Supply Chain Management (SCM)
policies in line with relevant legislation and regulations. This includes ensuring
effective provisioning, procurement, stock control, and reporting processes,
while conducting policy awareness across the College. The incumbent will
oversee the procurement of goods and services, ensuring compliance with
SCM procedures, timely authorisation of official orders, alignment of
procurement plans with the College’s budget, and proper documentation of all
purchasing activities. The role also includes the administration of demand and
acquisition management, coordinating tender processes, supporting bid
specification, evaluation, and adjudication committees, and ensuring that
procurement is aligned with preferential procurement objectives. The candidate
will further be responsible for managing the College’s asset portfolio by
maintaining an accurate and up-to-date asset register, ensuring the barcoding
of assets, verifying asset movement, and facilitating asset disposals in line with
policies. In addition, the incumbent will oversee the development and
maintenance of a secure and current supplier database, monitor supplier
compliance, and ensure records are properly maintained. The role also entails
the management and supervision of staff within the unit, ensuring performance
agreements are in place, and supporting staff development in accordance with
institutional performance management systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Chantel Jansen/ Ms Zenia Plaatjies Tel No: (041) 509 6000
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application, quoting the reference number to: The
Office of the Deputy Principal: Corporate Services: Port Elizabeth TVET
College; Erica Central Campus; 1 Richmond Park Drive; Richmond Hill; Port
Elizabeth 6001; Reception Area or post your application to: Private Bag X6040;
Port Elizabeth 6000 or email to: recruit@pec.edu.za
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on the new approved Z83 Application Form
(dated 1 January 2021) obtainable from the DPSA Website or any Public
Service Department website. The new Z83 Application Form must be fully
completed and duly signed. The Z83 Application Form must be accompanied
by a detailed, recently updated, comprehensive CV with three (3) contactable
references (provide their contact number and email addresses). Statement of
results to be attached to the application. Only shortlisted candidates will be
contacted to submit the required certified documents. Incomplete applications
or applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A
complete set of application documents should be submitted separately for
every post you wish to apply for. Failure to submit the requested documents
will result in your application not being considered. Applicants with foreign
qualifications would be required to submit an evaluation certificate from South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) on or before the day of the interview.
The college reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time.
Communication will only be entered into with the shortlisted and successful
candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be subjected to personnel suitability
checks (criminal records, citizenship, and qualification verification). The
suitable candidates will be required to annually disclose their financial interests
and declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. People with disabilities are encouraged
30
to apply. All applicants must consider their applications to be unsuccessful if
not contacted within 60 days after the closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 05 August 2026
POST 25/32 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO:
PS06/2026DHET
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth TVET College (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Incumbent should have a relevant Senior Certificate / Grade 12/ NCV
Certificate (Level 4). A recognised three-year National Diploma (NQF Level 6)/
Degree in Financial Management or a related qualification is required. The
candidate must have a minimum of three (3) to five (5) years’ experience at
supervisory level on salary level 7 or 8 in a financial environment. The ideal
applicant must possess advanced knowledge of the Post-School Education
and Training (PSET) and Continuing Education and Training (CET) Acts, the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), GRAP (Generally Recognised
Accounting Practice), Treasury Regulations, the Skills Development Act, Public
Service Regulations, Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act, and the
National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) along with associated
legislation. Proficiency in financial management systems is essential.
Candidates must demonstrate advanced administrative, planning, and
financial management skills, with strong capabilities in report writing,
interpersonal communication, and problem-solving. Core competencies
include computer literacy, analytical thinking, client orientation, and effective
project and people management. A high level of professionalism, leadership,
and commitment to delivering quality work are vital for success in this role.
DUTIES : Render effective financial accounting services in the areas of revenue
management, expenditure control, reporting, and supervision. Oversee the
collection and recording of revenue, including cashier, banking, and electronic
payment functions, ensuring compliance with relevant financial prescripts and
procedures. Monitor the receipt and safekeeping of all monies, bank
reconciliations, allocation of electronic payments, and the safeguarding of
source documents and face-value items. Oversee debt management
processes, including the identification, accurate recording, and recovery of
debts owed to the department, liaising with debtors in complex cases, and
securing necessary approvals for repayment arrangements. Monitor revenue
against budget, develop corrective measures when required, and ensure the
preparation of accurate disclosure notes and financial supporting information.
Manage expenditure processes related to compensation of employees,
including payroll transaction verification, authorisation of reimbursements and
third-party payments, and reconciliation between payroll (PERSAL) and the
accounting system (BAS). Oversee expenditure on goods and services by
verifying source documents, ensuring quality assurance, managing creditor
reconciliations, and ensuring alignment with budgets. Manage transfers and
subsidies by verifying eligibility and compliance with financial legislation and
authorising related payments. Coordinate financial reporting activities,
including the analysis of expenditure reports and the compilation of interim and
annual reports on conditional grants. Ensure the safekeeping of all financial
documentation. Provide supervision and leadership to staff, including work
allocation, quality control, performance management, training and
development, and the implementation of efficient work systems to ensure
effective and compliant financial operations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Chantel Jansen/ Ms Zenia Plaatjies Tel No: (041) 509 6000
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application, quoting the reference number to: The
Office of the Deputy Principal: Corporate Services: Port Elizabeth TVET
College; Erica Central Campus; 1 Richmond Park Drive; Richmond Hill; Port
Elizabeth 6001; Reception Area or post your application to: Private Bag X6040;
Port Elizabeth 6000 or email to: recruit@pec.edu.za
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on the new approved Z83 Application Form
(dated 1 January 2021) obtainable from the DPSA Website or any Public
Service Department website. The new Z83 Application Form must be fully
completed and duly signed. The Z83 Application Form must be accompanied
by a detailed recently updated comprehensive CV with three (3) contactable
references (provide their contact number and email addresses). Statement of
results to be attached to the application. Only shortlisted candidates will be
contacted to submit the required certified documents. Incomplete applications
31
or applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A
complete set of application documents should be submitted separately for
every post you wish to apply for. Failure to submit the requested documents
will result in your application not being considered. Applicants with foreign
qualifications would be required to submit an evaluation certificate from South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) on or before the day of the interview.
The college reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time.
Communication will only be entered into with the shortlisted and successful
candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be subjected to personnel suitability
checks (criminal records, citizenship, and qualification verification). The
suitable candidates will be required to annually disclose their financial interests
and declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements, and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. People with disabilities are encouraged
to apply. All applicants must consider their applications to be unsuccessful if
not contacted within 60 days after the closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 05 August 2026
POST 25/33 : SENIOR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS OFFICER REF NO:
PS07/2026DHET
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth TVET College (Central Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Incumbent should have a relevant Senior Certificate / Grade 12/ NCV
Certificate (Level 4). Applicants should be in possession of a recognised three
(3) year National Diploma (NQF Level 6)/ Degree in Information Management,
Data Management, or an equivalent qualification. A minimum of two (2) to three
(3) years of relevant working experience in data management, the TVET MIS
environment, or a related field is required. The ideal candidate must have a
sound knowledge of the policies and governance framework applicable to
TVET Colleges, including an understanding of the TVETMIS system and the
annual reporting requirements for Higher Education Institutions. In-depth
knowledge of information management principles, as well as the application
and interpretation of office management systems such as COLTECH, data
warehouse systems, and IT-related prescripts, is essential. The candidate must
demonstrate strong administrative, planning, and organisational abilities, with
proven experience in financial management, report writing, and problem-
solving. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, along with analytical
thinking and computer literacy, are required. Additional competencies include
a client-oriented approach, project management, team leadership, and the
ability to effectively manage people and processes within a dynamic and
regulated environment. Key values and attributes required for this role include
a commitment to service excellence, integrity, loyalty, proactivity, and a strong
sense of responsibility and professionalism.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the effective management of
the TVET Management Information System (MIS) across the college. Key
responsibilities include setting up the system for enrolment, ensuring timely
and accurate data capturing, performing regular validations, and maintaining
data quality standards. This role requires managing student data, extracting
statistical information for reporting purposes, and coordinating with system
service providers for upgrades and technical support. The incumbent will
oversee the accurate capture of approved enrolments and registrations within
specified deadlines. Additional duties include compiling and submitting weekly,
monthly, and quarterly reports on student statistics, skills programmes,
learnerships, examinations, and staffing to both management and the
Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET). The candidate will also
maintain and manage the Coltech/ ITS student system and related platforms,
ensuring alignment with DHET requirements through rigorous quality control
and validation processes. Oversight of academic system functions such as
timetabling, assessment marks, class groupings, census dates, and curriculum
records is required, along with the application of standard calculation criteria.
The role further involves monitoring the administration and timely renewal of
MIS licenses, ensuring the continuous efficiency of all student information
systems. Effective management of human, physical, and financial resources
32
within the unit is essential, including staff supervision, performance
management, and the completion of performance agreements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Chantel Jansen/ Ms Zenia Plaatjies Tel No: (041) 509 6000
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application, quoting the reference number to: The
Office of the Deputy Principal: Corporate Services: Port Elizabeth TVET
College; Erica Central Campus; 1 Richmond Park Drive; Richmond Hill; Port
Elizabeth 6001; Reception Area or post your application to: Private Bag X6040;
Port Elizabeth 6000 or email to: recruit@pec.edu.za
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on the new approved Z83 Application Form
(dated 1 January 2021) obtainable from the DPSA Website or any Public
Service Department website. The new Z83 Application Form must be fully
completed and duly signed. The Z83 Application Form must be accompanied
by a detailed, recently updated, comprehensive CV with three (3) contactable
references (provide their contact number and email addresses). Statement of
results to be attached to the application. Only shortlisted candidates will be
contacted to submit the required certified documents. Incomplete applications
or applications received after the closing date will not be considered. A
complete set of application documents should be submitted separately for
every post you wish to apply for. Failure to submit the requested documents
will result in your application not being considered. Applicants with foreign
qualifications would be required to submit an evaluation certificate from South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) on or before the day of the interview.
The college reserves the right to withdraw the posts at any time.
Communication will only be entered into with the shortlisted and successful
candidates. All shortlisted candidates may be subjected to personnel suitability
checks (criminal records, citizenship, and qualification verification). The
suitable candidates will be required to annually disclose their financial interests
and declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. People with disabilities are encouraged
to apply. All applicants must consider their applications to be unsuccessful if
not contacted within 60 days after the closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 05 August 2026
POST 25/34 : TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS FACILITATORS REF NO:
MALUTITVET/HARR/TF01/2026 (X3 POSTS)
(Nature of Appointment: 12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Harrismith Campus
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Grade 12/Standard 10 /NCV Level 4. Recognised
National Diploma / Degree in Transport and Logistics: Competencies and
attributes: Qualified Assessor. Qualified Moderator. SACE Registration.
Computer Literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint). Unendorsed Valid
Driver’s License. Experience in facilitating skills programmes.
DUTIES : Plan, prepare and deliver lectures to students. Set, moderate and administer
assessment tasks as per College Assessment Schedule. Mark, moderate and
compile mark sheets as per the College Academic Calendar and College
Assessment Schedule. Examination invigilation. Compile and keep up to date
POAs, Subject files and student POEs as required. Handle all students related
administrative duties. Verification of ICASS marks. Monitor and keep correct
records of student’s attendance and performance records. Carry out all other
duties related to the post. Facilitating
ENQUIRIES : Ms NJ Ntsela Tel No: (058) 303 1732
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be posted or hand delivered to Human Resource
Management: Maluti TVET College, Corporate Office, Private Bag X33,
Bethlehem, 9700 or hand delivered at Maluti TVET College: Corporate Office,
Corner High & Broster Street, Bethlehem, 9700. Email applications can be
forwarded to hrrecruitment@malutitvet.co.za in PDF format and as one
attachment. Indicate the relevant reference number and job title on the subject
line.
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on a
Z83 form (effective from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service
department as well as Maluti TVET College Corporate Office or from Maluti
TVET College Official website www.malutitvet.co.za. The Z83 form must be
33
signed, initialed and dated. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must
be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the completed Z83
form and a detailed curriculum vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report. Immigrants should apply for work
permits before assumption of duty. Applicants who do not comply with the
abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received
late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Maluti TVET College is an equal
opportunity, affirmative action employer. Candidates whose appointments
promote representativity in terms of race, gender and disability will receive
preference. People with disabilities are encouraged to apply. NB: Please
consider your application as unsuccessful should you not be contacted within
60 days from the closing date of this advertisement. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). Successful candidates may be
required to work at other places as may reasonably be required by the
Department and the College. Maluti TVET College reserves the right to
withdraw any of the mentioned advert.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026 @13:00
34
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) seeks to hire patriotic, professional, passionate and talented
individuals to form part of a new leadership team, equipped with the right skills to facilitate the
transformation of Home Affairs into a digital-first, world-class organisation. If you are committed to
delivering on the Medium-Term Development Plan’s priorities through digital transformation, ascribe to
the Department’s shared value set, have what it takes to deliver on the needs of DHA Clients with the
highest levels of dignity, integrity and innovation, and your credentials meet the requirements of any of
the following positions, kindly respond before the closing date. The DHA is a merit-based, equal
opportunity and affirmative action employer. In line with its commitment to promoting representivity, in
the filling of entry-level positions preference may be given to locally based candidates on grounds of
affordability as well as to (unemployed) youth and the DHA’s interns and learners who have successfully
completed their respective skills development programmes. In the filling of all posts, preference may be
afforded to persons with disabilities, and in respect of SMS-level posts, to women. Persons falling in
these categories and who meet the post requirements are preferred.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent
to the correct address specified at the bottom of the posts, on or before the
closing date, accompanied by a fully completed Application for Employment
Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number and job title, and a
comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy), job title, duties
performed and exit reason for each employment period to be considered, as
well as the details of at least two contactable employment references (as recent
as possible), regardless of online or manual submission. Where a valid Driver's
License and a Professional Driving Permit (PDP) is a requirement, this must
be indicated on the CV. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Shortlisted candidates will also be required to submit a copy of their ID
document, a valid driver’s license (if specified as a job requirement), relevant
educational qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic Transcripts of
completed qualifications, and Acting letters as directed. Furthermore,
applicants who possess (a) foreign qualification(s), are required to submit the
evaluated results of such qualifications, as received from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA); for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity, will be subjected to an interview, various relevant
tests and assessments, and employment suitability checks (credit, criminal,
citizenship, qualifications, and employment references including verification of
exit reasons, and conducting business with State). Once appointed, serving of
a prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a security clearance
appropriate to the post, will be required. Correspondence between the
Department and candidates will be limited to shortlisted candidates, only. The
DHA complies with the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4
of 2013). Applicants’ personal information will be used for recruitment
purposes, retained where required for audit, and safeguarded against
unauthorised disclosure, except where legally required. Submission of an
application constitutes consent to such processing.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/35 : SENIOR RESEARCHER: RESEARCH MANAGEMENT REF NO: HRMC
52/26/1
Directorate: Strategy and Institution Performance
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
35
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Social Sciences, Development Studies
Public Management or Public Administration at NQF level 7 recognized by
SAQA is required. A post graduate degree would be an advantage. 3 years’
experience in a Junior Management / Assistant Director level and Research
environment is required. Knowledge of the departmental Legislations and
Prescripts. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Prescripts and
Legislations. Research Design and Methodologies. Knowledge of the Public
Service Regulatory Framework. Excellent abilities and experience in project
management, project optimisation, and the use of online systems. A valid
drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills
and competencies: People Management and Empowerment. Service Delivery
Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Manpower forecasting and
planning. Financial Management. Programme and Project Management.
Decision-Making Skills. Budget Administration. Financial Risk Management.
Problem-solving and analysis. Influencing and networking. Business report
writing. Research Methodology. Interpersonal Relations. Strong Analytical
skills. Facilitation skills. Negotiation skills. Planning and Organising skill.
Presentation Skills. Negotiation skills. Communication Skills. Financial
Management skills. Computer Literacy. Patriotism, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Execute, Manage and Conduct research and Data Analytics in
the department. Lead, plan, and conduct research activities that support
decision-making and inform DHA’s policy strategies. Conceptualise and
develop research proposals/project scope. Conduct quantitative and
qualitative research from inception to completion, aligned with departmental
priorities. Conduct statistical analyses, interpret research findings and prepare
comprehensive research reports. Ensure accurate data collection, storage,
and analysis. Manage the capturing of data, cleaning and preparation of
datasets. Ensure rigorous methodological, ethical, and analytical standards in
qualitative and quantitative research. Develop research dissemination plans for
all research projects and communicate research outcomes to relevant internal
stakeholders and business units. Introduce and utilize digital tools, data
analytics platforms, and emerging technologies to improve research
processes. Drive innovation in data collection, visualisation, and dissemination
(e.g., dashboards, AI-assisted analysis). Manage the research repository and
provide advisory services in the department. Develop and implementation of
policy and procedure, directive acts and regulations. Implement effective risk
and compliance in line with the relevant legislative prescripts. Ensure effective
and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources within
the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and compliance with
regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Raziya Tel No: (012) 406 4155
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ipsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 25/36 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: AMENDMENTS AND RECTIFICATIONS REF NO:
HRMC 29/26/2
Directorate: Amendments and Rectification
This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply.
SALARY : R605 742 - R713 535 per annum (Level 10), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management, Public
Management, Administration or Business Management, at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience as a Supervisor in
operations in a client or customer services environment is required. Knowledge
of Births and Deaths Registration Act and Regulations on the Registration of
Births and Deaths. Knowledge of Departmental Legislation and Prescripts
(Civic Services). Knowledge of the Human Resource Regulatory Framework.
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of
Public Service Prescripts and Legislations. Knowledge of policy development
and government protocol. Knowledge of the South African Constitution.
Comprehensive understanding of legislation, policies, and prescripts governing
public administration. Understanding of the Public Finance Management Act
36
(PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. A valid drivers’ license is an added
advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership Execution. Strategic
Planning and Strategic Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment.
Financial Management. Honesty and Integrity. Programme and Project
Management. Change Management. Communication. Knowledge
Management. Problem Solving and Analysis. Business Report Writing.
Influencing and Networking. Planning and Organising. Accountability. Data
Analysis. Policy Analysis and Interpretation. Process Analysis and
Improvement. Corruption Measures and Principles. Presentation skills.
Interpersonal skill. Communication skill. Planning and Organising skill.
Computer literacy skill. Decision making skill. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Facilitate and oversee the processing of applications for the
amendment and rectification of personal particulars recorded on the NPR.
Ensure all amendment and rectification processes comply with legislative
prescripts, regulations, and DHA policies. Implement and monitor quality
assurance and verification controls to prevent errors, duplications, and irregular
amendments. Coordinate service delivery between front-office and back-office
environments to ensure timely and accurate finalisation of cases. Manage and
resolve complex, sensitive, or escalated amendment and rectification cases.
Oversee the utilisation of automated systems and digital platforms to support
data integrity and efficient processing. Maintain accurate records, dashboards,
and performance reports on amendment and rectification transactions.
Escalate all irregularities and suspected fraudulent activities to management
or Counter Corruption and Security in accordance with prescribed procedures.
Stakeholder Engagement and Intergovernmental Coordination. Policy
Development, Governance, and Operational Oversight. Risk Management,
Compliance, and Quality Assurance. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms R Masemola Tel No: (012) 406 4156
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 25/37 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONTINUOUS AUDIT REF NO: HRMC 52/26/3
Directorate: Information Systems Audit
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in computer science, Information Systems or
Internal Auditing at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA. Three (3) years'
experience at an SAO / Supervisory in an internal auditing environment is
required. Functional knowledge of data analysis tools such as ACL, Arbutus
and other relevant software. Knowledge of the Protection of information Act 84
of 1982 and the Promotion of Access to information Act 2 of 2000. Knowledge
of the Public Service Regulations Act. Knowledge of international Internal Audit
Standards. Knowledge of the South African Constitution. Knowledge of
Professional Standards for the Practice of Internal Auditing. Knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act and National Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of Finance and Accounting Systems and Practices. Knowledge of
King IV report and governance principles. Knowledge of the Institute of Internal
Auditors South Africa (IIA SA) & Global prescripts. Required skills and
competencies: Client orientation and customer focus. Business continuity
Financial Administration. Project Management. Decision making. Attention to
detail. Influencing and Networking Business Report Writing Problem solving
and analysis. Conflict management and resolution. Knowledge of CAATs.
Presentation Skills. Interpersonal Skills. Communication Skills. Planning and
Organising Skills. Computer literacy Skills. Decision Making Skills.
Presentation Skills. Strong Data Analytical skills. Computer and digital literacy
skills. Decision Making skills. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Implement Continuous Audit objectives within the directorate.
Ensure the execution of the Information Technology audit plan, including audit
37
inverse and overseeing timely execution of the plan. Identify what must be
done to make effective use of technology in support of audit and highlights
areas that require further attention. Verify financial transactions and their
supporting documents, carried out daily or on fixed interval basis. Ensure that
objectives and policies for the computer application have been put in writing
and approved by senior management. Monitor the Application Performance
Measures (APMs) by making sure they have been identified and an APM
strategy is in place. Ensure that Staff receive adequate training and supervision
to all personnel responsible for performing control procedures. Monitor the
Technology audit projects, including System Development reviews, change
control management, Database controls, Contingency planning, disaster
recovery reviews, operating systems reviews, application reviews, and general
controls. Ensure follow-ups on continuous audit recommendations. Participate
in special projects to improve information system controls and management
information. Manage the continuous improvement of IT audit processes and
practices. Provide consultation services to the business in line with the IIA
standards. Establish, maintain and ensure a good working relationship with the
department and relevant stakeholders. Implementation of policies, procedures,
directives, acts and regulations. Ensure risk and compliance management.
Ensure effective risk and compliance management. Ensure effective and
efficient management of human, physical and financial resources within the
Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Raziya Tel No: (012) 406 4155
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ipsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 25/38 : DISTRICT INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OFFICER REF NO: HRMC
52/26/4
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09), (a salary package)
CENTRE : Provincial Manager’s Office: Gauteng: Sedibeng
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology, Computer Science,
Information Systems, Information and Communication Technology, Computer
Engineering at an NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA. ITIL Foundation
Certificate will be an added advantage. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
Information Technology environment is required. Experience in desktop,
network, server and application support. Experience in wide range of computer
systems support. Knowledge and application of the GITO Guidelines and
Prescripts. Sound knowledge of Minimum Information Security Standards.
Sound knowledge of the Protection of Information 84 of 1982 and the
Promotion of Access to Information Act 2 of 2000. Knowledge of the State
Information Technology Agency Act 88 of 1998. Knowledge of the Public
Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of Departmental legislation and
prescripts. Knowledge of Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL).
A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to work extended hours. Required skills
and competencies: Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and
Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment. Programme and
Project Management. Conflict Management and Resolution. Influencing and
networking. Attention to detail. Process analysis and improvement. Conflict
resolution and management. Team working. Presentation Skills. Interpersonal
Skills. Communication Skills. Planning and Organising. Computer literacy.
Decision Making. Report Writing. Digital Transformation Skills. Patriotism,
Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Ensure the implementation of infrastructure and hardware
support. Install and support Telkom data lines, routers, switches, firewalls, and
IDS/IPS. Ensure the installation and support of Servers in the centre. Ensure
officials are enrolled on BACM and provided with BACM smart cards. Support
online verification scanners and fingerprint scanners used for online
verification. Provide support on desktops, printers, or laptops on peripherals
e.g. camera; 3M fingerprint scanner; signature pad; MDF-Scan flow printers.
Maintain IT asset registers in various local offices. Facilitate disposal process
of IT assets providing technical reports for redundant and obsolete items.
Coordinate IT requirements (i.e. computers and all peripherals) of individual
offices with Head Office. Facilitate and implement application/ system support
38
in the district municipality. Identify and resolve problems causing disruption on
the operation of the business and in the network. Ensure the implementation
of effective risk and compliance in the unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Gauteng: Mr P Mlangeni Tel No: (011) 242 9039
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows: Gauteng: Physical Address: 3rd Floor, Mineralia
Building, Cnr De Beer and De Korte Street, Braamfontein, 2017.
POST 25/39 : CIVIC SERVICES SUPERVISOR: AMENDMENTS AND RECTIFICATIONS,
REF NO: HRMC 52/26/5
Sub-Directorate: Amendment and Rectifications
This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply.
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration, Public Management,
Operations or Business Management at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA.
Two (2) Years’ experience at the supervisory level in operations and in a client
or customer services environment is required. Experience in Amendments and
Rectifications registration processes is an added advantage. Knowledge of
Births and Deaths Registration. Knowledge and understanding of all
Departmental Legislations and Prescripts (Civic Services). Basic knowledge of
Human Resource Regulatory Framework. Basic knowledge of Public Service
Regulations. Required skills and competencies: Interpersonal Relations.
Flexibility. Accountability. Analytical skills. Planning and Organising. Conflict
Resolution. Job Knowledge. Time Management. Ability to meet deadlines.
Strong Client and Customer Service. Computer literacy. Planning and
Organising. Good verbal and written. Communication skills. Problem solving.
Report writing. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Supervise and coordinate the effective daily operations of the
Amendment and Rectifications Unit. Monitor daily performance against service
level standards, including turnaround times, backlogs, trends, and error rates,
and take corrective action or escalate in line with DHA guidelines. Perform end-
of-day operational controls and compile daily and weekly performance reports
on turnaround times, volumes processed, and error rates. Implement
measures to ensure quality service delivery and adherence to prescribed
standards. Manage records and documentation in accordance with DHA
records management policies and prescripts. Attend to standard and non-
standard operational requests and issues raised by staff. Provide technical
advice, guidance, and on-the-job support to staff in the execution of daily tasks.
Allocate daily work to staff members and monitor progress against daily targets
and outputs. Identify operational challenges (capacity constraints, training
gaps, bottlenecks) and recommend solutions to management. Remain up to
date with legislative requirements, DHA policies, and circulars, and ensure
accurate implementation. Liaise with Front Offices, Foreign Offices, and
members of the public regarding application status, enquiries, and advisory
matters. Escalate all irregularities and suspected fraudulent activities to
management or Counter Corruption and Security in accordance with
prescribed procedures. Establish, maintain and ensure a good working
relationship with the departmental and all relevant stakeholders. Monitor
compliance with regards to the implementation of Policies and Procedures,
Directives, Acts and Regulations. Implement effective risk and compliance in
line with relevant legislations. Support digital transformation initiatives. Ensure
effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources
within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and compliance with
regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr T Tshabalala Tel No: (012) 406 4177
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za
Head Office, Hallmark Building: Physical address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase
Street, Pretoria, 0001.
39
POST 25/40 : CIVIC SERVICES SUPERVISOR: BIRTHS AND DEATHS REF NO: HRMC
52/26/6
Sub- Directorate: Births and Deaths
This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply.
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration, Public Management,
Operations or Business Management at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Two
(2) Years’ experience at the supervisory level in operations and in a client or
customer services environment is required. Experience in Births and Deaths
registration processes is an added advantage. Knowledge of Births and Deaths
Registration. Knowledge and understanding of the Departmental Legislations
and Prescripts (Civic Services). Basic knowledge of Human Resource
Regulatory Framework. Basic knowledge of Public Service Regulations.
Required skills and competencies: Interpersonal Relations. Flexibility.
Accountability. Analytical skills. Planning and Organising. Conflict Resolution.
Job Knowledge. Time Management. Ability to meet deadlines. Strong Client
and customer service. Computer literacy. Planning and Organising. Good
verbal and written. Communication skills. Problem solving. Report writing.
Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Supervise and coordinate the effective daily operations of the
Births and Deaths Unit. Monitor daily performance against service level
standards, including turnaround times, backlogs, trends, and error rates, and
take corrective action or escalate in line with DHA guidelines. Perform end-of-
day operational controls and compile daily and weekly performance reports on
turnaround times, volumes processed, and error rates. Implement measures to
ensure quality service delivery and adherence to prescribed standards.
Manage records and documentation in accordance with DHA records
management policies and prescripts. Attend to standard and non-standard
operational requests and issues raised by staff. Provide technical advice,
guidance, and on-the-job support to staff in the execution of daily tasks.
Allocate daily work to staff members and monitor progress against daily targets
and outputs. Identify operational challenges (capacity constraints, training
gaps, bottlenecks) and recommend solutions to management. Remain up to
date with legislative requirements, DHA policies, and circulars, and ensure
accurate implementation. Liaise with Front Offices, Foreign Offices, and
members of the public regarding application status, enquiries, and advisory
matters. Escalate all irregularities and suspected fraudulent activities to
management or Counter Corruption and Security in accordance with
prescribed procedures. Establish, maintain and ensure a good working
relationship with the departmental and all relevant stakeholders. Monitor
compliance with regards to the implementation of Policies and Procedures,
Directives, Acts and Regulations. Implement effective risk and compliance in
line with relevant legislations. Support digital transformation initiatives. Ensure
effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources
within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and compliance with
regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr T Tshabalala Tel No: (012) 406 4177
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za
Head Office, Hallmark Building: Physical address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase
Street, Pretoria, 0001
POST 25/41 : CIVIC SERVICES SUPERVISOR: MARRIAGES REF NO: HRMC 52/26/7
Sub-Directorate: Marriages
This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply.
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration, Public Management,
Operations or Business Management at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA
is required. Two (2) Years’ experience at the supervisory level in operations
and in a client or customer services environment is required. Experience in
40
Births, Deaths and Marriages registration processes is an added advantage.
Knowledge of Births and Deaths Registration. Knowledge and understanding
of the Departmental Legislations and Prescripts (Civic Services). Basic
knowledge of Human Resource Regulatory Framework. Basic knowledge of
Public Service Regulations. Required skills and competencies: Interpersonal
Relations. Flexibility. Accountability. Analytical skills. Planning and Organising.
Conflict Resolution. Job Knowledge. Time Management. Ability to meet
deadlines. Strong Client and customer service. Computer literacy. Planning
and Organising. Good verbal and written. Communication skills. Problem
solving. Report writing. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Supervise and coordinate the effective daily operations
of the Marriages Unit. Monitor daily performance against service level
standards, including turnaround times, backlogs, trends, and error rates, and
take corrective action or escalate in line with DHA guidelines. Perform end-of-
day operational controls and compile daily and weekly performance reports on
turnaround times, volumes processed, and error rates. Implement measures to
ensure quality service delivery and adherence to prescribed standards.
Manage records and documentation in accordance with DHA records
management policies and prescripts. Attend to standard and non-standard
operational requests and issues raised by staff. Provide technical advice,
guidance, and on-the-job support to staff in the execution of daily tasks.
Allocate daily work to staff members and monitor progress against daily targets
and outputs. Compile and coordinate, quarterly, and annual reports in line with
departmental and corporate reporting frameworks for the unit. Escalate all
irregularities and suspended fraudulent activities to management or Counter
Corruption and Security in accordance with prescribed procedure. Establish,
maintain and ensure a good working relationship with the departmental and all
relevant stakeholders. Monitor compliance with regards to the implementation
of Policies and Procedures, Directives, Acts and Regulations. Implement
effective risk and compliance in line with relevant legislations. Support digital
transformation initiatives. Ensure effective and efficient management of
human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff
on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr T Tshabalala Tel No: (012) 406 4177
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za
Head Office, Hallmark Building Physical address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase
Street, Pretoria, 0001
POST 25/42 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: HRMC 52/26/8
Directorate: Vetting
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Office Management and Technology,
Business Management, Administration Management or a related field at NQF
Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 1 years experience in
administration is required. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulation.
Extensive knowledge of various filing systems. Knowledge of Office
Administration methodologies. Knowledge and Understanding of Departmental
Legislations and Prescripts. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) and National Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of Supply Chain
Management processes. Required skills and competencies: Analytical
thinking. Planning and organising. Problem Solving. Financial Administration.
Interpersonal skill. Customer Focus. Office Administration. MS Office (MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Multi-Tasking. Financial Administration. Teamwork.
Time Management. Planning and Organising. Good verbal and written.
Communication skills. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Implement the administrative operations of the office.
Perform general administrative activities in support of the unit. Draft
submissions, reports, memorandums, and minutes for the unit. Conduct
records and document management both manually and electronically. Provide
support in completing and processing subsistence claims. Keep track of all
incoming work and ensure that all deadlines are met. Liaise with all
stakeholders relevant to the office. Administer leave arrangements. Process
41
forms and documents related to claims, payments, invoices and consultant
fees relevant to the office. Type correspondence as and when required.
Oversee office equipment and organise maintenance and repairs as required.
Provide logistical services in the functional unit. Ensure innovation and service
delivery within the Unit. Ensure the implementation of effective risk and
compliance management practices. Support digital transformation initiatives.
Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial
resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr R Mohlaka Tel No: (012) 406 4246
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za
Head Office, Hallmark Building: Physical address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase
Street, Pretoria, 0001
POST 25/43 : CASHIER REF NO: HRMC 52/26/9
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Western Cape: Medium Office: Wynberg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate at NQF level 4 as recognised by SAQA.
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge of Cashier
services. Knowledge of Accounting processes and procedures. Understanding
of departmental legislation and Human Resources legislation and prescripts.
Knowledge of the South African Constitution, Knowledge of the Public Service
Regulations Act. Required skills and competencies: Analytical thinking.
Planning and organising. Problem Solving. Financial Administration.
Interpersonal skill. Attention to detail. Clerical and Administration. MS Office
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Multi-Tasking. Financial Administration.
Teamwork. Record and time Management. Planning and Organising. Good
verbal and written. Communication skills. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Provide an effective cashier service to all DHA clients. Capture
the transaction details onto the receipting solution. Receive cash and issues
the receipt/invoices to all applicants. Endorse all applications where cash was
received. Perform the cashing up procedure at the change of shift and end of
day under the cashier’s supervisor. Bank the cash into the ACHD under the
cashier supervisor’s supervision. Count float before each shift and keep drawer
secure at all times. Ensure accurate handling of client cash, credit payments,
and change. Follow all front end procedures and policies. Adhere to requests
from management to assist in other front office functions where required.
Provide advice to clients and route clients to required service points where
required. Ensure the implementation of effective risk and compliance in line
with the Labour Relations Act. Study the relevant public service and
departmental prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape: Mr M Pienaar Tel No: (021) 488 1409
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za
Western Cape: Physical Address: 4th Floor Fair Cape Building, 56 Barrack
Street, Cape Town, 8000.
42
ANNEXURE G
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE
The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in terms of race, gender and disability within the
Department through the filling of posts.
APPLICATIONS : National office: direct your application to Independent police investigative
directorate, Benstra building, 473 Stanza Bopape & Steve Biko Street, arcadia
Pretoria, 0001, or walk ins or email Recruitment13@ipid.gov.za. Please
indicate the post name & reference number on the subject line when applying
through email
FOR ATTENTION : Mr DS Baloyi Tel No: (012) 399 0202
CLOSING DATE 31 July 2026
NOTE The Independent Police Investigative Directorate is offering opportunities to
unemployed South Africans University Graduates who have not been exposed
to work experience related to their qualifications, Application quoting the
reference number must be made to the province of residence and be submitted
through the addresses depicted under each post. Applicants are not required
to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on applications
but must submit Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications quoting the
correct reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/documents . Received applications using the incorrect application
form (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for employment form
must be fully completed, signed and initialed by the applicant. Failure to sign
this form may lead to disqualification of the application during the selection
process. A recently updated, comprehensive CV as well as a fully completed
and initialized new signed Z83 (Section A, B, C & D are compulsory and section
E, F and G are not compulsory if CV is attached). However, the question related
to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part-F must be answered.
affidavit confirming that you have not participated in a similar Programme
before. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Should you be in
possession of a foreign qualification; it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when
shortlisted). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. Due
to the large number of applications, we envisage to receive, applications will
not be acknowledged, if you have not been contacted within three (3) weeks
after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates
only. Therefore, only the shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to
submit the documents on or before the date of the interview. The successful
candidate will have to undergo security vetting. His / her character should be
beyond reproach. The appointment is subject to security clearance, verification
of qualifications and competency assessment (criminal record, citizenship,
credit record checks, qualification verification and employment verification).
Applicants must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations against them. Should this be uncovered
during/after the interview took place, the application will not be considered and
in the unlikely event, that the person has been appointed such appointment will
be terminated. The successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive
results of the security vetting process. All applicants are required to declare
any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships of Boards
and directorships that they may be associated with.
GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME
24 MONTHS
OTHER POST
POST 25/44 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME REF NO: Q9/2026/45 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Legal Compliance, Information and Stakeholder
Management
STIPENT : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
43
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification: NQF Level 7: Criminology or Bachelor of Law.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O Maboa Tel No: (012) 399 0219
44
ANNEXURE H
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
The Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling
of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108
of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of JICS will be taken into consideration. Women and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the EE Target. JICS
reserves the rights to fill these positions.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 20:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment and saved with
surname and initials. JPEG (picture/snapshot) applications will not be
accepted. Failure to do so will result in your application being disqualified.
Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s)
advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed
below. Failure to fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All applications
must reach the Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) on/or
before the closing date and time. JICS cannot be held responsible for server
delays. Applications submitted in any other way other than the published link
or hand delivery will be treated as invalid. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to indicate “refer to CV” or “see
attached”. However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part “F” must be answered and the declaration signed. Only
an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience, if any) and
a completed and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other
related documents on or before the day of the interview following the
communication from Human Resources and such qualification(s) and other
related document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-
RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’ technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used for the sole purpose of this application and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. Due to
the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The JICS reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate
will be required to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement. All costs associated with an application will be borne by the
applicant. The appointment will be made according to the Public Service Act of
1994. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
45
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/45 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING, MONITORING AND
EVALUATION REF NO: JI 33/2026
Office of the Chief Executive Officer
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized NQF 6 qualifications in Public Management or Public
Administration or relevant equivalent qualification (NQF 6/RVQ13). The
candidate must have three (3) to five (5) years’ experience in strategic
management/planning. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge of: Public Service
Act, (Batho Pele Principles), corporate governance guidelines and strategies.
Required information technology knowledge. Monitoring and evaluation
framework. Application of research methodology. Basic project management.
Strategic formulation and implementation. Public sector governance
framework. Monitoring and evaluation (setting outcome targets and
performance measures). Communication (verbal and written). Problem solving
and analysis. Planning and organising. Knowledge management. Diversity
management. Budgeting and financial management. Computer literacy.
Research skills. Development of monitoring contingency plans and systems.
DUTIES : Coordinate and prepare inputs/presentations and feedback regarding the
strategic and annual performance plans for JICS. Assist with the review or
development of relevant departmental policies pertaining to JICS procedures
to the relevant role players. Develop, facilitate, coordinate, present and
maintain strategic and annual planning processes. Coordinate and maintain
operational plans. Ensure the updating and monitoring of strategic planning in
terms of the annual performance/business plan and operational plan. Ensure
the proper and timeous reporting on the performance plan. Coordinate the
development and submission of the annual performance. Monitor and evaluate
the implementation of JICS performance outcomes and reviews.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Bezuidenhout Tel No: (012) 321 0303
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be submitted through following link:
https://forms.gle/62pAxrfw5GsKCGJF7 or hand delivered to Block C3, Eco
Origins Office Park, Witch-hazel Street, Centurion, 0046.
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resources
POST 25/46 : HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER REF NO: JI 34/2026
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or an
equivalent qualification. Experience in office administration is required.
Candidates should be computer literate with proficiency in Microsoft Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook. The ideal candidate should demonstrate
strong planning, organisational, communication, interpersonal, problem-
solving, and time-management skills, with the ability to work both
independently and as part of a team. Conflict management and attention to
detail are essential. A valid driver's licence, knowledge of the PERSAL system,
a qualification in Human Resource Management, and experience within the
Justice Cluster will serve as added advantages.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the implementation of human
resource administration practices concerning service benefits (Leave,
Housing, Medical, Injury on duty, Terminations, Long Service recognition,
Overtime, Relocation, Pensions, Allowances, etc.), and HR Provisioning
(Recruitment & Selection, Transfer, Verification of qualifications, secretariat
functions at interviews, absorptions, probationary reports, etc.). Address
human resource administration enquiries to ensure the correct implementation
of human resource management practices. Capturing of transactions on
PERSAL. Filing and updating of personnel files. Performance Management
and Human Resource Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Bezuidenhout Tel No: (012) 321 0303
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be submitted through following link:
https://forms.gle/nuczQEXkUftZ1WVi7 or hand delivered to Block C3, Eco
Origins Office Park, Witch-hazel Street, Centurion, 0046.
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resources
46
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful completion of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three
(3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. NB: Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by
applicants will be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a
criminal case shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your application
before the closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do not
submit duplicate applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate
applications for each post. Applications submitted via email will be
acknowledged via an automated response. Applications received manually will
not be acknowledged due to high volumes of applications received. If you have
not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
ERRATUM: The position of Survey Technician with Ref No: 3/1/1/1/2026/149
for the Directorate: Examination Services: KwaZulu-Natal (Pietermaritzburg)
that was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 24 dated 10 July 2026
has reference. Applicants are advised that applications can be submitted by
hand delivery during office hours to: 1st Floor, 270 Jabu Ndlovu Street (formerly
known as Loop Street), Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or by email to
Post149@dlrrd.gov.za. The closing date has been extended to 31 July 2026.
The Department apologies for any inconvenience caused.
47
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 25/47 : DISTRICT DIRECTOR REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/166)
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Directorate: Or Tambo / Alfred Nzo District Office: Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Business
Administration / Public Management / Public Administration / Project
Management / Bachelor of Arts in Sociology / Anthropology / Community
Development Studies (NQF level 7) or related equivalent qualification and a
Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to
appointment. Minimum of 5 years of experience at middle/senior managerial
level in the relevant environment. Experience in the implementation and
management of projects. A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: A
thorough understanding of project management. Understanding of corporate
governance principles. Ability to implement performance management and
monitoring systems. Knowledge of government systems. Ability to think
conceptually when analysing data designing concepts to modify corporate
policies, procedures and processes. Job related skills: Project management.
Coaching and mentoring (though leadership). Analytical thinking. Adaptability
and flexibility. Customer service. Initiative. Innovation and creativity.
Communication (verbal and written). Computer literate. Willingness to travel.
Ability to work under pressure. Willingness to work after hours.
DUTIES : Provide capacity building and National Rural Youth Service Corps (NARYSEC)
services. Provide NARYSEC support services. Facilitate the establishment and
support of participatory community development. Facilitate and coordinate
NARYSEC project implementation. Facilitate youth programmes and skills
development at provincial and district level. Reduce household poverty in
accordance with comprehensive Rural Development Programme (CRDP).
Provide strategic land acquisition services. Implement strategic land
acquisition projects proposals. Procure service providers for development of
project proposals. Coordinate the implementation process of land acquisition.
Provide strategic land acquisition support services in the district. Facilitate
poverty reduction, and the development of cooperatives, rural enterprises and
industries. Promote rural businesses development and facilitate rural
development financing. Facilitate establishment and support of primary
cooperatives. Facilitate organisation of primary cooperatives into secondary
and tertiary cooperative sand provide support. Facilitate the development of
rural enterprises and industries. Provide land development support services.
Manage the development of business plans for the development or agrarian
development projects. Promote the participation of farmers through ownership
and control across commodities value chains. Monitor the implementation of
land development support projects and development business plans. Provide
property management services. Administer and provide property leases
administration. Administer and provide property holdings and disposable.
Implement land rights and tenure reform programmes. Provide communal land
tenure programmes. Provide land rights programmes. Establish, maintain, and
support communal property institutions. Facilitate land dispute resolutions.
Render corporate and financial support services. Provide legal advice. Provide
telecommunications services. Provide administration and financial support
services. Provide client relations services. Provide office services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Van Vuuren Tel No: (043) or Ms A Kili Tel No: (043) 701 8186
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Ocean
Terrace, Block H, corner of Coutts and Moore Street, Quigney, East London or
by email to Post166@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 25/48 : DISTRICT DIRECTOR REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/167
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
48
CENTRE : Directorate: Namakwa District Office: Northern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Business
Administration / Public Management / Public Administration / Project
Management / Bachelor of Arts in Sociology / Anthropology / Community
Development Studies (NQF level 7) or related equivalent qualification and a
Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to
appointment. Minimum of 5 years of experience at middle/senior managerial
level in the relevant environment. Experience in the implementation and
management of projects. A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: A
thorough understanding of project management. Understanding of corporate
governance principles. Ability to implement performance management and
monitoring systems. Knowledge of government systems. Ability to think
conceptually when analysing data designing concepts to modify corporate
policies, procedures and processes. Job related skills: Project management.
Coaching and mentoring (though leadership). Analytical thinking. Adaptability
and flexibility. Customer service. Initiative. Innovation and creativity.
Communication (verbal and written). Computer literate. Willingness to travel.
Ability to work under pressure. Willingness to work after hours.
DUTIES : Provide capacity building and National Rural Youth Service Corps (NARYSEC)
services. Provide NARYSEC support services. Facilitate the establishment and
support of participatory community development. Facilitate and coordinate
NARYSEC project implementation. Facilitate youth programmes and skills
development at provincial and district level. Reduce household poverty in
accordance with comprehensive Rural Development Programme (CRDP).
Provide strategic land acquisition services. Implement strategic land
acquisition projects proposals. Procure service providers for development of
project proposals. Coordinate the implementation process of land acquisition.
Provide strategic land acquisition support services in the district. Facilitate
poverty reduction, and the development of cooperatives, rural enterprises and
industries. Promote rural businesses development and facilitate rural
development financing. Facilitate establishment and support of primary
cooperatives. Facilitate organisation of primary cooperatives into secondary
and tertiary cooperative sand provide support. Facilitate the development of
rural enterprises and industries. Provide land development support services.
Manage the development of business plans for the development or agrarian
development projects. Promote the participation of farmers through ownership
and control across commodities value chains. Monitor the implementation of
land development support projects and development business plans. Provide
property management services. Administer and provide property leases
administration. Administer and provide property holdings and disposable.
Implement land rights and tenure reform programmes. Provide communal land
tenure programmes. Provide land rights programmes. Establish, maintain, and
support communal property institutions. Facilitate land dispute resolutions.
Render corporate and financial support services. Provide legal advice. Provide
telecommunications services. Provide administration and financial support
services. Provide client relations services. Provide office services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Moeketsi Tel No: (053) 830 4000/1
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to:
Magistrate Court Building, 6th floor, Knight Street, Corner of Stead Street,
Kimberley, 8300 or by email to Post167@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 25/49 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL OPERATIONS SUPPORT REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/168
Directorate: Provincial Operations Support
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Northern Cape (Kimberley)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Public
Administration / Business Administration / Public Management (NQF Level 7)
or related equivalent qualification and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry
Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5 years of
49
experience at middle / senior managerial level in the operations support
environment. A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Understanding of
corporate governance principle. Ability to implement performance
management and monitoring systems. Knowledge of government systems.
Job-related skills: Ability to communicate effectively across a broad spectrum.
A thorough understanding and practical experience of Project Management.
Analytical and problem-solving. Facilitation and coordination and experience.
Experience in implementation of goals / plans, including monitoring, tracking
and reporting status toward goal completion. Ability to think conceptually when
analysing data and designing concepts to modify corporate policies,
procedures and processes. Presentation and comfortable creating and
communicating compelling arguments for modifying a course of action.
Computer literacy. Willingness to travel. Ability to work under pressure and long
hours.
DUTIES : Facilitate the integration of planning, resource allocation and performance
management of outcomes of the Provincial Office through the Corporate
Governance Framework. Facilitate the issuing of planning framework by the
Directorate: Strategic Planning for all Provincial Offices and monitor Provincial
Offices planning process. Analyse the District Integrated Operational Plans and
ensure alignment with the DLRRD Annual Performance Plan. Analyse
Provincial Integrated Operational Plans and ensure alignment to the District
Operational Plans. Ensure approval (signing off) of all Districts and Provincial
Integrated Operational Plans. Lead the development and implementation of
consistent corporate performance monitoring and evaluation to focus on the
delivery of Provincial Office Annual Performance Plan outcomes. Manage and
implement evaluation and research frameworks. Monitor the initiating and
conducting research and evaluation. Coordinate the integration of all
monitoring and evaluation systems within the province. Manage reporting
instruments and tools on monitoring and evaluation. Ensure robust
governance, effective decision making, value for money and appropriate
benefits are achieved through corporate activity, policy and strategy
frameworks. Monitor monthly and provide written reports on functionality of
provincial governance structures. Randomly attend the provincial governance
structures as part of monitoring functionality. Provide professional advice and
support to the Chief Director: Provincial Office in community participation,
community planning, corporate and operational planning, program
performance reporting, corporate project, policy, strategy and infrastructure
development and implementation, and corporate governance development
and implementation. Provide quarterly reports identifying performance risks
and recommending intervention plans and improvements for operational
efficiency and performance improvements. Prepare bi-annual integrated
operational plan performance reports clearly identifying trends, areas requiring
policy and systems improvements. Provide professional advice as when the
need arise and especially when risks are identified. Provide assistance with the
initiation, management, coordination and the implementation of strategic
corporate projects. Integrate strategic, operational and performance
management functions, frameworks and systems, including recommendations
for strategic resource allocation at provincial level. Provide assistance to the
Chief Director: Provincial Office Coordination to initiate and coordinate the
implementation of strategic corporate (cross-provincial service centres)
projects to improve the Provincial Office ability to meet strategic outcomes and
service delivery objectives exercising appropriate discretion to achieve
required outcomes. Monitor the performance of the identified DLRRD key
programmes and facilitate sharing of the best practices and lessons learnt by
provinces through the existing departmental governance structures. Monitor
implementation of Standard Operating Procedures in implementation of the
departmental key programmes (obtain reports from Directors, analyse and
produce bi-monthly reports). Establish and maintain internal and external
networks to monitor trends and best practice in corporate governance. Identify
institutions that will be part of the networks for the DLRRD and have a report
approved by the Chief Director and facilitate development of relationships and
networks with those institutions. Ensure the maintenance of these networks
and ongoing relationships. Benchmark with the identified institutions to get best
practices and learn lessons from these institutions once a year. Develop a
report on proposed continuous improvement. Develop Integrated Operational
Plans performance reporting system. Monitor all provincial performance
against the approved Integrated Operational Plans monthly. Request and get
50
monthly reports from Directors. Analyse the reports (performance reported
against plans, reasons for variance and proposed intervention plans).
Consolidate monthly the Provincial Performance to one (1) Integrated
Operational Performance plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Moeketsi Tel No: (053) 830 4000/1
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to:
Magistrate Court Building, 6th floor, Knight Street, Corner of Stead Street,
Kimberley, 8300 or by email to Post168@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 25/50 : DIRECTOR: TENURE REFORM IMPLEMENTATION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/171
Directorate: Tenure Reform Implementation
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Northern Cape (Kimberley)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and Bachelor's Degree in the field of Social Sciences / LLB or
related equivalent qualification (NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-
entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5
years of experience at middle / senior managerial level in the relevant field. A
valid driver's licence. Job related knowledge: Thorough knowledge of land
tenure security matters. Relevant tenure legislation and policies. Strategic
planning. Human resource management. Financial management. Supply chain
management. Knowledge of economics. Public Service Act. Job related skills:
Analytical thinking. Communication (verbal and written). Planning and
organising. Computer literacy. Report writing. Problem solving and decision
making. Interpersonal relations. Facilitation and ability to present. Negotiation
and conflict resolution. Networking ability. Team management. Customer and
client focus. Statistical forecasting. Willingness to travel. Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Manage and implement Communal Land Tenure Programmes. Promote
awareness and capacity building on communal land management and relevant
laws to stakeholders. Laise and monitor land rights management structures by
providing legal protection and awareness. Facilitate and mediate in case of
land rights violation and disputes on communal land in terms of relevant
legislation. Manage the implementation of the communal tenure programmes
in terms of Transformation of Certain Rural Areas Act (TRANCRAA) and Interim
Protection of Informal Land Rights Act (IPILRA). Manage the implementation
of the land rights upgrade programmes in terms of Acts 111, 112, 119. Manage
and implement land rights programmes. Manage all enquiries on land rights
programmes. Establish and maintain land rights mediation and adjudication
processes. Conduct land rights awareness campaigns. Provide long terms
security of tenure to farm dwellers through acquisition of land in terms of
Extension of Security of Tenure Act (ESTA) and Land Reform (Labour Tenants)
Act. Manage the establishment and support of the Land Rights Management
Committees (LRMC). Provide support to the Office of the Communal Property
Association (CPA) Registrar. Provide support to CPA Office for the
establishment of Communal Property Associations. Provide support to CPA
office in the training and support of CPA. Maintain the database of CPAs
assisted through Land Rights Management Facility (LRMF). Support the CPA
office with intervention on CPA disputes. Support the CPA office through LRMF
to provide the mediation, judicial administration, and dispute resolution
proceedings of the CPAs. Provide strategic leadership and support land tenure
programmes. Lead and manage the Directorate. Develop provincial
implementation plan on tenure programmes. Manage and coordinate
stakeholder relations. Represent and present the Directorate at various Fora.
Manage external and internal audits. Ensure implementation of policies and
legislation. Manage risk and audit action plan. Manage the Land Rights
Management Facility in the Province. Conduct quarterly case review meetings.
Prepare quarterly case review reports. Approve request for appointment of
panellists, mediation, judicial administration, and bookkeepers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Moeketsi Tel No: (053) 830 4000/1
51
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to:
Magistrate Court Building, 6th floor, Knight Street, Corner of Stead Street,
Kimberley, 8300 or by email to Post171@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/51 : SENIOR STATE LAND ADVISOR REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/177 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Property Management and Advisory Services
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in Law (LLB / BProc
Degree). Minimum of 5 years` post qualification experience in litigation, drafting
of legal opinions and drafting of contracts. Admission as an Attorney or proven
experience as a practicing Advocate. A valid driver`s licence. Job related
knowledge: Knowledge of legislation on state land and other relevant
prescripts. Knowledge of Constitutional Law. Knowledge of property
management. Knowledge of policy analysis and development. Knowledge of
legal research procedures. Knowledge of service level agreements and
memorandum of understanding or agreements. Job related skills: Computer
literacy. Project management. Analytical thinking. Communication (verbal and
written). Problem solving and decision making.
DUTIES : Render legal opinion on state land matters. Verify information on Land
Administration Web (LAW) system pertaining to legal matters as per received
instruction. Conduct legal research to formulate legal opinion on state land
matters. Consult client stakeholders on legal matters pertaining to state land.
Monitor and review current standard legal agreements. Render legal advice on
all contracts pertaining to state land. Review state land contracts and
agreements. Draft contracts or agreements on state land matters. Peruse and
edit draft lease agreements (short or long term) caretaker-ship agreements,
commercial development agreements and agricultural lease agreements.
Ensure that lease contracts are in compliance with lease and disposal policies
and relevant legislation. Manage litigation processes on state land matters.
Refer litigation matters to Legal Services, State Attorneys and legal counsel.
Liaise with State Attorneys on briefings and instructions. Conduct follow-ups
and update on the progress on matters referred. Prepare reports on progress
and conclusion of matters referred. Provide legal inputs on policy development
and procedure pertaining to state land. Provide responses on audit findings
relating to compliance with legislation or any matter of legal nature. Ensure
compliance on all legal related matters pertaining to state land. Provide
capacity building to internal clients on legal related matters. Investigate
complaints, where necessary, and provide recommendations.
ENQUIRIES : Adv VZ Mngwengwe Tel No: (012) 312 9362
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van Der Walt Street) Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0001 or by email to Post177@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 25/52 : PROJECT MANAGER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/138
Directorate: Rural Infrastructure Development
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Cape Town)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or related equivalent qualification (NQF
Level 6) in Civil Engineering or similar, Construction Management, Quantity
Surveying or a related Built Environment discipline. Minimum of 3 years’ junior
management experience in planning, design, construction and / or
management of infrastructure projects, of which at least 3 years must be in
construction project management, engineering supervision or infrastructure
implementation, preferably within: Government or public sector infrastructure
52
delivery, or Large-scale civil / building construction projects. A valid driver’s
licence. Job related knowledge: Built environment and construction. Legislative
and regulatory. Contract and procurement. Financial and cost management.
Monitoring, reporting and performance management. Stakeholder and
community engagement. Professional practice and ethics. People
management and leadership experience. Job related skills: Critical thinking
and problem-solving. Leadership ability. Planning and organising. Decision-
making. Communication (verbal and written). Influencing, Delegation,
Teamwork and Negotiation. Conflict management. Ability to research. Report
writing. Ability to present. Stakeholder management. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Manage, develop and oversee infrastructure planning, design coordination and
technical advisory: Plan and coordinate the development of rural infrastructure
projects from a built environmental and engineering perspective. Provide
technical input into feasibility studies, scope definitions, business cases and
implementation plans. Interpret and apply engineering designs, specifications,
drawing and standards for rural infrastructure projects. Manage and oversee
construction project management and site implementation: Manage the
execution of construction projects throughout the full project lifecycle.
Coordinate contractors, consulting engineers, quantity surveyors and
implementing agents on construction site. Monitor construction progress,
quality of workmanship and compliance with approved drawings and
specifications. Manage and ensure cost control, measurement and financial
management. Review and verify Bills of Quantities (BOQS), estimates, cost
plans and pricing schedules. Monitor construction expenditure against
approved budgets and cash flow projections. Manage and oversee contract
administration and supply chain compliance. Manage construction contracts in
accordance with Joint Building Contracts Committee, New Engineering
Contract (NEC), FIDIC or Government Certificate of Competency conditions,
as applicable. Support procurement processes, including bid specifications,
technical evaluations and adjudication inputs. Ensure contractor compliance
with contractual obligations, CIDB grading requirements and performance
standards. Oversee, monitor and maintain quality assurance, technical
compliance and risk management. Ensure construction works comply with
approved technical standards, specifications and quality requirements.
Implement quality assurance and quality control measure throughout project
execution. Identify construction-related risks (technical, financial,
environmental and safety) and implement mitigation measures). Ensure
environmental compliance, including implementation of Environmental
Management Plans (EMPs). Support internal and external audit by providing
technical compliance evidence and corrective action plans. Communicate
effectively with stakeholders, the community, and manage intergovernmental
coordination. Engage with beneficiaries, traditional leaders, community
representatives and local authorities during project Implementation.
Coordinate with municipalities, provincial departments and other sector
stakeholders to ensure integrated infrastructure delivery. Ensure and oversee
the reporting, monitoring and performance management. Monitor construction
performance against scope, schedule, budget and quality benchmarks.
Compile and submit technical progress reports, site reports and performance
dashboards. Maintain professional practice, ethics and capacity building.
Uphold professional ethics, integrity and accountability in line with public
service and professional council standards. Apply best practices in
construction and engineering project management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dlamini Tel No: (012) 312 9295
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 4th floor,
No 2 Riebeeck Street, ABSA Building, Cape Town or by email to
Post138@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 25/53 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEMAND AND ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF
NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/153
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
53
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Financial Management / Logistics /
Purchasing Management / Supply Chain Management / Public Administration
/ Public Management or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years’
experience at Junior management in Supply Chain management environment.
A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge of Financial Accounting Systems. Accpac
(Accounting, Customer Relationship Management (CRM), and business
management software). Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
Treasury Regulations. Performance Management and Monitoring.
Government systems and structures. Government decision making processes.
Programme setting process. Understanding of the management information
and formal reporting system. Dealing with Misconduct. Internal Control and
Risk Management. Project management principles and tools. The political
landscape of South Africa. Project management. Team management.
Interpersonal skills. Budget forecasting skills. Computer literacy. Resource
planning skills. Problem-solving and decision-making skills. Time management
skills. Business skills. Communication skills. The ability to work efficiently and
effectively at all times.
DUTIES : Provide sourcing strategy. Advise and approve sourcing strategies. Develop
price catalogue for benchmarking. Monitor, advise and approve specification /
TOR development. Develop and administer the credible database for sourcing
of goods and services. Approve accreditation of service provider. Manage and
provide feedback on registration of suppliers. Recommend suppliers.
Recommend suppliers' performance. Manage demand management process.
Analyse and verify DMP template for costing. Facilitate consultation and
approval of DMP and procurement plan. Monitor DMP and recommend on
procurement requests. Recommend and ensure existence of BESEC. Manage
acquisition process. Approve and evaluate quotes. Approve and verify bidding
processes. Verify evaluated bidders for / before adjudication. Advise on
implementation of SCM prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. LM Tshivhase Tel No: (012) 338 7123 and Mr. R Saila Tel No: (012) 338
7123
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of
the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria,
0002 or apply using Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian, and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian,
and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 25/54 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/154
Directorate: Financial Management and Accounting
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree in Financial Information
System or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years relevant
management experience in the financial environment where a financial
accounting, reporting and management software is used. A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge of an accrual based comprehensive Accounting and
Financial System. Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practice
(GRAP). Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge
of Treasury Regulations. Policies Procedures and Prescripts. Performance
Management and Monitoring. Government System and Structures.
Government Decision making Processes. Programme setting process.
Understanding of the management information and formal reporting system.
Dealing with misconduct. Internal control and Risk Management. Project
management principles and tools. Political land scape of South Africa. Project
Management. Team Management. Interpersonal skills. Budget Forecasting
skills. Computer Literacy. Resource Planning skills. Problem Solving and
decision-making skills. Time management skills. Business skills.
Communication skills. Willingness to travel. Ability to work under pressure to
meet strict deadlines. The ability to always work efficiently and effectively.
54
DUTIES : Manage the integrity of the accounting data. Maintain and report audited data
using trails. Maintain integrated logs. Administer data corruption. Monitor
available space on server and alert IT. Act as the custodian of the Deeds
Registration Trading Entity’s Financial Systems. Manage process of vendor /
supplier’s creditor validation. Perform reconciliation between sub ledger and
general ledger. Assist with running month procedure. Assist with running day
end procedures. Assist with yearend procedure e.g stock takes, asset counts,
exporting reports and data Assist with performing year end procedures to close
modules. Ensure successful integration between DRS system and Accounts
Receivable / Debtors module Ensure successful integration between PERSAL
and General Ledger and Accounts Payable module. Maintain parameters and
optional fields for all modules Maintain integration with commercial banks
electronic portal for payments and downloading of bank statements.
Maintenance of mapping codes in relevant modules. Maintain test server.
Ensure regular test, restore and validation of back-ups. Monitor, troubleshoot,
and reports server related problems. Provide operational access and
improvements, systems support and training to the Deeds Registers. Assist
with project management. Handholding with installation of new products. Train
new products and ad hoc site training. Coordinate training. Supervise technical
support. Coordinate and test upgrades. Provide user and client support.
Provide general user support. Provide telephonic support to regional offices.
User maintenance. Maintain user access rights for all modules. Update and
maintain workflow roles and responsibility. Ensure segregation of duties.
Regular review of registered users. Logging calls with Deeds: ITC and OCIO
helpdesk. Manage and report progress on progress of outstanding support
calls. Manage the deeds financial systems, policies, procedures and forms.
Develop and maintain Financial Systems Policy. Develop and maintain user
manuals for all modules. Ensure proper internal controls implemented and
mechanisms in place to eliminate fraud and losses. Maintain and implement
systems, procedures, processes, and provision of training to ensure efficient
and effective financial administration.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Tshivhase Tel No: (012) 338 7123 and Mr. R Saila Tel No: (012) 338 7123
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of
the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria,
0002 or apply using Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian, and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian,
and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 25/55 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/155
Directorate: Financial Management and Accounting
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package to be structed in
accordance with MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree in Accounting /
Financial Accounting / Management Accounting / Financial Management /
Auditing / Cost and Management Accounting or a related equivalent
qualification (NQF 6). Minimum of 3 years junior Management experience in
financial management and/ or accounting field. A valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge of an accrual based comprehensive Accounting and Financial
System. Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP).
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge of
Treasury Regulations. Policies Procedures and Prescripts. Performance
Management and Monitoring. Government System and Structures.
Government Decision making Processes. Programme setting process.
Understanding of the management information and formal reporting system.
Dealing with misconduct. Internal control and Risk Management. Project
management principles and tools. Political land scape of South Africa. Project
Management. Team Management. Interpersonal skills. Budget Forecasting
skills. Computer Literacy. Resource Planning skills. Problem Solving and
decision-making skills. Time management skills. Business skills.
Communication skills. Willingness to travel. Ability to work under pressure to
meet strict deadlines. The ability to always work efficiently and effectively at all
times.
55
DUTIES : Compile and prepare Interim and Annual Financial Statements. Ensure all
relevant transactions are processed within the correct period. Reconcile
General Ledger accounts and attend to exceptions. Prepare amortization
calculations on new finance leases. Process initial recognition, appointment
and finance cost Journals on all finance leases. Populate and complete Annual
Financial Statements template and National Treasury template. Prepare
financial statements notes and calculations. Ensure that financial statements.
Are prepared according to International Accounting Standards. Prepare
documents for audit requests / queries. Managing monthly reporting on general
ledger accounts. Perform reconciliations and analysis of general ledger
accounts and attend to exceptions. Ensure all relevant transactions are
processed within the correct period. Provide recons to manager for comments
on outstanding balances. Approve complete month-end reporting file and
ensure working schedules are attached. Prepare documents for audit requests
/ queries. Providing support and guidance to clients. Financial Compliance
Committee member Managing monthly bank statement, cash book
reconciliation and banking. Ensure all discrepancies are investigated and
resolved timely. Review reconciliations of transactions on bank statement. With
cash book. Prepare documents for audit requests / queries. Providing support
and guidance to clients. Manage the section in accordance with corporate
governance Discuss and sign PA, identify and / or analyses training needs and
update the PDP Conduct mid-term and annual reviews. Conduct person-to-
person training and complete training schedule nominate subordinates for
training courses Exercise discipline. Administration of leave and manage office
hours. Provide management response to Audit request / Queries. Review and
implement risk register. Draft and implement section Operational Plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Tshivhase Tel No: (012) 338 7123 and Mr. R Saila Tel No: (012) 338 7123
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of
the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria,
0002 or apply using Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE targets: Coloured, Indian, and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian,
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 25/56 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: QUALITY ASSURANCE REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/156
Chief Directorate: Deeds Finance and Corporate Support
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Accounting / Auditing / Internal Audit /
Risk Management and Cost Accounting or related equivalent qualification.
Minimum 3 years of experience at a junior management level in Finance /
Internal Control / Auditing / Risk Management / Internal Audit field. A valid
driver’s license. Knowledge of Financial Accounting Systems. Accpac
(Accounting Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and business
management software). Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP).
Treasury Regulations. Performance Management and Monitoring.
Government systems and structures. Government decision making processes.
Programme setting process. Understanding of the management information
and formal reporting system. Dealing with Misconduct. Internal Control and
Risk Management. Project management principles and tools. Project
management. Team management. Interpersonal skills. Budget forecasting
skills. Computer literacy. Resource planning skills. Problem-solving and
decision-making skills. Time management skills. Business skills.
Communication skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate Risk Management services. Implement risk management
strategies / policies and systems for the branch. Promote risk awareness
culture and review conduct risk assessment. Coordinate risk management
training programmes and communicate on new risk management
development. Develop, implement, and maintain the institutional Risk
management Framework and strategy in line with National Treasury
guidelines. Ensure risk management practices are embedded across strategic,
operational, financial, and compliance processes. Support the branch head in
fulfilling risk governance responsibilities. Prepare risk management reports for
56
senior management, risk management committee, audit committee, and
overside body where it is needed. Facilitate Performance Management and
Evaluation. Coordinate and implement the performance information
management systems and coordinate M&E activities. Monitor and coordinate
monthly, quarterly and performance reporting of the branch. Support and
coordinate the production of the branch strategic plan, Annual Performance
Plan, and operational plan. Review performance reports and recommend
improvement strategy to meet performing planned target. Strengthen
collaboration with other National Departments and external partners on
monitoring and evaluation issues. Manage corporate support quality
assurance. Serves as a nodal point for all audit communication, information
request and management responses. Facilitate the development and
implementation of the branch audit action plans to address identified control
deficiencies. Manage and respond to audit queries in relation to performance
of Corporate Support Services. Develop quality assurance reports for senior
management and audit committees on audit action plan. Review and provide
assurance on the credibility and reliability of financial information prior
submitting to overside body, Auditor and National Treasury. Support oversight
bodies with accurate and timely financial reporting. Ensure financial statements
comply with applicable accounting standards GRAP and ASB guidelines).
Manage Compliance and Monitoring. Coordinate policies review, approval and
monitor the implementation and alignment of internal policies and procedures
for corporate support of the branch. Coordinate and maintenance of the branch
financial compliance and loss control committee. Manage the secretariat of the
financial compliance and loss control committee. Investigate irregular, fruitless
and wasteful expenditure, identify potential financial risks (inclusive of fraud
risks) and facilitate management action to mitigate the identified risks. Provide
guidance and training to finance officials on compliance matters. Promote a
culture of compliance and accountability within the finance environment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Tshivhase Tel No: (012) 338 7123 and Mr. R Saila Tel No: (012) 338 7123
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of
the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria,
0002 or apply using Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE TARGETS: African, Coloured, Indian, and White Males and African,
Coloured, Indian, and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 25/57 : PROJECT OFFICE MANAGER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/157
Directorate: Programme Management (Entity Development)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Project Management or related equivalent
qualification. Minimum of 3 years working experience at junior management
level in project management. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge of Project
Management software (e.g. MS Project,) MS Office (Word, PowerPoint, etc).
Project management methodology. IT related projects. Ability to manage and
coordinate projects. Ability to create and maintain technical project plans and
outcomes. Good verbal communication skills. Good report writing skills.
Financial management skills. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Manage Project / Results Management Office. Define and implement project /
programme standards and ensure compliance to Results Management Office
(RMO). Implement project governance model and project management
methodology. Manage and report PMO benefits. Implement research projects
according to policies and standards developed. Quality assure project
business cases. Monitor project performance, data and trend analysis. Support
project managers to implement projects. Manage Branch Projects. Prioritise
and implement projects in line with project methodology. Manage project
resources (budget, human and time). Monitor and report project performance.
Consolidate project scheduling and dependencies. Schedule and facilitate
review workshops and program milestones. Manage project stakeholders.
Perform quality assurance audits on all projects. Define project quality criteria.
Quality assure projects according to defined quality criteria. Consolidate and
review project risks, delays and issues. Manage project audit action plans.
57
Manage project risk management action plans. Manage PMO related
administrative services. Manage procurement services and contracts. Assist
with responses to tender enquiries. Obtain quotations for various projects for
approval purposes. Coordinate contract and project scope variations. Manage
project resources. Monitor and report all project performance, data and trend
analysis. Administer the successful closure of the project, including final
invoices, handovers and documentation. Manage project governance
administration related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Matsemela Tel No: (012) 338 7123 and Mr A Strydom Tel No: (012) 338
7123
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of
the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria,
0002 or apply using Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE targets: Coloured, Indian, and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian,
and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 25/58 : ASSISTANT REGISTRAR OF DEEDS: LEGISLATION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/158
Directorate: Legal and Legislation Support
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Law / Deeds Registration Law with
Advanced Diploma in Estate Planning and Administration / Buris / B Proc / LLB
or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 4 years’ experience as Senior
Examiner / Deeds Registration Assistant Law Lecturer. A valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge on registration of Deeds. Knowledge of Document Tracking
Systems (DOTS). Interpretation of statutes. Examination of Deeds. Human
Resource prescripts. Project Management. Computer skills. Communication
skills. Letter drafting skills. Organising. Problem solving. Interpersonal skill.
Supervisory. Policy analysis and Development. Report writing.
DUTIES : Provide guidelines to deeds registries and conveyances on new legislation and
court cases; Peruse all government gazettes containing legislation. Draft
circular containing to provision in respect of registration matters that are
contained in a new legislation. Issue the approved circular to all Registrars of
Deeds, Deeds Examiners and Law Society of SA. Check if all examiners are
in possession of updated legislation. Furnish commentary and advice
regarding draft legislation; Peruse the draft legislation e.g. Sectional Title
Scheme Management Act 8 of 2011 which was administrated by Department
of Human Settlement. Provide advice to the relevant departments. Prepare
draft legislation on deeds registration; Obtain proposal for amendment of
Deeds Registries Act 47 of 1937 from members of Deeds Regulation Board
and Sectional Title Act 95 of 1986 from Sectional Title Regulation Board. Draft
Deeds Registries and Sectional title amendment bill. Draft government notices
in order to amend the regulations to the Act 47 of 1937. Draft submission to the
Minister together with cabinet memorandum and memorandum on the object
of amendment bill. Provide legal opinions on appeals by conveyances. Obtain
appeal documentation from the conveyances. Conduct necessary research
which will include different legislations. Prepare opinion that must be approved
and signed by Chief Registrar of Deeds. Send approval documents to relevant
Registrars of Deeds and Conveyances. Attend to Ministerial, DG, public and
other enquiries. Attend to tasks from Ministerial / DG which relate to Deeds
Registration. Conduct necessary research pertaining to deeds registration
which will include the investigation of different legislation / deeds search. Write
a letter of enquiry. Draft a memo to the Minister or Director-General. Attend to
letters, telephone, e-mails from the general public. Attend to requests from the
public for appointment of arbitrator in terms of act 95 of 1986 STA. Write a letter
of appointment to the arbitrator and notification letter to the client. Provide legal,
secretarial and administrative support to the Deeds Registries Regulation
Board, Sectional Title Regulation Board and the Registrars Conference and
Surveyor Generals Conferences. Draft memo to the Minister for appointment
of board members. Send letters of appointment to members of the board. Draft
the invitation letters to board members for proposal of amendment of the act.
58
Compile a memo to Surveyor-General and Registrars of Deeds for proposal of
the act. Draft agenda with the inputs from the board members, Registrars, and
Surveyor Generals. Attend the meeting as an observer and provide advice to
the board members in respect to the proposal. Draft the minutes for the
meeting. Draft the legislation. Send the conference resolution to be published.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Matsemela Tel No: (012) 338 7123 and Mr A Strydom Tel No: (012) 338
7123
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of
the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria,
0002 or apply using Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE TARGETS: African, Coloured, Indian, and White Males and African,
Coloured, Indian, and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 25/59 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/176
Directorate: Legal Support
SALARY : R610 434 — R1 442 451 per annum, (The salary will be determined in
accordance with the OSD)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a LLB or as otherwise determined by the Minister of Justice and
Constitutional Development. Minimum of 8 years post-qualification legal
experience according to legal OSD. Experience in drafting and vetting of
contracts. Experience in research and / or drafting of legal opinions. A valid
driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of South African law.
Knowledge of legislation administration by the Department. Knowledge of
departmental policies and procedures. Job related skills: Abilities to interpret
acts and regulations. Ability to research the law. Ability to apply the law to set
of facts. Excellence drafting and writing ability. Communication (verbal and
written). Ability to present. Client relations and conflict management. Problem
solving. Computer literacy. Ability to manage. Ability to interpret the law.
Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Draft or vet all contracts. Receive instructions and draft or vet the required
contracts. Consult with functionaries or request further information if required.
Provide assistance to line functionaries with the negotiation of contracts where
necessary. Do research on contracts if necessary. Provide legal advice on
matters arising during the drafting of contracts. Manage external experts such
as counsel, who may be briefed to draft or vet contracts. Review standard
contracts periodically. Draft or vet other legal documents such as affidavits,
delegations, and correspondence of a legal nature, as well as reports. Receive
instructions and draft or vet the required other legal documents. Do research if
necessary. Provide legal advice on matters arising during drafting of other legal
documents. Manage external experts, such as counsel, who may be briefed to
draft or vet other legal documents. Provide legal opinions and general legal
advice. Receive instructions and request further information if necessary.
Conduct research. Consult with relevant stakeholders. Analyse court
precedents and written articles / publications. Draft legal opinions. Facilitate
obtainment of external legal opinions. Manage external experts, such as
counsel or the State Law Advisors, to ensure that opinions are provided
timeously. Ensure that external opinions are legally sound before they are
furnished to client. Ensure that applicable areas of the law are ventilated in the
legal opinions. Provide legal assistance in respect of Promotion of Access to
Information Act (PAIA) requests. Evaluate new requests and refer to the
relevant Deputy Information Officer (DIO) or line functionary. Advice the DIO or
line functionary on issues that may arise during the processing of request.
Monitor that the DIO or line functionary attends to the requests and finalise
them within the prescribed timeframes. Keep a register of all requests received
and the outcomes thereof. Manage staff and perform other middle
management tasks. Compile and sign performance agreements with stuff.
Review performance of all staff according to regulations and policies. Develop
and implement employee development plans. Address grievances within 30
days. Address misconduct of staff in terms of disciplinary code and
departmental policies and procedures. Provide supports and guidance to
subordinates. Provide inputs into the annual operational plan for the
Directorate. Provide information for the Director's monthly, quarterly, and
59
annual reports on performance against the Operational Plan. Preform other
middle management tasks as may be delegated by the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G.C Mashilo Tel No: (012) 312 9651
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van Der Walt Street) Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0001 or by email to Post176@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 25/60 : CHIEF MONITORING AND EVALUATION ANALYST REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/172
Directorate: Provincial Operations Support
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Northern Cape (Kimberley)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and National Diploma in Social Sciences / Development Studies /
Public Administration / Public Management or related equivalent qualification.
Minimum of 3 years' experience in monitoring and evaluation, research or
strategic planning. A valid driver's licence. Job related knowledge: Knowledge
and understanding of the government wide monitoring and evaluation system.
Knowledge of government monitoring and evaluation policies, standard
operating procedures, tools, information systems, planning, research
methodology and related legislation. Treasury regulations. Performance
auditing. Project and programme management. Quality improvement. Job
related skills: Computer literacy. Ability to present. Report writing ability.
Communication (verbal and written). Interpersonal relations. Project and
programme management. Information collection, analysis and interpretation.
Analytical thinking. Ability to customise and package information to user
requirements. Ability to travel.
DUTIES : Coordinate organisational performance against predetermined objectives.
Provide input during the department planning process. Schedule performance
verifications sessions with programmes on a quarterly basis. Conduct
information verification on performance information. Prepare performance
verification reporting tools. Conduct feedback sessions with various
programmes to reflect on performance for decision making. Assist with the
development of frameworks, guidance and systems to facilitate departmental
programme performance monitoring. Coordinate organisational performance
reporting. Compile departmental programme performance reports (quarterly,
mid-year and annual) based on verified performance. Compile strategic and
ad-hoc reports. Coordinate audit requests relating to performance information.
Manage branch responses to audit requests, findings and queries. Compile
management responses to audit findings / queries. Capacitate branches on the
fundamentals of performance auditing. Conduct capacity building / training on
management of performance information. Conduct capacity building on
reporting. Make presentation on the management of portfolio of evidence.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Leberegane Tel No: (053) 830 4060
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to:
Magistrate Court Building, 6th floor, Knight Street, Corner of Stead Street,
Kimberley, 8300 or by email to Post172@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 25/61 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/173
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Northern Cape (Kimberley)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and National Diploma in Nursing, Environmental Health, Safety
Management (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent qualification. Registered with
a recognised Professional Council. Minimum of 3 years of experience at
supervisory level in employee health and wellness environment. A valid driver’s
licence. Job related knowledge: Human resource management legislative
framework for the public service including: Employee Health and Wellness
Legislation (Frameworks, Policies, etc), Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
60
Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Public Service Regulations and
Public Service Act. Job related skills: Communication (verbal and written).
Strategic planning and leadership. Presentation and facilitation. Report writing.
People management. Monitoring and evaluation. Negotiation and conflict
resolution. Customer focus. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Implement and co-ordinate employee health and wellness services to promote
employee resilience. Conduct counselling / refer employees within 5 days in
accordance with the referral procedure and service level agreement. Render
specialised intervention within 24/72 hours in cases of crises / trauma. Promote
organisational culture to enhance service delivery through work-life balance
and life-skills programmes. Implement and co-ordinate needs based life-skills
programmes. Promote physical wellness and healthy life-style programmes.
Promote healthy life-style programmes through nutrition, education and
awareness. Promote physical wellness and departmental sports and recreation
activities. Implement and co-ordinate Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)
and Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), Tuberculosis (TB) and
Health Promotion Programmes. Co-ordinate HIV / AIDS, TB and Sexually
Transmitted Infection (STI) Management Programmes. Distribute condoms
and monitor usage in all offices. Co-ordinate health screening programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Oliphant Tel No: (053) 830 4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to:
Magistrate Court Building, 6th floor, Knight Street, Corner of Stead Street,
Kimberley, 8300 or by email to Post173@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 25/62 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINSTRATION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/178
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Cape Town)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Human Resources Management / Labour
Relations / Human Resource Development / Public Administration / Public
Management (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3
years’ experience at supervisory management in human resource
management. PERSAL Personnel Certificate, PERSAL Leave Administration
Certificate. Knowledge and experience in pension administration. A valid
driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Employment Equity Act. Public Service
Regulations. Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Public Service Act. Skills
Development Act. Labour Relations Act. Public Service Co-ordinating
Bargaining Council (PSCBC) resolutions. Promotion of Access to Information
Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Public Finance
Management Act. Job related skills: Analytical thinking. Communication (verbal
and written). Computer literacy. Report writing ability. Problem solving ability.
DUTIES : Implement and monitor human resources prescripts. Implement human
resource management resolutions. Keep employees well informed on new
developments of human resource prescripts. Monitor employee benefits and
conditions of service. Oversee processing of service terminations timeously.
Check and ensure correct completion / submission of pension forms including
nomination forms. Keep and maintain a database for submitted cases to
Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF). Follow-up on all outstanding
pension claims with GEPF. Assist deceased employee’s family to claim funeral
benefit from GEPF. Identify, draw and keep annual list of all employees due to
retirement. Make payment follow-ups and attend to pension queries. Provide
feedback to pension beneficiaries. Recover all liabilities from pension
proceeds. Coordinate or conduct service benefits workshops. Ensure
compliance with the relevant prescripts when processing allowances. Ensure
correct implementation of allowances on PERSAL e.g. housing acting etc.
Approve leave transactions and ensure that correct codes are used. Ensure
that leave applications comply with policies and prescripts. Ensure submission
of leave plans and adherence thereof. Verify correctness of incapacity
applications and ensure timeous submission to the Health Risk Manager.
Liaise with the Health Risk Manager regarding submitted incapacity
applications. Implement decision. Verify over granted leave prior to service
termination of officials. Check and verify leave gratuity / discounting
61
calculations and ensure correctness. Conduct workshops / induction on leave.
Conduct leave audits. Facilitate and implement performance management,
training and development. Check the database of Personal Development Plans
(PDP’s). Consolidate provincial inputs of Workplace Skills Plans (WSP) which
addresses skills requirements. Check compliance of submissions of
employees requiring training. Coordinate provincial training and development
activities. Consolidate training statistics. Approve Employee Performance
Management and Development System (EPMDS) documents on PERSAL.
Ensure that EPMS statistics is updated and submitted weekly. Arrange
moderating committee (MC) meetings. Check and quality assure MC outcome
letters. Compile memo for approval of performance rewards. Approve /
authorise the implemented performance rewards. Register System Change
Control (SCC) to correct service records of employees after payment of pay
progression. Do arrangements to process payments of employees who
terminated service with the Department. Arrange meetings to discuss
dissatisfaction cases. Monitor and implement recruitment and selection. Check
funded and vacant posts on PERSAL. Verify submission and supporting
documents for advertisement. Ensure that employment equity targets are
updated. Monitor adherence to recruitment and selection plans. Check minutes
and proceedings after the shortlisting process. Check submission for selection
of suitable candidates. Confirm security screening and qualification screening
results. Ensure that posts are filled within the prescribed period. Approve
appointments, transfers, translation on PERSAL. Ensure that officials are
correctly placed on PERSAL. Facilitate and monitor employee relations
processes. Monitor disciplinary cases submitted for compliance with
prescribed timeframes. Check progress on the resolution of cases with
National Office. Assist with the implementation of sanctions. Monitor
compilation statistics on disciplinary cases submitted. Facilitate meetings with
organised labour. Provide advice on grievances, misconduct and discipline
matters. Implement the disciplinary hearing sanctions. Facilitate the resolution
of grievances within the prescribed period.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mtintsilana Tel No: (021) 409 0569
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 4th floor,
No 2 Riebeeck Street, ABSA Building, Cape Town or by email to
Post178@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 25/63 : ASSISTANT LAW LECTURER: DEEDS TRAINING REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/159
Directorate: Deeds Training
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and National Diploma in Law / National Diploma Deeds Registration
Law / Buris / B Proc / LLB (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent qualification.
Minimum of 4 years’ experience at junior management level in Deeds
environment. Knowledge: Extensive and proven ability in knowing, interpreting,
and applying various legislation and acts pertaining to registration of Deeds,
including (but not limited to): Deeds Registry Act, Sectoral titles Act, Ordinance,
Proclamations, Case Law, and Common Law. Ability to address a professional
audience comfortably. Presentation skills. Time management skills. Computer
Soft skills. Research. Improvisation skills. Organizing and problem-solving.
Verbal and written communication skills. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Determine training needs for deeds: Analyse current and future deeds training
needs from performance development plan. Compile annual training
programme and submit for approval. Develop curriculum for stakeholders'
training and submit for approval. Facilitate quality assurance reports and
provide reports. Facilitate and coordinate deeds training: Present deeds
course/training to officials and stakeholders. Compile and submit course /
training report on all deeds training presented for approval. Facilitate the
outcome of the training conducted in terms of Quality Management System and
provide report. Manage training administration: Submit inputs and items for
deeds training Advisory Committee meetings. Verify deeds training statistics.
Coordinate or provide inputs on training manuals, Quality Management System
etc. Provide inputs on the updating of acts, procedure manuals, and circulars.
62
Manage library services: Identify books, publication, training aids that must be
procured for library. Manage audit updates of library materials and examiner’s
acts. Oversee update of accession register (database). Manage access to
library and loan register. Manage stocktaking.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Matsemela Tel No: (012) 338 7123 and Mr A Strydom Tel No: (012) 338
7123
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of
the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria,
0002 or apply using Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE targets: African, Coloured, Indian, and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian, and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 25/64 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL SERVICES REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/160
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Deeds Registry: Qonce
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and National Diploma or Degree in Accounting / Financial
Accounting / Financial Management / Management Accounting or related
equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years supervisory experience in
Financial environment. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act (PMFA). Knowledge of Treasury Regulations. Policies
procedures and prescripts. Financial systems including Accpac. Budgets and
reporting procedures. Good written and verbal communication skills. Financial
Management skills. Interpersonal skills. Computer software skills (good excel
skills). Problem Solving and Decision-Making skills. Time Management skills.
Budget forecasting skills.
DUTIES : Manage budget. Cost Demand Management Plan. Confirm availability of
funds. Monitor and control income and expenditure trends and advise. Provide
comments on In-Year Monitoring report. Provide inputs for adjustment of
budget. Manage revenue, cash, and banking services. Monitor banking of state
money. Monitor administration of Petty Cash. Monitor exempt transaction
report. Manage debtors. Monitor recovery of outstanding debt and collection
progress report. Analyse comments on debtors and revenue reports and take
corrective measures. Oversee application of unapplied cash. Oversee the
opening of accounts. Oversee suspension of overdue accounts. Make
recommendations on dispute and queries, respond and monitor queries report.
Review credit notes, B-accounts and related parties. Oversee debit and credit
notes. Control internal debtors. Manage of creditors. Monitor payment of
suppliers / service providers. Approve invoices on the system. Approve
adjustments and clear suspense account. Review processed reconciliation.
Verify S&T claims and advances.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. VC Bomela or Mr P Sabasaba Tel No: (043) 642 2741
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Eastern
Cape Deeds Registry: Qonce at 113 Alexander Road, Qonce, 5600 Eastern
Cape. Candidates are also encouraged to apply by using this link http://deeds-
recruit.deeds.gov.za before the closing date, as no late applications will be
considered. Applications and supporting documents sent to us that are not
specified in the advertisement for the post that you are applying for will not be
accepted. Failure to do this will result in the application being disqualified
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian, and White Males and Coloured, Indian, and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 25/65 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/165
Directorate: Human Resource and Records Management Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Labour Relations / Human Resources
Management / Labour Law / LLB or related equivalent qualification. Minimum
of 3 years supervisory experience in the field of Labour Law / Labour Relations.
A valid driver’s licence. Experience and knowledge of the following legislation:
Public Service Prescripts, Labour Law / Relations Prescripts (BCEA; LRA; EE;
OHS; Skills Development), PAJA and PAIA. Investigation skills. Report writing
63
skills. Computer literacy. Written and verbal communication skills. Negotiation
skills. Mediation and Conflict resolution skills. Problem solving. Interpersonal
skills. Presentation and facilitation skills. Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the prompt finalisation of misconduct cases. Monitor implementation
and adherence of prescripts governing misconducts. Monitor coordination of
the appointment of chairpersons and initiators. Make representations at
disciplinary enquiries. Monitor the implementation of the outcome of formal and
informal disciplinary processes. Coordinate and facilitate appointment of
external service providers in complex cases. Provide efficient and effective
advice on disciplinary matters. Seek, analyse and implement. Assistant legal
opinions on labour relations cases. Facilitate the prompt finalisation of
grievance cases. Monitor implementation and adherence of prescripts
governing grievances. Provide effective advice towards the resolution of
grievances. Refer grievances to the Executing Authority, and PSC when
necessary. Monitor Implementation of the outcome of grievances. Provide
efficient and effective advice on grievance. Facilitate the prompt finalisation of
external disputes. Obtain mandate and / or negotiate settlement agreement to
resolve disputes, where applicable. Implement the outcomes of awards and
rulings. Facilitate and monitor labour court processes emanating from labour
relations cases. Implement capacity building programmes. Facilitate training to
business units. Conduct training on labour relations policies and other identified
areas. Provide inputs for the compilation labour relations information leaflets.
Manage relationships with organised labour and assist in collective bargaining
processes. Assist with the preparation for and attend DBC meetings.
Administer policy consultation meetings. Attend to industrial unrest. Promote
and enforce a cordial relationship with shop stewards. Assist with the
compilation of labour relation policies, guidelines and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Tshinavhe Tel No: (012) 338 7324
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of
the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria,
0002 or apply using Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, and Indian Males and Coloured, Indian, and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 25/66 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/169
Directorate: Quality Assurance and Administration
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : North West (Mahikeng)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Information Management / Information
Science / Records Management (NQF Level 6) or National Diploma in
Business Administration or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 2 years’
experience in restitution, records management environment, registry services.
A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of statistical,
registry and records management. Knowledge of projects and process.
Knowledge of government legislation that governs National Archives and
Records Service Act. Job related skills: Time management skills. Planning and
organising skills. Decision making skills. Computer literacy. Analytical skills.
Telephone etiquette. Interpersonal and communication (verbal and written)
skills. Ability to carry out registry and records management activities. The ability
to always work efficiently and effectively.
DUTIES : Develop, administer and maintain restitution land claims database. Maintain
the implementation of file plan in the office. Check the quality of standardised
files. Compile the report of standardised files and inventory. Update inventory
of standardised files. Update inventory of approved Section 42D’s. Provide
land restitution claims related information. Compile spreadsheet on letters
complied for claimants. Give claimants accurate information regarding the
status of their claims. Respond to general enquiries about the lodgement of
land claims. Update statistical information for the office in all land claims lodged
and settled. Provide registry services. Receive and issue brown files not
scanned on Electronic Document Management System (EDMS). Receive and
register incoming files. Keep records of files and collected information for
existing land claims. Ensure that registry rules are adhered to by officials.
Monitor access to registry system. Monitor and control movement of files by
64
registering them on movement control sheet. Conduct file audit to ensure that
no files are kept for more than 5 days in officials office unless the official ask
for extension. Maintain office search. Ensure all files transferred to registry are
recorded from clients. File indexing. Spot check on file at registry / incident
audit. Maintaining filling system. Capture approved projects or files for easy
retrieval in registry and create file number for approved Section 42D, Section
42C and Section 42E. Check all Section 42D’s dispatched to and received from
national office if all documents are signed and returned same as was
dispatched. Update and provide land claims information to project teams to
enable the acceptance and gazetting of claims. Receive and register incoming
and approved files. Update the status of the claims on approved acceptance
research report, non-compliant, dismissed, deferred and gazetted claims.
Ensure that new information received from operational units is captured on
spreadsheet. Keep statistics of files captured on spreadsheet and report
monthly. Coordinate and execute other administrative duties. Provide clerical
support services to the directorate. Provide personnel administration clerical
support services. Provide financial administration services in the component.
Process documents for archival and disposal. Operate office machine in
relation to registry functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Dipudi Tel No: (018) 388 7138
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Cnr
James Moroka and Sekame Drive, West Gallery, Megacity, Mmabatho, 2735
or by email to Post169@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities
POST 25/67 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/175
Directorate: Rural Infrastructure Development
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Cape Town)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Public Administration / Public
Management / Business Administration / Business Management or relevant
equivalent qualification. Minimum of 2 years' experience in administration
environment. A valid driver's licence. Job related knowledge: Public Service
Regulations, Financial procedures, Treasury regulations and Basic Accounting
System (BAS). Job related skills: Computer literacy, Interpersonal relations,
Organising and Planning, Communication (verbal and written), Analytical
thinking, Problem solving ability, Financial management and report writing.
Work under pressure, Teamwork and willingness to work extra hours.
DUTIES : Provide financial management services. Facilitate, plan, oversee, drive the
timely and accurate preparation of the annual budget in line with Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations Strategic priorities weekly /
monthly / quarterly. Compile Demand Management Plan (DMP), Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF), adjustment estimates and Estimated
National Expenditure (ENE). Oversee effective, efficient and economical
utilisation of funds. Document and communicate procedures for accessing and
shifting of funds. Coordinate budgeting, audit and financial functions. Verify
Transport and Subsistence (T&S) and sundry and overtime payment.
Administer the procurement of goods and services. Compile, manage and
maintain of the Demand Management Plan. Facilitate Supply Chain
Management (SCM) services. Facilitate monthly, quarterly and annual
reporting on SCM related matters. Control over safekeeping, utilisation and
maintenance of all assets. Ensure proper administration of sourcing and
evaluation of quotations. Capture and authorise of goods / services on LOGIS
system. Handle queries from internal and external clients relating to supply
chain matters. Render general office support services. Supervise, motivate and
develop staff through individual performance agreements. Provide assistance
in the developing / reviewing of operational plan. Compile various submissions
/ memoranda and responses. Attend to queries from Internal Audit. Administer
leave forms / attend to queries. Make travel / conference bookings and
confirmations. Provide secretariat services. Checking draft minutes for
accuracy against recording of notes. Administer asset. Maintain asset register.
Liaise with asset unit during asset verification. Manage outgoing and on-going
assets. Allocate equipment to officials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dlamini Tel No: (012) 312 9295
65
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 4th floor,
No 2 Riebeeck Street, ABSA Building, Cape Town or by email to
Post175@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 25/68 : DRS SYSTEM SUPPORT OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/161
Directorate: Registration And Information Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Free State (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Information Technology / Degree in
Computer Science: A+ / N+ / MCSE / Linux+ or related equivalent qualification.
Minimum of 2 years relevant experience. Experience with hardware and
software. Experience with servers. Experience in IT technical support.
Appropriate server and network management experience. Technical aspects of
information and communications technology goods and services. Information
Technology Acts and Policies. Internal control and risk management. Planning
skills. Organize skills. Communication skills (verbal and written). Interpersonal
skills.
DUTIES : Providing desktop support to end users. Install, update, and configure End-
user devices. Install, update and support business applications. Investigate,
resolve, or escalate and monitor logged calls. Providing network support. Assist
end-users with LAN connectivity. Monitor availability and performance of
network. Assess the need for, request and monitor the process of installation
of network points. Investigate, resolve, or escalate and monitor logged calls.
Provide sever room support. Monitor server room environment and take
remedial action. Monitor compliance with server room maintenance contract
deliverables. Monitor access to server room and keep register. Assist with
installation of customer-replaceable parts for server equipment. Implementing
information system security measures. Check that users are registered on the
domain. Check Antivirus is installed, updated, and running. Remove all
unauthorised applications and software. Create and maintain an IT asset
register or database. Providing ICT reports. Provide incident and system
availability reports. Provide inputs to SLA non-compliance report. Provide
support in the procurement and disposal of IT assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. IB Khanyile or Ms D Tshabalala Tel No: (051) 403 0300
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Free
State Deeds Registry, New Government Building, Corner Aliwal and Nelson
Mandela Drive Bloemfontein, 9301. Candidates are also encouraged to apply
by using this link http://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, and Indian Males, African, Coloured, and Indian
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 25/69 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/162
Chief Directorate: Deeds Finance and Corporate Support
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Secretarial / Office Administration /
Management or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years'
experience in rendering a support service to senior management. Knowledge
on the relevant legislation / policies / prescripts and procedures. Telephone
etiquette. Basic knowledge on financial administration. Sound organisational
skills. Computer literacy (MS Office). Good interpersonal relations. High level
of reliability. Written communication skills. Language skills. Ability to
communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds. Ability to do research and analyse documents and situations.
Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good grooming and presentation. Self-
management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial / receptionist support service to the manager. Receives
telephone calls in an environment where, in addition to the calls for the senior
manager, discretion is required to decide to whom the call should be forwarded.
Finalise and resolve relevant enquiries as part of the job’s operational
66
responsibilities. Performs advanced typing work. Operates and ensures that
office equipment, e.g. Printers and photocopiers are in good working order.
Record the engagements of the senior manager. Utilizes discretion to decide
whether to accept / decline or refer to other employees' requests for meetings,
based on the assessed importance and urgency of the matter. Coordinates
with and sensitizes / advises the manager regarding engagements. Compiles
realistic schedules for appointments. Render administrative support service.
Ensures the effective flow of information and documents to and from the office
of the manager. Ensures the safe keeping of all documentation in the office of
the manager in line with relevant legislation and policies. Obtains inputs,
collates and compiles reports, e.g. Progress reports, Monthly reports and
management reports. Scrutinizes routine submissions / reports and make
notes and / or recommendations for the manager. Respond to enquiries
received from internal and external stakeholders. Drafts documents as
required. Do filing of documents for the manager and the unit where required.
Collects, analyses and collates information requested by the manager. Clarifies
instructions and notes on behalf of the manager. Ensures that travel
arrangements are well coordinated. Prioritizes issues in the office of the
manager. Manages the leave register and telephone accounts for the unit.
Handles procurement of standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. for
the activities of the manager and the unit. Obtains the necessary signatures on
documents like procurement advices and monthly salary reports. Provides
support to manager regarding meetings. Scrutinizes documents to determine
actions / information / other documents required for meetings. Collects and
compiles all necessary documents for the manager to inform him / her on the
contents. Records minutes / decisions and communicates to relevant role-
players, follow-up on progress made. Prepares briefing notes for the manager
as required. Coordinates logistical arrangements for meetings when required.
Supports the manager with the administration for the managers budget.
Collects and coordinates all the documents that relate to the manager's budget.
Assists manager in determining funding requirements for purposes of MTEF
submissions. Keeps records for expenditure commitments, monitors
expenditure and alerts manager of possible over-and under spending. Checks
and correlates BAS reports to ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly.
Identifies the need to move funds between items, consults with the manager
and compiles draft memos for this purpose. Compares the MTEF allocation
with the requested budget and informs the manager of changes. Studies the
relevant public service and departmental prescripts / policies and other
documents and ensure that the application thereof is understood properly.
Remains up to date with regard to the prescripts / policies and procedures
applicable to his / her work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to
the manager. Remains abreast with the procedures and processes that apply
in the office of the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Tshinavhe Tel No: (012) 338 7324
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of
the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria,
0002 or apply using Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian, and White Males and Coloured, Indian,
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 25/70 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/163
Chief Directorate: Legal Support and Deeds Training
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Secretarial / Office Administration /
Management or related equivalent qualifications. Minimum of 3 years'
experience in rendering a support service to senior management. Knowledge
on the relevant legislation / policies / prescripts and procedures. Telephone
etiquette. Basic knowledge on financial administration. Sound organisational
skills. Computer literacy (MS Office). Good interpersonal relations. High level
of reliability. Written communication skills. Language skills. Ability to
communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds. Ability to do research and analyse documents and situations.
67
Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good grooming and presentation. Self-
management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial / receptionist support service to the manager. Receives
telephone calls in an environment where, in addition to the calls for the senior
manager, discretion is required to decide to whom the call should be forwarded.
Finalise and resolve relevant enquiries as part of the job’s operational
responsibilities. Performs advanced typing work. Operates and ensures that
office equipment, e.g. Printers and photocopiers are in good working order.
Record the engagements of the senior manager. Utilizes discretion to decide
whether to accept / decline or refer to other employees' requests for meetings,
based on the assessed importance and urgency of the matter. Coordinates
with and sensitizes / advises the manager regarding engagements. Compiles
realistic schedules for appointments. Render administrative support service.
Ensures the effective flow of information and documents to and from the office
of the manager. Ensures the safe keeping of all documentation in the office of
the manager in line with relevant legislation and policies. Obtains inputs,
collates and compiles reports, e.g. Progress reports, Monthly reports and
management reports *Scrutinizes routine submissions / reports and make
notes and / or recommendations for the manager. Respond to enquiries
received from internal and external stakeholders. Drafts documents as
required. Do filing of documents for the manager and the unit where required.
Collects, analyses and collates information requested by the manager. Clarifies
instructions and notes on behalf of the manager. Ensures that travel
arrangements are well coordinated. Prioritizes issues in the office of the
manager. Manages the leave register and telephone accounts for the unit.
Handles procurement of standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. for
the activities of the manager and the unit. Obtains the necessary signatures on
documents like procurement advices and monthly salary reports. Provides
support to manager regarding meetings. Scrutinizes documents to determine
actions / information / other documents required for meetings. Collects and
compiles all necessary documents for the manager to inform him/her on the
contents. Records minutes / decisions and communicates to relevant role-
players, follow-up on progress made. Prepares briefing notes for the manager
as required. Coordinates logistical arrangements for meetings when required.
Supports the manager with the administration for the manager’s budget.
Collects and coordinates all the documents that relate to the manager's budget.
Assists manager in determining funding requirements for purposes of MTEF
submissions. Keeps records for expenditure commitments, monitors
expenditure and alerts manager of possible over-and under spending. Checks
and correlates BAS reports to ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly.
Identifies the need to move funds between items, consults with the manager
and compiles draft memos for this purpose. Compares the MTEF allocation
with the requested budget and informs the manager of changes. Studies the
relevant public service and departmental prescripts / policies and other
documents and ensure that the application thereof is understood properly.
Remains up to date with regard to the prescripts / policies and procedures
applicable to his / her work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to
the manager. Remains abreast with the procedures and processes that apply
in the office of the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Tshinavhe Tel No: (012) 338 7324
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of
the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria,
0002 or apply using Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered.
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian, and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian,
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 25/71 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/174
Directorate: Legal Support
SALARY : R262 968 – R1 155 777 per annum, (The salary will be determined in
accordance with the OSD requirements)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
certificate and an LLB Degree or as otherwise determined by the Minister of
Justice and Constitutional Development. MR 1: LLB Degree or equivalent. MR
68
2: LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 1 year post qualification
experience in the legal profession. MR 3: LLB Degree or equivalent plus a
minimum of 2 years post qualification experience in the legal profession. MR
4: LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 8-year post qualification
experience in the legal profession. MR 5: LLB Degree or equivalent plus a
minimum of 14 years post qualification experience in the legal profession. A
valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of SA law. Job related
skills: Ability to interpret the law. Ability to research the law. Writing ability. Ability
to present. Client relations. Communication (verbal and written). Computer
literacy. Teamwork. Ability to work under pressure as well as then willingness
to work irregular hours.
DUTIES : Draft or vet all contracts. Receive instructions and draft or vet the required
contracts. Consult with functionaries or request further information if required.
Provide assistance to line functionaries with the negotiation of contracts where
necessary. Do research on contracts if necessary. Provide legal advice on
matters arising during the drafting of contracts. Manage external experts, such
as counsel, who may be briefed to draft or vet contracts. Periodically review
standard contracts. Draft or vet other legal documents such as affidavits,
delegations and correspondence of a legal nature, as well as reports. Receive
instructions and draft or vet the required other legal documents. Do research if
necessary. Provide legal advice on matters arising during the drafting of other
legal documents. Manage external experts, such as counsel, who may be
briefed to draft or vet other legal documents. Provide legal opinions and
general legal advice. Receive instructions and request further information if
necessary. Conduct research. Consult with relevant stakeholders. Analyse
court precedents and written articles / publications. Draft legal opinions.
Facilitate obtainment of external legal opinions. Manage external experts, such
as counsel or the State Law Advisers, to ensure that opinions are provided
timeously. Ensure that external opinions are legally sound before they are
furnished to the client. Ensure that the applicable areas of the law are ventilated
in the legal opinions. Provide legal assistance in respect of Promotion of
Access to Information Act (PAIA) requests. Evaluate new requests and refer to
the relevant Deputy Information Officer (DIO) or line functionary. Advise the
DIO or line functionary on issues that may arise during the process of requests.
Monitor that the DIO or line functionary attends to the requests and finalises
them within the prescribed timeframes. Keep a register of all received and
outcomes thereof.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G.C Mashilo Tel No: (012) 312 9651
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van Der Walt Street) Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0001 or by email to Post174@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets: African, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 25/72 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/170
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of registry duties, practices as
well as the ability to capture data, and operate a computer. Working knowledge
and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Job related skills. Planning
and organisation. Computer literacy. communication (verbal and written).
Interpersonal relations. Ability to work within a team.
DUTIES : Manage operations to achieve planned outcomes. Provide registry counter
services. Attend to clients. Handle telephonic and other enquiries received.
Receive and register hand delivered mail / files. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Receive all mail. Sort, register and dispatch mail. Distribute
notices on registry issues. Render an effective filing and record management
service. Open and close files according to record classification system. Filing /
storage, tracing (electronically / manually) and retrieval of documents and files.
Operate office machines in relation to the registry function. Process documents
for archiving and / disposal. Electronic scanning of files. Sort and package files
69
for archives and distribution. Compile list of documents to be archived and
submit to the supervisor. Keep records for archived documents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MO Fakude Tel No: (013) 754 8032
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 7th Floor
Block E, Bateleur Office Park Building, 17 Van Rensburg Street, Nelspruit,
1200 or by email to Post170@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and White Females and
Persons with Disabilities.
POST 25/73 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/164
Directorate: Human Resource and Records Management Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate or related equivalent qualification. No experience required.
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
and operate a computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and
retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the
work in registry. Planning and organisation. Computer literacy. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork.
DUTIES : Implement human resource administration practices. Recruitment and
Selection (Advertisements, Appointments, Transfer, Verification of
qualifications, Secretariat functions at interviews, Absorptions, Probationary
periods e.g.). Implement conditions of services (Leave, Housing, Medical,
Injury. on Duty, Long Service Recognition, Overtime, Relocation, Pension,
Allowances, PILIR or etc.). Performance Management. Termination of service,
Address human resource administration enquiries. Respond to enquiries from
internal and external clients.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Tshinavhe Tel No: (012) 338 7324
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Office of
the Chief Registrar of Deeds at 600 Lillian Ngoyi Street, Berea Park, Pretoria,
0002 or apply using Deeds Online Job Application Portal;
https://deedsportal.deeds.gov.za/ (Please separate Application Form for each
post) before the closing date as no late applications will be considered
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
70
ANNEXURE J
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are
encouraged to apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and
the NPA Employment Equity Strategy 2022-2026, will take highest preference in selection of suitable
candidates.
CLOSING DATE : 03 August 2026
NOTE : Applicants must apply by submitting applications on the most recent Z83 form
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a comprehensive CV ONLY
(with detailed experience information). Failure to do so will result in your
application being disqualified. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on or
before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation
report issued by SAQA (only when shortlisted). It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to
provide proof of such evaluation (only when shortlisted). All applications must
reach the NPA on/or before the closing date. No late applications will be
accepted/processed. Documents should not be password protected, and ZIP
files will be blocked. The NPA cannot be held responsible for server delays. All
applications must reach the NPA on/or before the closing date. No late
applications will be accepted/processed. The applicant’s attention is drawn to
the fact that the NPA uses an Electronic Response Handling System in terms
of e-mailed applications. Please do not contact the NPA directly after you have
e-mailed your applications to enquire if your application(s) have been received.
If you have not received an acknowledgement of receipt within one week after
the closing date, then you can contact the NPA. The NPA reserves the right not
to fill any particular position. If you do not hear from us within (6) six months
from the closing date of the advert, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Successful candidates will be subjected to a security clearance
of at least confidential. Appointment to this position will be provisional, pending
the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the
interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed
as part of the verification process. A valid driver’s license will be a requirement
where applicable. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments which are, a practical exercise and an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics
of which will be communicated by the NPA. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the
technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will
undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities,
behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. A Pre-entry
certificate obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is required
for all SMS applicants for Public Service Act positions in the NPA (SMS pre-
entry certificate to be submitted prior to appointment). NPA Act appointments
are exempted from the pre-entry certificate requirement. This is a Public
Service specific training programme. The name of the course is Certificate for
entry into the SMS. The full details can be sourced from the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/..
Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021 a new application form for
employment (Z83) is in use. The new application for employment form can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect (old) application for employment
(Z83), it will not be considered. NB! Applicants Who Are Successful Must
Please note that the NPA is not in a position to pay resettlement costs.
ERRATUM: DDPP: Durban - Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions with Ref
No: Recruit 2026/204 advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 17 dated
22 May 2026 is hereby withdrawn.
71
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/74 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2026/205
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 625 709 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Johannesburg (STU)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the
NPA Act, 32 of 1998.Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Extensive prosecutorial or
litigation experience regarding common law offences relating to tax
evasions/avoidance, commercial crimes, fraud and related matters. Sound
knowledge and understanding of SARS functions and financial accounting
background. Good advocacy and legal drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or
criminal procedure. Good interpersonal, analytical, presentation and
communication skills. Computer skills. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director of Public Prosecutions. Manage,
train and guide Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all
matters, including complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest
court of appeal and the constitutional court. Investigate and prosecute cases.
Provide legal oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal
casework. Studying and research law, enquiring and dockets relating to crimes
and advising and decisions thereon. Instituting and conducting criminal
proceedings in any court, including drawing up chargesheets and indictments,
interviewing prospective witnesses and examining and cross-examining
witnesses as well as presenting arguments in court to argue cases. Consult on
a regular basis with all relevant stakeholders and SARS officials. Manage and
keep SARS records for all criminal prosecutions and statistics. Map out a
strategic planning for the division and lead staff members towards achieving
strategic objectives. Development, performance management and assessment
of staff members. Deal with representations and complaints. Ensure that a high
standard of professional work is being carried out. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Charity Matika Tel No: (011) 220 4235
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026205@npa.gov.za
POST 25/75 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2026/206
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 625 709 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the
NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Extensive prosecutorial or
litigation experience regarding common law offences relating to tax
evasions/avoidance, commercial crimes, fraud and related matters. Good
advocacy and legal drafting skills. Strong organisational leadership skills.
Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to think strategically and
innovatively and management. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director. Manage, train and guide
Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all matters, including
complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest court of appeal and
the constitutional court. Investigate and prosecute cases. Provide legal
oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal casework. Study
case dockets and other documents relating to corruption matters, criminal
matters, make and review decisions with regard to the institution of criminal
proceedings. Prepare cases for court including the acquisition of additional
evidence and drafting charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
72
Present the state’s case in court, including examination and cross-examination
of witnesses and addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Study
appeals and reviews, prepare opinions and heads of argument and argue
cases in the appropriate court. Appear in motion applications pertaining to
criminal matters. Map out strategic planning for the division and lead staff
members towards achieving the strategic objectives. Oversee resources and
align them to strategic objectives. Development, performance management
and assessment of staff members. Deal with representations and complaints.
Ensure that a high standard of professional work is being carried out. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392 8753
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026206@npa.gov.za
POST 25/76 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2026/258
National Prosecutions Services
Re-advert.
SALARY : R1 625 709 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Knowledge and experience in Strategic and Operations
Management. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Extensive prosecutorial or
litigation experience regarding common law offences relating to tax
evasions/avoidance, commercial crimes, fraud and related matters. Good
advocacy and legal drafting skills. Strong organisational leadership skills.
Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to think strategically and
innovatively and management. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director. Manage, train and guide
Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all matters, including
complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest court of appeal and
the constitutional court. Investigate and prosecute cases. Provide legal
oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal casework. Study
case dockets and other documents relating to corruption matters, criminal
matters, make and review decisions with regard to the institution of criminal
proceedings. Prepare cases for court including the acquisition of additional
evidence and drafting charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Present the state’s case in court, including examination and cross-examination
of witnesses and addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Study
appeals and reviews, prepare opinions and heads of argument and argue
cases in the appropriate court. Appear in motion applications pertaining to
criminal matters. Map out strategic planning for the division and lead staff
members towards achieving the strategic objectives. Oversee resources and
align them to strategic objectives. Development, performance management
and assessment of staff members. Deal with representations and complaints.
Ensure that a high standard of professional work is being carried out. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026258@npa.gov.za
POST 25/77 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2026/207 (X2 POSTS)
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
Re-adverts.
SALARY : R1 625 709 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
73
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Demonstrate
experience in managing motion proceedings. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Ability to apply technical /professional knowledge and skills.
PRECCA, POCA, CPA51/177, Interpretation Act 33/1957. Performance
Management. Superior Court Act 10/2013 and all rules of courts specifically in
the superior court including the Constitution Court. Knowledge and experience
in money laundering and complex corruption cases. Knowledge of State
Capture recommendations and offences related threats. Preferred knowledge
of FATF. People and Programme Management and Empowerment, Strategic
Capability and Leadership. Project Management. Financial Management and
head investigations Good interpersonal, analytical, presentation and
communication skills. A valid drivers’ licence.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director. Manage, train and guide
Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all matters, including
complex / high profile matters, in the High Court, the Highest Court of Appeal
and the Constitutional Court. Study and manage case dockets and other
documents relating to criminal matters, make and review decisions with regard
to the institution of criminal proceedings. Draft charge sheet and indictments.
Lead investigations in accordance with Chapter 5 of the NPA Act. Prepare
cases for court including the acquisition of additional evidence and drafting
charge sheet, indictments and other court documents. Present the state’s case
in court, including examination and cross-examination of witnesses and
addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Study appeals and reviews,
prepare opinions and heads of argument and argue cases in the appropriate
court including Constitutional Court. Appear in motion applications pertaining
to criminal matters. Ensure that strategic objectives of the NPA and unit are
achieved. Oversee resources and align them to strategic objectives.
Development, performance management and assessment of staff members.
Deal with representations and complaints. Ensure that a high standard of
professional work is being carried out. Adherence to the highest ethical
standards and professional conduct in keeping with the LPC, NPA values, and
the International Standards of Prosecution and prosecutors. Promote partner
integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction
with partners in the criminal justice system. Deal with voluminous and complex
cases within a short time frame. Deal with novel questions of law by way of
opinion/review applications appeal. Engage with internal and external
stakeholders. Attend to mutual legal assistance and extradition matters. The
drafting of all processes and the engagement with foreign authorities.
Investigate and prosecute cases as per the mandate of the Investigating
Directorate Against Corruption. Provide legal oversight and guidance in
investigation projects and legal casework. Study case dockets and other
documents relating to corruption matters, criminal matters, make and review
decisions with regard to the institution of criminal proceedings. Prepare cases
for court including the acquisition of additional evidence and drafting charge
sheets, indictments and other court documents. Map out strategic planning for
the Division and lead staff members towards achieving the strategic objectives.
Draft and manage the summons process. Lead enquiries in respect of
summonsed persons. Make application for centralization. Make application for
the addition of racketeering charges. Make applications for extradition, draft all
necessary process, and engage with foreign authorities. Make applications for
mutual legal assistance, draft all necessary process, and engage with foreign
authorities. Liaise with the Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) to effect AFU process in
relevant cases including international asset recovery. Liaise with the Witness
Protection Unit (WPU) where necessary. Study, manage, and check
voluminous and complex criminal cases and decide whether the matter is
ready for the institution of prosecution. Draft and manage: the prosecution
strategy plan, witness plan, exhibits plan, and docket security plan. Conduct
prosecutions in regional or high court from enrolment to finalization including
bail, motion applications, pre-trial conferences, conducting of the trial, lodging
of state appeals, responding to appeals by the accused, and arguing
constitutional court matters where necessary. Appear and argue in motion
court, the Supreme Court of Appeal, and Constitutional Court as necessary.
Participate on stakeholder forums, case management forums, and any other
forums on instruction by the Investigating Director. Formulate opinions on novel
questions of law, and other legal matters. Prepare applications or reply to
motions and argue in motion court. Respond to parliamentary queries when
74
requested. Formulate and/ comment on prosecution policies and/ or directives.
Manage and supervise staff including mentoring, coaching, the provision of
legal guidance, performance management, individual skills assessment, skills
transfer.
ENQUIRIES : Maureen Dibetle Tel No: (012) 845 7727
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026207@npa.gov.za
POST 25/78 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2026/208
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 625 709 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office (OCC)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the
NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy, well-
developed skills in legal research and legal drafting skills. At least FIVE (5)
years’ experience in criminal procedure and the POCA legislation is key. Willing
to travel. Good knowledge of criminal procedure is key. Able to work extended
hours. Good interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills.
The ability to act independently. Strong computer skills will be required. A valid
driver's license.
DUTIES : To exercise oversight on any decision to prosecute, and to give any necessary
advice and report to the Head of the Organised Crime Component. To read and
interpret all documents that is developed by the FATF and give guidance /
opinions to the NPS on the said documents. To provide high level and well
researched opinions and reports to the Head of the Organised Crime
Component. To manage and direct governance and operations in the Money
Laundering Component. To continuously analyse, review and monitor
operational performance of the regional offices in order, inter alia, to identify
operational deficiencies and to monitor the achievement of strategic objectives
and annual targets. To develop any performance or delivery improvement plans
or make such interventions as circumstances may require. To monitor and
review strategy and operations. To oversee the development and
implementation of appropriate employee performance management systems.
To ensure that action plans are in place to promote good stakeholder and
partner engagement. To arrange and coordinate internal and external
meetings. To participate in all stakeholder meetings. To meet with relevant
stakeholders on a regular basis in order to effectively execute the mandate of
Money Laundering Component. To prepare presentations for the Executive
Committee and the Management Committee. To identify training gaps and
communicate same to the head of the Training Component.
ENQUIRIES : Glittering Hlophe Tel No: (012) 845 6336
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026208@npa.gov.za
POST 25/79 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2026/255
(Re-advert)
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 625 709 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Limpopo (Polokwane) (OCC)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Knowledge and experience in Strategic and Operations
Management. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy, well-
developed skills in legal research and legal drafting skills. Knowledge of civil
and /or criminal procedure. Experience or knowledge in POCA legislation will
be an added advantage. Good interpersonal, analytical, presentation and
communication skills. The ability to act independently. Strong computer skills
will be required. A valid driver's license.
75
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director. Manage, train and guide
Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all matters, including
complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest court of appeal and
the constitutional court. Investigate and prosecute cases. Provide legal
oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal casework. Study
case dockets and other documents relating to corruption matters, criminal
matters, make and review decisions with regard to the institution of criminal
proceedings. Prepare cases for court including the acquisition of additional
evidence and drafting charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Present the state’s case in court, including examination and cross-examination
of witnesses and addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Study
appeals and reviews, prepare opinions and heads of argument and argue
cases in the appropriate court. Appear in motion applications pertaining to
criminal matters. Map out strategic planning for the division and lead staff
members towards achieving the strategic objectives. Oversee resources and
align them to strategic objectives. Development, performance management
and assessment of staff members. Deal with representations and complaints.
Ensure that a high standard of professional work is being carried out. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026255@npa.gov.za
POST 25/80 : CHIEF PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 625 709 per annum (Level 14), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Modimolle Ref No: Recruit 2026/209
CPP: Thohoyandou Ref No: Recruit 2026/256
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Organisational and leadership skills. Ability to
think strategically and innovatively. Ability to manage the performance of the
Cluster. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. General computer
literacy and knowledge of programs in Microsoft Office. Decision making ability.
A valid driver’s license is a requirement.
DUTIES : Manage the performance of the NPA personnel in the lower courts, aligning
such performance to the strategic plans of the NPA. Manage and oversee
resources of the cluster and align them to the objectives of the NPA. Manage,
train and guide Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all litigations in the
cluster. Study, decide and recommend on budget and expenditure in line with
the decision of NPA Administration and NPS. Manage the institution of/and
conduct criminal proceedings on behalf of the State, in any court, including
drawing up charge sheets and indictments, interviewing prospective witnesses
and examining and cross-examining witnesses as well as presenting
arguments in court. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
Compile reports and enter into correspondence on matters and activities
pertaining to the cluster. Map out and implement strategic interventions for the
cluster to guide prosecutors towards achieving strategic objectives. Check and
ensure that a high standard of professional work is being carried out.
ENQUIRIES : Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Modimolle e mail: Recruit2026209@npa.gov.za
CPP: Thohoyandou e mail: Recruit2026256@npa.gov.za
POST 25/81 : SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (CM-1), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: East Rand (Kempton Park) Ref No: Recruit 2026/210
CPP: Empangeni Ref No: Recruit 2026/211
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience. Five
(5) years’ experience in legal practice will be an added advantage.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Manage, give
76
guidance to and train prosecutors. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding
investigations and giving instructions in reasonably complex or more difficult
common law and statutory offences. Able to draft charge sheets and complex
court documents. Ability to act independently without constant supervision.
Must have good administrative skills. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise allocation of work and management of performance for
lower-level prosecutors including trainee Prosecutor. Train and guide
Prosecutors including trainee Prosecutors and stakeholders in preparation of
case dockets and deciding on the institution and conduct criminal proceedings.
Represent the State in all courts. Present and assist prosecutors including
trainee Prosecutors in presentation of state’s case court, lead and cross
examination of witnesses and address court on inter alia conviction and the
like. Attend to representations and complaints. Attend to instructions of the
Chief Prosecutor and the Director of Public Prosecutions. Lead Prosecutors
towards achieving strategic goals and operational targets set by NPA, DPP
office and CPP. Perform all duties including administrative duties related
thereto, in accordance with code of conduct, policy directives of NPA. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: East Rand (Kempton Park) Y Mbawana Tel No: (011) 220 4083
CPP: Empangeni Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392 8753
APPLICATIONS : CPP: East Rand (Kempton Park) e mail: Recruit2026210@npa.gov.za
CPP: Empangeni e mail: Recruit2026211@npa.gov.za
POST 25/82 : SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR (COMMUNITY PROSECUTION)
National Prosecution Service
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (Level LP 9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Mpumalanga Ref No: Recruit 2026/212
DPP: Makhanda (Gqeberha) Ref No: Recruit 2026/213
DPP: Pretoria (Vanderbijlpark) Ref No: Recruit 2026/214
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification litigation experience.
Demonstrate required competency in: Acting Independently, Professionally, be
Accountable and act with Credibility. Knowledge of legislation and regulations
pertaining to the public service specifically: The Constitution; Criminal
Procedure Act; Public Service Act, relevant Regulations and other related
Legislation. General management skills. Strategic management and
stakeholder engagement expertise. People management and empowerment
skills. Good communication skills. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Problem solving and decision making. Project management. Excellent
administrative skills and report writing skills. Service delivery and innovation
skills. Negotiation skills. Policy analysis and development of policy. Research,
presentation, and facilitation skills. Must be able to travel in the DPP-division
and nationally. Positive security clearance. Valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Develop local crime prevention initiatives and strategies in line with the
Community Prosecution Initiative (CPI). Contribute to crime prevention and
community justice through this initiative. Analyse local crime trends and
dynamics of crime and insecurities of communities in respective DPP-divisions.
Organize, execute, and participate in community prosecution events and
meetings locally, provincially and nationally. Build strategic partnerships for
local crime prevention initiatives. Develop effective and efficient working
relationships with internal and external stakeholders including current NPA
Community Prosecution colleagues. Expand and increase the impact of the
current CPI footprint in the division and nationally as a whole. Provide and
promote education about the law to targeted groups within this initiative.
Promote effective collaboration, interaction and cultivate partnerships with- and
between stakeholders. Apply Batho Pele principles, Service Charter- and NPA
processes. Participate, contribute, and represent the NPA at interdepartmental,
local government, divisional and national structures. To monitor and evaluate
statistical data and performance of initiatives implemented in the division where
appointed. To develop and implement interventions in the divisions in line with
the analysis of the statistical data. To provide feedback and the submission of
reports (as determined by the National Coordinator at Head Office), regarding
the identification of initiatives, the implementation thereof, progress and
management of all related activities and initiatives in respective divisions, to
both the DPP and the Office of the National Head Office Coordinator.
77
Furthermore, it will be expected of the incumbent to also perform prosecutorial
related duties such as prosecutor-guided investigations, the management of
dockets, court and case management and the actual prosecution of related
cases when required.
ENQUIRIES : DPP: Mpumalanga Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
DPP: Makhanda (Gqeberha) Andiswa Tengile Tel No: (012) 845 1450
DPP: Pretoria (Vanderbijlpark) Godfrey Ramakuela Tel No: (012) 351 6808
APPLICATIONS : DPP: Mpumalanga e mail: Recruit2026212@npa.gov.za
DPP: Makhanda (Gqeberha) e mail: Recruit2026213@npa.gov.za
DPP: Pretoria (Vanderbijlpark) e mail: Recruit2026214@npa.gov.za
POST 25/83 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DDPP: Middelburg Ref No: Recruit 2026/215
DPP: Johannesburg Ref No: Recruit 2026/216
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Five (5) years’
experience in legal practice will be an added advantage. Strong interpersonal
and communication skills. Decision making ability. Computer literacy and
knowledge of programs in MS Office. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare cases for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments and
court documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence. Attend to
representations, prepare opinions and head of arguments and argue cases in
appropriate court. Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal
matters and in general conduct prosecution on behalf of the state. Perform all
duties related thereto in accordance with the code of conduct policy and
directives of the NPA. Ensure accurate statistics and good governance. Mentor
and coach junior staff and quality check their work. Participate in the
performance assessment of staff being mentored. Provide appropriate
guidance and direction and issue proper instructions to the
Advocates/Prosecutors/ SAPS/DPCI on all aspects of work. Promote partner
integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction
with partners in the criminal justice system. Provide appropriate guidance
ENQUIRIES : DDPP: Middelburg Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
DPP: Johannesburg R Swarts Tel No: (011) 220 4114
APPLICATIONS : DDPP: Middelburg e mail: Recruit2026215@npa.gov.za
DPP: Johannesburg e mail: Recruit2026216@npa.gov.za
POST 25/84 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/217 (X2 POSTS)
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Johannesburg (OCC)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Knowledge of and or
experience in the litigation of the Prevention of Organized Crime Act (POCA)
and related matters. Able to work extended hours. High level of proficiency in
prosecuting and presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding
criminal investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory offences.
Interpersonal skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Good
advocacy, well developed skills in legal research and legal drafting skills.
Knowledge of asset forfeiture law will be an added advantage. Strong computer
skills and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint.
Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work independently.
78
DUTIES : Study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Advise the police on the investigation of serious, complex
organised crime cases and other matters. Conduct legal research and keep up
to date with legal developments. Draft charge sheets and other court
documents and represent the State in all courts. Draft heads of arguments and
argue appeals. Present cases in court, lead witnesses, cross examine and
address the court on conviction and sentence. Appear in motion proceedings
and also do appeals and reviews. Generally, conduct prosecution on behalf of
the State.
ENQUIRIES : R Swarts Tel No: (011) 220 4114
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026217@npa.gov.za
POST 25/85 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/219
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office (OCC)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Five (5) years’ experience in legal practice will be
added advantage. Admission as an advocate or attorney will be an added
advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. High level of proficiency in prosecuting
and presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal
investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory offences.
Interpersonal skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Good
advocacy, well developed skills in legal research and legal drafting skills.
Knowledge of asset forfeiture law will be an added advantage. Willing to travel.
Able to work extended hours. Strong computer skills and knowledge of
programs in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint. Written and verbal
communication skills. Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Assist in the coordination of work related to money laundering. To provide high
level and well researched opinions and reports to the Heads of the Money
Laundering and Organised Crime Components. Advise the police on the
investigation of serious, complex money laundering cases. Advise prosecutors
on the prosecutions of money laundering cases. Advise on the FATF standards
and the requirements for effectiveness. Conduct legal research, draft reports
and keep-up to date with legal developments. Promote good stakeholder and
partner engagement. Consolidate and analyse statistics. Participate in
stakeholder meetings. Prepare presentations and reports. Provide money
laundering and related training.
ENQUIRIES : Mlungisi Baloyi Tel No: (012) 845 6927
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026219@npa.gov.za
POST 25/86 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/220
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Johannesburg (STU)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. At least 6 years of
relevant criminal court work experience in advocacy and drafting. Well-
developed skills in legal research. Good interpersonal, analytical,
organisational and communication skills. General computer literacy required.
Excellent administrative skills. Assist with the Performance management and
assessments of staff. Proficiency in prosecuting or litigation experience
regarding commercial crimes, Fraud, Theft and other common law/statutory
offences relating to tax evasion is essential. Knowledge of legislation relating
to Income Tax, VAT, PAYE as well as the Tax Administration Act and the
Customs and Excise Act required. Knowledge of Company Law. Competency
in guiding investigations in complex or more difficult matters, including
commercial matters, drafting charge sheets, indictments and court documents,
dealing with representations and conducting motion proceedings. The ability to
79
mentor, train and quality check the work of Advocates. Ability to act
independently without supervision and manage court and case flow
management independently. Required to travel to courts across the Division to
prosecute tax cases as and when required. Valid driver`s license is required.
DUTIES : To institute and conduct criminal proceedings on behalf of the State, to perform
any act incidental thereto and to carry out the duties and functions assigned to
the prosecution under any Act and/or the Policy Manual and/or any directives,
inter alia, to study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct
criminal proceedings of a complex nature. Prepare cases for court by inter alia
guiding the investigation, consulting with witnesses and acquiring additional
evidence. Draft charge sheets and indictments. Deal with any representations.
Present the State’s case in court. Present evidence, cross-examine and
address the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Study appeals and
reviews, prepare opinions and heads of argument for complex matters and
argue cases in the appropriate court with right of appearance. Appear in court
in motion applications pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct
prosecutions on behalf of the State. Perform all duties, including administrative
duties and specific tasks assigned by the supervisor, related thereto in
accordance with the Code of Conduct, policy, and directives of the National
Prosecuting Authority. Supervise and manage performance of State
Advocate(s) (if so required). Conduct performance assessments of staff (if so
required). Quality check work of Advocates. Mentor and guide Advocates,
prosecutors, and stakeholders. Assist in the keeping of proper
records/statistics in relation to all criminal prosecutions conducted by the STU
and assist in compilation of statistics/reports. Middle management, including
appeals, court rolls (under supervision) and office inspections. Managing of
allocated portfolio within STU. Assist Deputy Directors in high-profile matters
or matters where an increased risk element is present. Promote partner
integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction
with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Rosette Swarts Tel No: (011) 220 4114
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026220@npa.gov.za
POST 25/87 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/221
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office (STU)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Six (6) years relevant criminal court work experience
in advocacy and drafting. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Extensive
prosecutorial or litigation experience regarding tax and commercial crimes,
fraud, theft and other common law/ statutory offences relating to tax evasion is
essential. Knowledge of Income Tax Act No. 58 of 1962, VAT Act No. 89 of
1991, Tax Administration Act No. 28 of 2011, Customs and Excise Act No. 91
of 1964, Prevention of Organised Crime Act No. 121 of 1998. Extensive
knowledge of all laws and legislations applicable in prosecution of complex
matters and commercial crimes, e.g. (company law, insolvency law and control
exchange regulations). Proficiency in prosecuting or litigation, guiding
investigations in complex matters, including, drafting of charge sheets,
indictments and court documents. Dealing with representations and conducting
motion proceedings. Good advocacy, well-developed skills in legal research
and legal drafting skills. Advanced computer literacy. The ability to act
independently without supervision. Excellent administrative interpersonal
skills.
DUTIES : Deal with tax related representations submitted to the NDPP and/or DNDPP
and advise him/her by making recommendations on the outcome thereof.
Attend to other general prosecutions related representations submitted to the
NDPP or DNDPP where necessary. Perform other tax related duties, including
administrative duties and specific tasks assigned by the supervisor related
thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, policy and directives of the
National Prosecuting Authority. Mentor and guide Advocates and stakeholders
on tax related matters. Assist in the keeping of proper records in relation to the
STU matters and assist in compiling tax related reports where necessary.
80
Assist with all MOU related queries. Mentor, train and quality check the
memoranda submitted by the DPP Offices to the Head of NPS. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in relation to tax matters.
ENQUIRIES : Gija Maswanganyi Tel No: (012) 845 6944
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026221@npa.gov.za
POST 25/88 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/222
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. At least eight years post
qualification legal experience in civil and/or criminal litigation. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
advocacy and legal drafting skills. Good knowledge of civil and / or criminal
procedure. Admitted Advocate and / or Attorney will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of Asset Forfeiture law will be an added advantage. Strong
Computer skills and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, Outlook,
PowerPoint. Willing to travel and work extended hours. Ability to do legal
research. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Civil litigation on behalf of the State regarding all aspects of the freezing of
property and obtaining final forfeiture/ confiscation orders. Liaise with
Prosecutors on cases with asset forfeiture potential. Draft and present asset
forfeiture applications in all courts. Train Prosecutors and Investigators in the
use of Asset Forfeiture Law. Keep up to date with legal developments.
ENQUIRIES : Katlego Phiri Tel No: (012) 845 6713
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026222@npa.gov.za
POST 25/89 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/223
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 242 91 – R934 208 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Proficiency in
prosecuting or litigation experience with regard to common law offences such
as fraud, theft, forgery and uttering, commercial crimes and related matters.
Proficiency in guiding investigations in complex or more difficult matters,
including commercial matters, drafting charge sheets, including indictments
and court documents, dealing with representations. Knowledge of asset
forfeiture law will be an added advantage. Well-developed skills in legal
research and legal drafting. Strong interpersonal and communication skills.
General computer proficiency and knowledge of programs in MS Office. Good
interpersonal, analytical, organization and communication skills. A valid driver's
license.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Deal with any representations. Conduct prosecution of serious,
complex and organized commercial crime and corruption matters. Prepare
cases for court including the acquisition of additional evidence and drafting
charge sheets, indictments and other court documents. Present the state’s
case in court, including examination and cross-examination of witnesses and
addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Manage court and case flow
management independently. Study and deal with appeals and reviews. Advise
the police on the investigation of serious, complex and organized commercial
crime cases and corruption matters. Be able to guide and supervise junior
advocates. Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer
satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026223@npa.gov.za
81
POST 25/90 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE (ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS) REF NO:
RECRUIT 2026/224
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Five (5) years’
experience in legal practice will be an added advantage. Knowledge of civil
and/or criminal procedure. Experience or knowledge in environmental cases
and case laws. Ability to act independently. Strong interpersonal and
communication skills. Decision making ability. Computer literacy and
knowledge of programs in MS Office. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare cases for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments and
court documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence. Attend to
representations, prepare opinions and head of arguments and argue cases in
appropriate court. Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal
matters and in general conduct prosecution on behalf of the state. Perform all
duties related thereto in accordance with the code of conduct policy and
directives of the NPA. Mentor and coach junior staff and quality check their
work. Participate in the performance assessment of staff being mentored.
ENQUIRIES : Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 6001
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026224@npa.gov.za
POST 25/91 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/225
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (LP-9), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good advocacy and
legal drafting skills. Good knowledge of civil and / or criminal procedure. Willing
to travel and work extended hours. Competency in guiding investigations,
drafting charge sheets, indictments and court documents and dealing with
representations. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Decision
making ability. Computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS Office. A
valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Advise the police on the investigation matters. Represent the State in all courts.
Prepare cases for court, including the acquisition of additional evidence and
draft charge sheets, indictments and court documents. Present the State’s
case in court, lead and cross examine witnesses, address the court on, inter
alia, conviction and sentence. Attend to representations, prepare opinions and
head of arguments and argue cases in appropriate court. Appear in court in
motion application pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct
prosecution on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in
accordance with the code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Mentor
and coach junior staff and quality check their work. Participate in the
performance assessment of staff being mentored.
ENQUIRIES : Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 6001
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026225@npa.gov.za
POST 25/92 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: COURT PREPARATION REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/226
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (MMS Level 12), (Total cost package)
82
CENTRE : DPP: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B -degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Social Work or equivalent. At least three (3) years managerial working
experience. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good administration skills.
People management and empowerment. Strategic capability and leadership.
Planning and prioritising skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Problem
solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Oversee the court preparation programme provided by Court Preparation
Officers within the NPA for the Division. To mentor, coach, ensure effective
transfer of skills to the Court Preparation officials. Give guidance to the DPP/
Governance Coordinators/ Chief Prosecutors/SPP and court preparation
officers regarding the model and methodology of court preparation work.
Ensure compliance with standards and guidelines for the establishment, roll
out and management of court preparation services in the region for the
prevention of secondary trauma and enhanced prosecution. Conduct court
preparation and victim impact statements in high profile matters and implement
the PEACE model and victim impact statements for Court preparation in courts.
Act as an expert witness when called upon to do so. Lead staff towards
achieving strategic goals of the NPA. Deal with representations and complaints
and escalate. Contribute towards the management and implementation of the
victim’s charter. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners within the criminal justice
system. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders and attend meetings,
including national office. Manage staff and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026226@npa.gov.za
POST 25/93 : REGIONAL COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 074 222 - R1 742 772 per annum (Level SU-3), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Johannesburg Ref No: Recruit 2026/227
CPP: Witbank (Secunda) Ref No: Recruit 2026/228
CPP: Modimolle Ref No: Recruit 2026/229
CPP: Gqeberha Ref No: Recruit 2026/260 (Re-advert)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least six (6) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Must have the
ability to act independently or within minimum supervision. Proficiency in
prosecuting or litigation, guiding investigation and giving instructions in
complex or more difficult common law and statutory offences in Regional and
District Court. Draft complex charge sheets and complex court documents.
Good management skills. Must manage, give guidance and train prosecutors.
DUTIES : Manage, supervise and conduct prosecutions in the Regional and District
Courts in accordance with applicable legislation, NPA policy directives and
related instructions. Screen dockets, make prosecutorial decisions, guide
investigations, ensure trial readiness and prepare matters for court. Conduct
and manage criminal proceedings, including bail applications, trials, sentence
proceedings and other complex matters. Consult with victims, witnesses,
investigating officers, legal representatives and other stakeholders while
applying a victim-centred approach. Draft and check charge sheets, plea and
sentence agreements, legal opinions, reports, representations and other court
documents. Promote court productivity through case flow management,
stakeholder engagement and appropriate use of statutory mechanisms to
shorten proceedings. Monitor backlog, remand detainee, priority, AFU, money
laundering and other prescribed matters. Manage and verify performance
information, court returns, registers, reports and ECMS/ICMS data to ensure
accuracy and compliance. Identify operational challenges, implement
corrective measures and report on progress. Manage, train, coach, mentor and
guide prosecutors, monitor the quality of their work, assist with performance
management and deal with disciplinary matters where required.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Johannesburg SH Mabasa Tel No: (011) 220 4126
CPP: Witbank (Secunda) Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
CPP: Modimolle Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
CPP: Gqeberha Andiswa Tengile Tel No: (012) 842 1450
83
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Johannesburg e mail: Recruit2026227@npa.gov.za
CPP: Witbank (Secunda) e mail: Recruit2026228@npa.gov.za
CPP: Modimolle e mail: Recruit2026229@npa.gov.za
CPP: Gqeberha e mail: Recruit2026260@npa.gov.za
POST 25/94 : STATE ADVOCATE
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R970 221 - R1 600 893 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Kimberley (OCC) Ref No: Recruit 2026/230
DPP: Mpumalanga (OCC) Ref No: Recruit 2026/21
DPP: Limpopo (OCC) Ref No: Recruit 2026/261
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least five (5) years post qualification legal experience in legal
practice and/or regional court prosecution. Litigation experience with regard to
common law offences such as serious violent crimes, syndicate drug dealing,
organised robberies with aggravated circumstances, fraud, theft, commercial
crimes and corruption. Knowledge of and or experience in the litigation of the
Prevention of Organized Crime Act (POCA) and related matters. Proficiency in
Prosecuting or litigation experience in racketeering and gang related matters
will be an added advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998.
Proficiency in guiding investigations in complex or more difficult matters. Strong
computer skills and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and
PowerPoint. Written and verbal communication skills. A valid drivers’ licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Deal with any representations. Guide investigations in organised
crime complex or more difficult matters, including commercial matters. Prepare
cases for court, including acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge
sheets, indictments, heads of argument, opinions and all other court
documents. Represent the state in all courts, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Manage
court and case flow management of cases independently. Study and deal with
appeals and reviews. Manage any portfolio assigned by the Deputy Director
managing the OCC. Mentor and guide DPCI and SAPS investigating officers,
prosecutors and stakeholders. Assist in high profile matters and matters where
an increased risk element is present. Promote partner integration, community
involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the
criminal justice system. Mentor and coach junior staff and quality check their
work. Participate in the performance assessment of staff being mentored.
ENQUIRIES : DPP: Kimberley Nicholas Mogongwa Tel No: (053) 807 4539
DPP: Mpumalanga Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
DPP: Limpopo Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : DPP: Kimberley e mail: Recruit2026230@npa.gov.za
DPP: Mpumalanga e mail: Recruit2026218@npa.gov.za
DPP: Limpopo e mail: Recruit2026261@npa.gov.za
POST 25/95 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/231
Asset Forfeiture Unit
Re-advert
SALARY : R970 221 - R1 600 893 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (Total cost package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least five years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Admitted as an Attorney in terms of
the Attorney Act 53 of 1979. Excellent interpersonal, analytical, presentation
and communication skills. Strong computer skills (Ms Word, Excel, Outlook and
PowerPoint). Professionalism and able to act independently. Willingness to
travel and work extended hours. Excellent communication and administrative
skills, as well as literacy and numeracy skills in so far as being able to
understand profit and loss calculations and basic business finance. Ability to
conduct legal research. Valid driver’s license.
84
DUTIES : Act as Attorney for the Asset Forfeiture Unit. Execute tasks that by law must be
performed by Attorneys. Attend to diverse types of civil litigation in the High
Court, Magistrate Courts as well as appeals from these courts, including
appeals to the Supreme Court of Appeal. Deal with constitutional issues,
including litigation in the Constitutional Court. Draft and / or settle all types of
agreements render legal opinions, draft and move applications. Attend to
queries from curators on litigation of Asset Forfeiture matters. Collect all taxed
bills of all costs in favour of the state.
ENQUIRIES : Jennifer Jeftha Tel No: (012) 845 6419
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026231@npa.gov.za
POST 25/96 : REGIONAL COURT PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R655 854 - R1 508 337 per annum (Level LP-5 to LP-6), (Total cost package),
(excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Johannesburg Ref No: Recruit 2026/232 (X6 Posts)
CPP: Bloemfontein (Botshabelo) Ref No: Recruit 2026/233
CPP: Kimberley (Galeshewe) Ref No: Recruit 2026/234
CPP: Odi (Mogwase) Ref No: Recruit 2026/235 (X2 Posts) (Re-advert)
CPP: Kimberley Ref No: Recruit 2026/254 (Re-advert)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Experience in guiding
investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory offences in regional
court. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills. Good presentation
skills. Good project management skills. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court on
inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Johannesburg SH Mabasa Tel No: (011) 220 4126
CPP: Bloemfontein (Botshabelo) Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 600
CPP: Kimberley (Galeshewe) Nicholas Mogongwa Tel No: (053) 807 4539
CPP: Odi (Mogwase) Flora Kalakgosi Tel No: (018) 381 9041
CPP: Kimberley Phumelele Sali Tel No: (053) 807 4521
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Johannesburg e-mail: Recruit2026232@npa.gov.za
CPP: Bloemfontein (Botshabelo) e-mail: Recruit2026233@npa.gov.za
CPP: Kimberley (Galeshewe) e-mail: Recruit2026234@npa.gov.za
CPP: Odi (Mogwase) e-mail: Recruit2026235@npa.gov.za
CPP: Kimberley e-mail: Recruit2026254@npa.gov.za
POST 25/97 : HEAD CONTROL PROSECUTOR 2
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R655 854 - R1 508 337 per annum (Level SU-1 to SU-2), (Total cost package),
(excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Welkom (Virginia) Ref No: Recruit 2026/236 (Re-advert)
CPP: Thohoyandou (Vuwani) Ref No: Recruit 2026/257 (Re-advert)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding
investigation and giving instructions in reasonably complex or more difficult
common law and statutory offences in the lower courts. Proficiently drafting
complex charge sheets and other complex court documents. Must be able to
act independently without constant supervision and manage court and case
flow independently. Good management and administrative skills. General
computer literacy with excellent knowledge of Ms Word, PowerPoint, Excel ad
Outlook. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to
85
identify and handle confidential matters. Knowledge of relevant legislations,
policies, prescripts and procedures applicable in the public sector.
DUTIES : Manage, train, and give guidance to prosecutors. Study case dockets, decide
on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Maintenance matters
and inquest of a general and more advanced nature in the Regional Court and
District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft charge sheets and other
proceedings for court, present and assist prosecutors to present the State’s
case in court, to lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on inter-
alia, conviction, and sentence, and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the State. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives of the National Prosecuting Authority.
Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor with the performance assessment of staff.
Manage, control and attend to the administration of the office of the District
Court. Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer
satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Welkom (Virginia) Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 6001
CPP: Thohoyandou (Vuwani) Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Welkom (Virginia) e mail: Recruit2026236@npa.gov.za
CPP: Thohoyandou (Vuwani) e mail: Recruit2026257@npa.gov.za
POST 25/98 : DISTRICT COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R655 854 - R1 508 337 per annum (Level SU-1 to SU-2), (Total cost package),
(excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Modimolle (Northam) Ref No: Recruit 2026/237
CPP: Mthatha (Lusikisiki) Ref No: Recruit 2026/238 (Re- advert)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting or
litigation in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences in regional court. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills.
Good presentation skills. Good project management skills. Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court on
inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Modimolle (Northam) Thuba Thubakgale Tel No: (015) 045 0285
CPP: Mthatha (Lusikisiki) Ziyanda Mthwazi Tel No: (047) 501 2632
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Modimolle (Northam) email: Recruit2026237@npa.gov.za
CPP: Mthatha (Lusikisiki) email: Recruit2026238@npa.gov.za
POST 25/99 : RESEARCHER REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/239
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Research Management
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-degree (NQF Level 7) in Research or related field of
qualification. Minimum three (3) years relevant experience in research field or
relevant. Knowledge and skills in the Criminal Justice system and policy
framework. Knowledge of research methodologies. Information and data
gathering tools and system skills. Analysis tools and methods skills. Qualitative,
quantitative and analytical skills. Task/time management skills. Innovative
skills. People management and empowerment skills. Administration skills.
Communications skills. Planning and Prioritising skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness skills. Problem solving and decision-making skills. Computer
skills in MS Office suite, specifically MS Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint,
Vivo, Adobe, Zoom and MS Teams. Basic Knowledge of legislation and
86
regulations pertaining to public service administration specifically: The Public
Service Act and Regulations and The NPA Act. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Identify key policy and research issues for the NPA on continuous scanning of
the internal and external environment. Developing system and processes.
Conduct research and evaluations. Process internal and external research
requests in the NPA. Creating mechanisms to ensure proactive, need-based
policy and research service delivery. Monitoring and evaluating the impact of
policy interventions. Liaison with all clients in the NPA and Corporate service.
Assisting with other tasks of the unit as and when required by the management
of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Marthi Alberts Tel No: (012) 845 6275
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026239@npa.gov.za
POST 25/100 : CRIMINAL INVESTIGATOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/256 (X5 POSTS)
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
Re-advert
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-degree or three (3) year Diploma in policing and/or criminal
investigation or related. Minimum 5 (five) years criminal investigation
experience with three (3) years operational experience in a legal/ investigative
environment in roles related to corruption investigations, commercial related
crimes and/or financial crimes. Vocational training in criminal investigations
such as the detective Learning Programme and/or other specialised
investigation courses. Strategic capability and leadership. General
management skills. People management and empowerment. Administration
skills. Communication. Planning and Prioritising. Customer Focus and
Responsiveness. Problem Solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Conduct strategic planning and implementation for investigations purposes.
Attend to stakeholder engagements in relation to investigations. Conduct
criminal investigations as authorised by the Investigating Director. Execute
special operations in line with the provisions of relevant legislation. Participate
in national criminal investigative projects and administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Matodzi Makhari Tel No: (012) 845 6012
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026256@npa.gov.za
POST 25/101 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: REGIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Communications
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Gauteng South Ref No: Recruit 2026/240
North West Ref No: Recruit 2026/241
Free State Ref No: Recruit 2026/242
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-degree (NQF Level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in the field of Communication/ Journalism or equivalent. Minimum five (5)
years’ experience in the communication field. Knowledge of legislation and
regulations pertaining to public service administration, specifically: The NPA
Act, Criminal Procedure Act, Information Management, Legal Administration,
Legal Jargon, Prescripts and internal control and risk management.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Teamwork, Time management and change
management. Good knowledge of government programme, project
management and coordination skills, client orientation and customer focus,
communication skills and computer literacy. Strategic capability and
leadership, administration skills, communication, planning and prioritising,
customer focused and responsiveness, problem solving and decision making.
Negotiation skills/persuasion and influencing. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Spokesperson for the Division and Director of Public Prosecutions (DDP),
communicating on high-profile matters. Provide communication advisory to the
DPP, management and prosecutors in the Division. Providing sound media
relation and communicating NPA decisions and achievements. Manage
relationships with key media players to secure and grow media coverage of
Divisional performance. Answering enquiries from the press/media
representatives and other stakeholders. Writing, editing and distributing press
releases and news reports about the work of the organization in the Division.
Ensure coverage in mainstream, community media in the region and develop
87
appropriate messages for dissemination on mainstream, local and community
media. Organise and manage key events, including large scale exhibitions
(Randshow/ Tshwane and the Royal show) and initiatives that take advantage
of opportunities for members of the prosecution service engage with vulnerable
groups/ victims of crime, to provide access to the organisation and to raise
awareness about NPA work. Manage/lead public education campaigns for the
Division (including media). Project manage community outreach events for the
Division. Develop and maintain stakeholder engagement internationally,
nationally, locally and cluster level with both internal partners within the JCPS
as well as external partners within the public and private sector. Manage the
content and production of the DPP’s/Divisional newsletter and ensure
appropriate corporate identity. Act as a liaison between Head Office and the
Division on key internal projects including events and webinars.
ENQUIRIES : Isaac Dhludhlu Tel No: (012) 845 6711
APPLICATIONS : Gauteng South e mail: Recruit2026240@npa.gov.za
North West e mail: Recruit2026241@npa.gov.za
Free State e mail: Recruit2026242@npa.gov.za
POST 25/102 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
RECRUIT 2026/243
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Research Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-degree (NQF Level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in the field of Information Science, Information Management, Knowledge
Management or equivalent. Minimum Two (2) years’ experience in the
Information/and or knowledge management environment. Knowledge of
legislation and regulations pertaining to public service administration,
specifically: DPSA, Knowledge Management Framework, PAIA, POPI and
NARSSA regulations. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound knowledge of
SharePoint application. Sound knowledge of Viva Engage Platform. Teamwork,
Time management and change management. Good knowledge of government
programme, project management and coordination skills, client orientation and
customer focus, communication skills and computer literacy. Strategic
capability and leadership, administration skills, communication, planning and
prioritising, customer focused and responsiveness, problem solving and
decision making. Willingness to travel and work away from home.
DUTIES : Establish and implement knowledge creation and harvesting processes.
Identify key business processes for knowledge harvesting. Develop knowledge
harvesting instruments/templates. Establish knowledge sharing and
dissemination platforms. Implement and maintain knowledge management
database/system. Develop and implement knowledge Management
Awareness Plan. Maintain stakeholder Engagement. Supervise performance
of staff. Provide knowledge management inputs on the Directorates’ Annual
Operational Plan.
ENQUIRIES : Marthi Alberts Tel No: (012) 845 6275
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026243@npa.gov.za
POST 25/103 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET, FLEET AND FACILITY REF NO: RECRUIT
2026/244
Office for Witness Protection
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga (Witbank)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Public Administration or equivalent. Three (3) years’ experience in the
field. In depth knowledge of the Public Service Act, Regulations, and its
application. Experience in Asset, Fleet and Facilities management, internal
control, and risk management. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Experience in
leasing of properties and lease contract management. Knowledge of Witness
Protection Act. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management Framework, Public
Finance Management Act and National Treasury Practice Notes. Knowledge
of legislation and regulations pertaining to public service administration
specifically the Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act, EEA, Skills
88
Development Act. Knowledge of the Constitution, Batho Pele and MISS
document. Knowledge of Performance Management. Execution, interpretation
and recommendations on policies and procedures. Strategic capability and
leadership, general management skills, people management and
empowerment, administrative skills, communication skills, ability to plan and
prioritize work, customer focus and responsiveness, problem solving and
decision making. Computer skills - MS Office suite including Word, Excel,
Outlook.
DUTIES : Manage office and operational assets, fleet, and facilities. Manage
procurement services. Office Administration and Document Management.
Compiling of the Asset Management and Procurement plans. Assist in
monitoring expenditure and ensure correct inputs in respect of regional budget.
Perform physical bank withdrawals and deposits when needed. Perform
electronic banking transactions. Assist to manage cash book and petty cash.
Conduct Performance management with individual staff reporting to the
position, Work under pressure and ensure adherence to timelines.
ENQUIRIES : S Davids Tel No: (012) 845 6616
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026244@npa.gov.za
POST 25/104 : SENIOR LABOUR RELATIONS PRACTITIONER REF NO: RECRUIT
2026/245
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: HRM & D: Labour Relations
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Labour Relations. At least two (2) years’ experience in a labour relations
environment. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound knowledge of the
Labour Relations regulatory environment, including but not limited to Labour
Relations Act, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, and applicable
Collective Agreements. Good communication skills, both verbal and written.
Strong interpersonal skills and ability to work under pressure. Computer
Literacy. Driver’s License is a requirement. Job knowledge. Initiative.
Reliability. Communication. Interpersonal Skills.
DUTIES : Attend to labour relations matters with a view to resolve them. Prepare
submissions for approval. Liaise with the NPA business units and external
stakeholders. Capture data on the case management system and on PERSAL
and maintain ER database. Extract and analyse PERSAL reports related to
labour relations and report thereon. Compile labour relations reports and
memoranda. Provide general labour relations advice. Research relevant
legislation and policy and procedures and case law to inform management of
cases. Analyse data and trends and participate in the development of mitigation
plans. Assist with facilitation and investigation of grievance, complaints and
misconduct cases. Represents the NPA in disciplinary matters. Facilitate labour
relations training. Represents the NPA in external dispute. Assist with general
administrative functions and travel arrangements.
ENQUIRIES : Ronnie Pather Tel No: (012) 845 6186
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026245@npa.gov.za
POST 25/105 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/246 (X2
POSTS)
Strategy, Operations and Compliance – Finance Management: Payments
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) / Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level 6)
in Financial Management or equivalent. Minimum of two (2) years’ working
experience. Requisite experience in processing payments in BAS, LOGIS and
PERSAL. In depth knowledge in processing suppliers, Travel Agency
payments and employee allowances (e.g. Travel and subsistence and cell
phone claims). Knowledge of supplier reconciliation. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. In depth knowledge of PFMA, Treasury Regulations and relevant
prescripts. Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining to public service
administration. Knowledge of LOGIS, PERSAL and BAS systems. Ability to
work independently and under pressure. Willingness to travel to other regional
89
offices. Problem solving skills. General computer literacy and knowledge of
programs in MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint. Good communication skills, verbal
and written. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations and Performance
Management and Monitoring.
DUTIES : Authorize supplier payments and claims such as Travel and Subsistence and
cell phones. Track processed payments on the tracking system. Perform
supplier reconciliation. Maintain proper filing system of payments. Manage
donor funding. Provide support to auditors and business units. Maintain
clearing of suspense accounts. Providing reports to management. Excellent
presentation skills. Manage scanned batches. Attend to all related queries in
the unit. Supervise and train subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Refilwe Matsetela Tel No: (012) 845 7283
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026246@npa.gov.za
POST 25/106 : LIBRARIAN REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/247
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DDPP: Middelburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6). At least
two (2) years relevant experience preferable in a law library environment.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Ability to work on an electronic library
management system including e-Books. Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel,
and PowerPoint. At least two years’ experience in utilization of search of search
including Jutastat, Lexis Nexis, Sabinet and WorldShare and Westlaw.
Willingness to travel. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Catalog and classify library material utilising available databases. Maintain
asset register of library material including disposals. Renew standing orders.
Conduct inter and intra-Library loans. Conduct periodic stock take and keep
statistics. Procure and process new material for both head office and regions.
Loose leaf administration. Liaise with external clients. Assist with information
projects of the NPA. Process all requests in terms of law reports, statutes and
reference material. Assist with training of clients in use of online databases.
Submit monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026247@npa.gov.za
POST 25/107 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/248
Office for Witness Protection
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga (Witbank)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6).
Minimum two years relevant experience in performing general administrative
functions. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. General computer literacy skills and
knowledge in programs such as MS Word, Excel and Outlook. Knowledge of
the PFMA Act, Treasury regulations, National Treasury’s Central Supplier
Database (CSD) and other government related legislations. Able to handle and
record cash transactions and know how to account for public funds according
to the PFMA. Knowledge of Accounting and Asset Management. Good
Communication, liaison and presentation skills.S Ability to act with tact and
discreet. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Good administration
skills. Planning and prioritizing skills. Willing to undergo security clearance. A
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide asset, fleet and facilities management services. Provide financial
operational support services. Provide office administration services and
document management. Provide human resources management services.
ENQUIRIES : S Davids Tel No: (012) 845 6616
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026248@npa.gov.za
POST 25/108 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: SUPERVISOR: ENFORCEMENT REF NO:
RECRUIT 2026/249
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
90
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Public Administration, Finance or relevant qualification. Minimum two (2) years
relevant experience working in administrative support environment. Knowledge
of legislation and regulations pertaining to the Public Service Act and
Regulations, PFMA, POCA, the SA Archives Act, Administration of Estates,
Insolvency Act, the NPA Act, Access to information Act and SCM Framework.
Knowledge of AFU and NPA policies and procedures relevant to the job
functions. Knowledge of Electronic Case Management System (ECMS) and
SharePoint will be an added advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Administration,
communication skills. Interpersonal relations skills. Reporting skills. General
computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs MS Word; Excel;
PowerPoint and Outlook. writing and task/time management skills.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support to the component including regions.
Provide administrative support to the two Deputy Directors’ in enforcement.
Process invoices for payments. Attend queries from service providers and
business units relating to payments. Reconcile monthly commitments.
Facilitate payments to curators and auctioneers. Ensure that payment advises
are obtained from finance. Ensure that all payments are in compliance with
regulations. Attend meetings regarding responsibilities. Maintain ECMS.
Receive and file proofs of CARA deposits from regions. Receive or request
CARA bank statements from Sout African Reserve Bank. Process subsistence
and travel claim for the HOE and DDs. Process cellphone and data
reimbursement claims for the HOE and DDs. Maintain a good filing and record
keeping. Keep a well-organised administrative system for the office. Manage
communication with the internal and external stakeholders. Compile and
submit consolidated monthly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Phumelele Simelane Tel No: (012) 845 7772
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026249@npa.gov.za
POST 25/109 : KNOWLEDGE INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/250
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Strategy Management Office
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Information Management or Information Sciences, Knowledge management or
equivalent. Minimum three (3) years relevant experience in Information and
Knowledge Management. Working knowledge of the public sector in general.
Excellent report writing skills and attention to detail. Sound knowledge
management skills. Sound electronical document management and or records
management skills. Sound understanding of the DPSA knowledge
Management framework, PAA, POPI, and NARSSA regulations. Sound
working knowledge of SharePoint application. Sound knowledge of Viva
Engage platform. Good communication, liaison and presentation skills. A good
command of computer literacy, including Ms Office suite (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook and Teams) Ability to work under pressure and multi-task.
Able to work independently and in a team. Willingness to travel and work away
from home. Working knowledge of conducting research/ and or data collection.
Project Management skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Outline specific knowledge and expertise for harvest. Identify knowledge
locations. Identify knowledge experts within the organisation. Schedule
knowledge creation and harvest sessions. Conduct knowledge harvest
sessions. Document capturing knowledge Publish secondary knowledge
productions in different formats. Maintain experts database. Maintain
knowledge management portals. Conduct Knowledge management (KM)
awareness and KM portal training. Perform any other duties deemed fit by
management.
ENQUIRIES : Bongumusa Jalubane Tel No: (012) 845 6491
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026250@npa.gov.za
POST 25/110 : COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/259
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Communications
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Northern Cape
91
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Communications, Public Relations, Journalism or a related field of qualification,
as recognised by SAQA. Minimum two (2) years’ relevant experience. Two (2)
years’ experience using relevant editing software, including Adobe Creative
Suite. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Able to work under pressure and meet tight
deadlines daily. Reliable, interpersonal skills, teamwork. Time management
and change management. Good knowledge of government programmes,
project management and coordination skills, client orientated and customer
focus. Communication skills and computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide communications support to the Region. Assist with media queries in
the region. Draft and write media statements for approval. Process media
inquiries and assist with feedback. Provided social media inputs and content.
Event Management, Public Education, and Awareness. Provide
communication support to regional business units and corporate managers.
Make meaningful inputs to Khasho by contributing articles on a regular and
sustained basis. Publish organisational performance information on all internal
communication platforms to keep employees updated. Providing support to
internal stakeholders, such as the Strategy office, EWP, IMU, HR and
leadership, with both internal and external local events and campaigns.
Present content effectively and collaborate with stakeholders, demonstrating
strong communication and listening skills.
ENQUIRIES : Isaac Dhludhlu Tel No: (012) 845 6711
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026259@npa.gov.za
POST 25/111 : FINANCE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/251
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DPP: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Basic
numeracy skills. Knowledge of Financial Accounting dealing with processing
creditors payments and employee’s allowances such as cell phone and S&T.
Ability to work independently without constant supervision. Knowledge of
Public Finance, PERSAL; BAS and LOGIS. Good communication skills, verbal
and written. Planning and organizing skills. Good analytical skills. General
computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Process payments of service providers for the unit. Provide support to Financial
Accounting. Manage payment register. Receive all claims and invoices, check
correctness and submit to Director: Administration for approval. Capture S & T
claims and cell phone claims on PERSAL and BAS system. Administer the
petty cash for the office. Submit certified payroll to Head Office on a monthly
basis. Track creditors payments on tracking system. Distribute all finance
related policies and circulars to officials. Adhere to policies and procedures.
Liaise with customers and suppliers. Verify availability of funds and recommend
approval of expenditure. Help with compilation of regional budget. Print and
distribute expenditure reports to different managers.
ENQUIRIES : Tebogo Mashile Tel No: (013) 045 0686
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026251@npa.gov.za
POST 25/112 : FINANCE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/252
National Prosecutions Services
Re-advert.
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DPP: Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Basic
numeracy skills. Knowledge of Financial Accounting dealing with processing
creditors payments and employee’s allowances such as cell phone and S&T.
Ability to work independently without constant supervision. Knowledge of
Public Finance, PERSAL; BAS and LOGIS. Good communication skills, verbal
and written. Planning and organizing skills. Good analytical skills. General
computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Process payments of service providers for the unit. Provide support to Financial
Accounting. Manage payment register. Receive all claims and invoices, check
92
correctness and submit to Director: Administration for approval. Capture S & T
claims and cell phone claims on PERSAL and BAS system. Administer the
petty cash for the office. Submit certified payroll to Head Office on a monthly
basis. Track creditors payments on tracking system. Distribute all finance
related policies and circulars to officials. Adhere to policies and procedures.
Liaise with customers and suppliers. Verify availability of funds and recommend
approval of expenditure. Help with compilation of regional budget. Print and
distribute expenditure reports to different managers.
ENQUIRIES : Flora Kalakgosi Tel No: (018) 381 9041
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026252@npa.gov.za
POST 25/113 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/253
National Prosecutions Services
Re-advert
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Welkom (Bethlehem)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound
planning and organizing skills, written and verbal communication. Good people
skills. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to act
independently. General computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS
Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Register incoming dockets and scanning thereof. Capturing information on the
electronic case register (ECR). Daily updating of information from court.
Provide dockets electronically to Defence on request of Prosecutors. Liaise
with Prosecutors in respect of matters dealt with. Verify what is happening in
court. Write up information to be captured on access. Contact Prosecutor for
information to reconcile to access. Generate reports from ECR for statistics
purposes. Generate various Statistics sheet. Draw up reports from Access,
Power BI and PowerPoint tools. Draw up excel spreadsheets for case
summaries. Draw reports from ECR for submission to supervisor, DPP and
National Office for monthly reporting. Update electronic case flow from
Prosecutors and SAPS from the ECR. Provide case administration and
documents management. Prepare and maintain files. Release appropriate
documents to any other interested party. Maintain E disclosure platform.
Handle Prosecutor caseloads. Assist with other administrative functions and
duties as required by the line manager.
ENQUIRIES : Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 6001
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026253@npa.gov.za
93
ANNEXURE K
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Gauteng/Pretoria: Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand
delivered to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
Northern Cape: Kimberly: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X5043, Kimberley, 8300 or hand deliver applications to the Northern cape
division of the High Court, Corner Sol Plaatjie Drive, Kimberly.
Western Cape /Cape Town: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct
your application to: The provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal
Address: Private Bag X9020, Cape Town, 8000, or hand deliver applications to
the Office of the Chief Justice, Provincial Service centre 30 Queen Victoria
Street, Cape Town.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. Applicants could be required to
provide consent for access to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment
for SMS, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme:
Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA
which is an online course, endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry
into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, social media, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
94
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/114 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ETHICS AND INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT REF
NO: 2026/77/OCJ
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Public
Administration or equivalent qualification at NQF level six (6) as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in Integrity and Ethics
Management of which one (1) year should be at supervisory level. knowledge
of the e-Disclosure system. A certified Ethics Officer and a valid drivers license
will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a
pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and Skills: RSA Constitution, Public service Act 1994, Public
Service Regulation 2016, knowledge of PFMA, knowledge of Integrity and
Ethics Management Processes, Knowledge of Fraud and Ethics Strategy,
understanding of Ethics Risk Assessment, as well as relevant directives,
teamwork, technical skills, reporting skills, presentation skills, planning and
execution.
DUTIES : Monitor, and report on the implementation of the e-Disclosure prescripts (both
SMS Members and Other categories), review the draft Fraud Prevention and
Anti-Corruption Policy and Ethics Management Policies, ensure, monitor, and
report on conflict of interest including acceptance of gifts, remuneration work
outside the Public Service (Rwops) and doing business with an organ of the
State, conduct ethics awareness, provide inputs on the ethics risk assessment,
provide support to the Ethics Governance Structure meetings, monitor the
implementation of the Lifestyle Audit, supervise and develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. Maria Mahlangu Tel No: (010) 493 2688
HR Related Enquiries: Mr K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2527
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: 2026/77/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 25/115 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: DCRS REF NO: 2026/78/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of The High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade twelve (12) Certificate No
experience required. A minimum of one (1) year experience in Court
recordings, exposure to Court related functions and a valid drivers license will
serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-
entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements.
Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office), good communication
skills (verbal and written), good interpersonal skills and good problem solving
skills, accuracy and attention to detail, ability to work under pressure and good
customer service.
95
DUTIES : Test and operate recording equipment’s before Court proceedings, perform
digital recording of Court proceedings and ensure the integrity of such
recordings, provide administrative support at circuit Courts, collection of
statistics, provide administrative support in general for Court performance and
case flow management, provide any other administrative support in relation to
case flow, HR, Finance and Supply Chain as required by the Judiciary, Court
Manager, Chief Registrar and Supervisor, manage documents and operate
DCRS/CRT machines.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. N Hanekom Tel No: (021) 480 2635
HR Related Enquiries: SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/78/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 25/116 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2026/79/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Constitutional Court: Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification at NQF level four (4) as recognised by SAQA. No experience
required. An LLB/ B Com Law/ BA Law/ Paralegal qualification, experience in
general legal administration, one (1) year administration experience preferably
in a Court environment and valid driver’s license will serve as an added
advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge
and Skills: Knowledge of document management and filing, Batho Pele
Principles, good communication (written and verbal), computer literacy (MS
Office), good interpersonal skills, good public relations skills, ability to work
under pressure, customer service, time management skills.
DUTIES : Issuing and filing of all Court processes, assist with the management, archiving
and safeguarding of Court Records, attend to audio recording and transcription
of Court proceedings, compilation of statistics, attend and oversee
enquiries/correspondence from Court users, render Court online related and
case flow management duties, comply with the telephone prescripts, HRM and
organisational policies, perform any other clerical and administrative duties
required for the effective and efficient functioning of the Court as required by
the Judiciary, Director and Chief Registrar.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. SR Tjamela Tel No: (011) 359 7460
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. K Mokgatlhe Tel No: (011) 359 7400
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/79/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 25/117 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2026/80/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate. No previous
experience required. A valid drivers’ license will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment, knowledge of registry processes and practice,
knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment, knowledge and understanding of legislative frameworks
governing the Public Service, knowledge of filing system mail procedure
manual, promotion of access to information act and national archives. Batho
Pele principles, effective communications skills (written and verbal), good
interpersonal skills, computer literacy skills, problem solving skills, analytical
skills, numeric skills, time management skills, administrative skills, flexible, able
to work under pressure, self-motivated, ability to work independently, attention
to detail and ability to work as a team.
DUTIES : Register/allocate case numbers to all pleadings and Court documents
received, ensure that the files have been served on all parties concerned, draw
up files for the litigants/Attorney, update the file of return service/s proof of
services, safe-keep and dispose of case records, retrieve the requested file
96
and make the file available to the requester, attend to queries from parties and
members of the public, record documents received, ensure systematical
recording of Court files, keep record of requests received from litigants, attend
to case management and set down notice, implement case management
practices (placing request forms in the space of a file that has been requested,
complete and file the movement sheet). render case management duties,
monitor files and records as per the case management, submit leave forms to
HR for compliance, maintain and keep all registers for filing and archiving,
comply with the telephone prescripts and leave policies, prepare and sign
performance agreement timeously.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr PA Nkone Tel No: (012) 492 7606
HR Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/80/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 25/118 : TYPIST REF NO: 2026/81/OCJ
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Northern Cape Provincial Service Centre: Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant should be in possession of Grade 12 Certificate. No experience is
required. A valid driver’s license will serve as added advantage. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge
of legal terminology, Court procedures, rules and environment, counter
services, filing system, understanding of legislative governing the Public
Service (Batho Pele Principles & PSR), computer literacy (Microsoft Office)
typing skills (speed 35 words per minute), Dictaphone typing skills, good
problem – solving skills, effective communication skills (written and verbal),
time management skills, client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Type Court orders, Court documents and reports, type judgements, compile
term roll, week roll and un/opposed motion and maintain registers, compile and
submit relevant Judgements to Stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms T Methu Tel No: (053) 492 3497
HR Related Enquiries: Ms P Netshivhale Tel No: (053) 492 3535
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/81/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 25/119 : USHER MESSENGER REF NO: 2026/69/OCJ
SALARY : R170 226 - R200 523 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of The High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant should be in possession of Grade ten (10) Certificate. No experience
is required. Grade 12 Certificate, a minimum of one (1) year’ experience in
general administration, general computer knowledge and intermediate
experience will serve as added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements. Skills and Competencies: Good communication skills,
interpersonal skills, planning and organising skills and computer skills
(Intermediate).
DUTIES : Escort Judges to Court and attend proceedings, all the Court to session, hand
exhibits and documents between the counsel and Judge, assist in person
litigants with Court-on-line in the Courtroom and in the general office, general
messenger duties inside and outside of the Court, collect and distribute post,
parcels, files and documents, photocopying of documents and Judgments,
assist in other administration sections during term and recess as requested by
Chief Registrar and Court Manager
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms N Hanekom Tel No: (021) 480 2636
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/69/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
97
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be posted / or hand-delivered to: The Department of
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (DPME), Attention: Human Resource
Admin & Recruitment, at Private Bag X944. Pretoria, 0028 or hand delivered
to 330 Grosvenor Street, Hatfield, Pretoria 0028 (please quote the relevant
post and reference number).
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026 @ 16:30
WEBSITE : www.dpme.gov.za
NOTE : The relevant reference number must be quoted on all applications. The
successful candidate will have to sign an annual performance agreement and
will be required to undergo a security clearance. Applications must be
submitted on a signed Z83 accompanied by a comprehensive CV only
specifying all experience indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well as
indicating three reference persons with the following information: name and
contact number(s), email address and an indication of the capacity in which the
reference is known to the candidate. Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates only.
Applicants will be required to meet vetting requirements as prescribed by
Minimum Information Security Standards. The DPME is an equal opportunity
affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
Failure to submit the above information will result in the application not being
considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Reference
checks will be done during the selection process. Note that correspondence
will only be conducted with the short-listed candidates. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Shortlisted candidates
must be available for interviews at a date and time determined by DPME.
Applicants must note that pre-employment checks will be conducted once they
are short-listed and the appointment is also subject to positive outcomes on
these checks, which include security clearance, security vetting, qualification
verification and criminal records. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
For salary levels 11 to 15, the inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three
(3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. The DPME reserves the right to utilise practical exercises/tests for
non-SMS positions during the recruitment process (candidates who are
shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of
candidates for the post(s). The DPME also reserves the right to cancel the
filling / not to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the
recruitment process. Prior to appointment, a candidate would be required to
complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior
Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online course,
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Candidates are required to use the new Z83 (Application for employment) that
is implemented with effect from 1 January 2021. A copy can be downloaded on
the website of the Department of Public Service & Administration (DPSA) at
www.dpsa.gov.za
98
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/120 : SENIOR EVALUATION OFFICER REF NO: 03/2026
Chief Directorate: Evaluation
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 6/7) qualification in Social
Science, Public Administration or related fields with at least 2 years’ experience
in Evaluation/ Research/ Monitoring. An NQF level 8 qualification (Bachelors
Honours Degree/ Post Graduate Diploma) with Research / Monitoring /
Evaluation will be an added advantage. Competencies and Skills: Should have
knowledge of Evaluation/ Research Practice. Must have report-writing skills.
Must have good verbal and written communication skills. Exceptional
interpersonal skills. Good computer literacy and project management skills.
Must have a valid Driver’s license. Personal Attributes: Ability to accept
responsibility, work independently and produce good quality of work. Must be
a team player, flexible and reliable.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing administrative and
technical support to evaluation projects within the National Evaluation System.
This entails the implementation of the National Evaluation Policy Framework,
supporting coordination of trainings and development to enhance the
evaluation capacity in the National Evaluation System. Undertake and provide
support in the implementation of the National Evaluation Plan projects and
other related projects. Provide evaluation and technical support to the Chief
Directorate and stakeholders. Support procurement processes for evaluation
projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Motlalagohle Rangwato Tel No: (012) 312-0480
APPLICATIONS : can be sent to Recruitment24@dpme.gov.za
POST 25/121 : SENIOR PERSONNEL OFFICER REF NO: 04 /2026 (X2 POSTS)
Sub-Directorate: OD, HR Planning and Administration
SALARY : R280 278 – R330 162 per annum (Level 06), plus benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
EQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma/ Degree qualification (NQF level 6/7) in Human Resource
Management / Public Management/ Administration or Industrial Psychology
and at least 2 years’ experience in the HR environment. Introduction to
PERSAL Course will be an added advantage. Competencies/Skills: Planning
& Organisation skills, Computer literacy and sound knowledge of the Microsoft
Office suite. PERSAL and communication skills. Knowledge of HR policies and
practices.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to providing an effective
Recruitment & HR Admin Services. This entails administration of service
benefits and allowances. Manage recruitment & selection process. Manage
appointments and staff exits. Audit HRM files for accuracy and compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tiyimiseleni Masinge Tel No: (012) 312-0461.
APPLICATIONS : can be sent to Recruitment25@dpme.gov.za
POST 25/122 SENIOR REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 05/2026
Registry Services
SALARY : R280 278 – R330 162 per annum (Level 06), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant 3-year tertiary qualification (NQF 06) or equivalent with a minimum
of 3 years appropriate experience. Security Clearance certificate will be an
added advantage. Should possess the following skills; computer literacy;
planning and organising skills, good verbal and written communication.
Knowledge of Registry practices and Archive Legislation.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to provide effective registry
service to the Department. This entails the rendering of the registry counter
services to the Department. The handling of incoming and outgoing
correspondence. The rendering of and effective and efficient filing and records
management service (Electronic Document Management System (EDMS).
The operating of office machines in relation to the registry functions. The
processing of documents for archiving and maintaining of records of archived
documents. The compiling of statistics/information.
99
ENQUIRIES : Ms Betty Sebuyana Tel No: (012) 312-0462
APPLICATIONS : can be sent to Recruitment26@dpme.gov.za
100
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION
It is the intention to promote representivity in the Department through the filling of these posts. The
candidature of applicants from designated groups especially in respect of people with disabilities will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed.
CLOSING DATE : 03 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be downloaded at
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/.’’From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it
will not be considered”, a recent comprehensive CV; contactable referees
(telephone numbers and email addresses must be indicated); Applicants are
not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents
on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents, all non-
SA citizens must attach a copy of proof of permanent residence in South Africa
on or before the day of the interviews). Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to personnel
suitability checks on criminal records, citizenship verification, financial records,
qualification verification and applicants could be required to provide consent
for access to their social media accounts. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3)
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/123 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: GENERAL BENEFITS REF NO: DPSA 07/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
all-inclusive remunerative package consists of basic salary (70% of the total
remuneration package), the State’s contribution to the Government Employees
Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate, a minimum qualification at NQF Level 7 in Public
Administration/Public Management/Human Resource Management/Labour
Relations/Economics/Law and a related qualification in the above-mentioned
fields. A minimum of 3 years' experience at the first management
level/Assistant Director level with a minimum of 5 years' appropriate
experience in the Conditions of Service environment. Knowledge of the
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa; government legislative framework
with specific reference to employment legislation, public service legislative and
policy framework, government programs such as the National Development
Plan, and key strategic priorities of the government. General benefits theory
and practice, research and analysis, policy development and implementation,
and data management. Decision-making, problem-solving, written and verbal
communication, stakeholder management and coordination, strategic thinking
and leadership, analytical skills, interpersonal relations, teamwork, financial
management, human resource management, change management, and
project and program management. Diversity management, communication and
information management, facilitation, negotiation, presentation, report writing,
computer literacy, and conflict management.
101
DUTIES : Develop and implement prescripts in relation to leave of absence, incapacity
leave, and ill-health retirement for the public service and conduct research to
guide the development of prescripts. Provide implementation support to
national and provincial departments and relevant entities. Undertake
interventions to support the implementation of and compliance with the
prescripts. Provide technical support and capacity building and advise as
required. Monitor the implementation and compliance on leave of absence,
incapacity leave, and ill-health retirement for the public service and support the
operations, systems, and processes of the directorate. Conduct evaluation and
impact studies as required. Make contributions to the development of the Chief
Directorate service delivery model, standards, improvement plans, and related
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Samson Radebe Tel No: (012) 336 1569
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert072026@dpsa.gov.za
POST 25/124 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DISABILITY MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPSA 08/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
all-inclusive remunerative package consists of basic salary (70% of the total
remuneration package), the State’s contribution to the Government Employees
Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate, a minimum qualification at NQF Level 7 in Public
Administration/Public Management/Human Resource Management/ Industrial
Psychology/Industrial and Organisational Psychology/ Social Science as
recognised by SAQA. Minimum 8 years’ experience in Disability Management
Environment. Knowledge of public service policy frameworks, knowledge of
legislative and policy environments, knowledge of public service and
administration, a white paper on the transformation of the public service (1995),
advanced knowledge of a white paper on affirmative action, and advanced
knowledge of a handbook on reasonable Accommodation for people with
disabilities in the public service workplace, 2007; advance knowledge on
strategic frameworks for the recruitment, employment, and retention of persons
with disabilities in the public service workplace, 2009; advance knowledge on
employment equity and affirmative action programs; and advance knowledge
of relevant international instruments/agreements. Research and analysis,
policy development, data management, technical ability in disability
management, diversity management, communication and information
management, disability mainstreaming, monitoring and evaluation, and
governance and compliance. Decision-making, problem-solving, Written and
verbal communication, Stakeholder management and coordination, Strategic
thinking and leadership, analytical skills, interpersonal relations, teamwork,
confidentiality, financial management, human resource management, and
change project and program management. Generic skills: Facilitation,
negotiation, presentation, report writing, computer literacy, and conflict
management.
DUTIES : Develop and review prescripts in relation to disability management for the
public service. Conduct research to guide the development of prescripts.
Provide implementation support to national and provincial departments and
relevant entities. Provide technical support and capacity building and advise as
required. Undertake interventions to support the implementation of and
compliance with the prescripts. Monitor the implementations and compliance
on disability management for the public service and support the operations,
systems, and processes of the directorate. Develop and maintain systems to
monitor compliance. Conduct evaluation and impact studies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Anusha Naidoo Tel No: (012) 336 1328
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert082026@dpsa.gov.za
102
POST 25/125 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PRODUCTIVITY AND CAPABILITY MEASUREMENT
REF NO: DPSA 09/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
all-inclusive remunerative package consists of basic salary (70% of the total
remuneration package), the State’s contribution to the Government Employees
Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate, a minimum qualification at NQF Level 7 in Public
Administration/Public Management/Business Administration/Management
Services/Industrial Psychology/Operations/Production Management or a
related qualification in the abovementioned fields as recognised by SAQA.
Minimum 8 years’ experience in Public Administration/Policy
Development/Research environment. Knowledge of the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa, knowledge of government legislation framework,
knowledge of government programmes such as the National Development
Plan, a sound understanding of operations management and a sound
understanding of productivity measurements. Understanding of Productivity
Measurement, understanding of operation management frameworks and the
use of data systems Operational research techniques. Research and data
analysis, policy analysis, forecasting, writing skills and measuring regulatory
performance. monitoring and evaluation, Innovation and research, Strategic
thinking and leadership, financial management and human resource
management. Confidentiality, honesty, ethics, loyalty, reliability and
trustworthiness.
DUTIES : Develop and monitor the implementation of policies, prescripts, and
frameworks on productivity and capability measurement. Conduct research on
productivity and capability measurement. Develop, implement and maintain
norms and standards to institutionalise productivity and capability
measurement. Provide technical support services to departments on
productivity and capability measurement. Provide technical advice and
capacity building to support implementation. Conduct monitoring and
evaluation of compliance on productivity and capability measurements.
Develop and maintain systems to monitor compliance. Compile and publish
case study reports on productivity. Provide support in all the operations,
systems and processes of the Directorate. Develop and submit the
Directorate's annual and operational plans and related monthly and annual
reports by the stipulated dates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Poloko Segale Tel No: (012) 336 1124
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert092026@dpsa.gov.za
POST 25/126 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EVALUATIONS REF NO: DPSA 10/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09). Annual progression up to a maximum salary
of R573 897 per annum is possible, subject to satisfactory performance.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate, a minimum qualification at NQF Level 6 in Social Sciences
/ Statistics/Data Sciences or related qualification in the above-mentioned fields.
Minimum 3 years’ appropriate experience in the field of statistical analysis/data
sciences/compliance monitoring and evaluation. Knowledge of the Constitution
of the Republic of South Africa, government legislative framework, public
service legislative and policy framework, government programs such as the
National Development Plan, and key strategic priorities of government.
Attributes: Ethics and integrity, strategic thinking and initiative, analytical skills,
teamwork, empathy, confidentiality, and time management. Generic skills:
problem solving, diversity management, written and verbal communication,
information & records management, interpersonal relations and conflict
resolution, facilitation, presentation, report writing, computer literacy, conflict
management, stakeholder management and coordination, teamwork, human
resources management, change management, project management,
conceptual thinking, mentoring and coaching, and negotiation skills. Technical
skills: Compliance monitoring and management, monitoring and evaluation
103
practice, database development and information management, Analytical
reports, visual presentations, Norms and standards compliance promotion and
monitoring, systems design/development, business analysis, design thinking,
data analysis, business process mapping, and research.
DUTIES : Draft frameworks, guidelines, tools and systems. for public administration
norms and standards compliance monitoring. Conduct research for the
development of the Compliance Monitoring Framework, including guidelines,
systems, tools, databases and formats for data collection and reporting.
Provide assistance towards the development, design, implementation, and
evaluation of early warning and reporting systems for monitoring of compliance
with public administration norms and standards compliance. Evaluate the
efficacy of compliance monitoring systems and report on systems’ functionality.
Collate and analyse compliance data from the early warning system regularly.
Identify areas of non-compliance and provide implementation support to
departments to ensure compliance. Advise internal and external stakeholders
on compliance areas, frameworks, and compliance information. Monitor and
evaluate compliance by departments and report biannually on the state of
compliance to determined public administration norms and standards. Provide
support in all the operations, systems and processes of the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Matloga Tel No: (012) 336 1626
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert102026@dpsa.gov.za
POST 25/127 : FINANCE CLERK (SUPERVISOR) REF NO: DPSA 11/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07). Annual progression up to a maximum salary
of R398 277 per annum is possible, subject to satisfactory performance.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA and a
minimum of 3 years’ experience in the field of financial administration
(payments and suspense accounts). Knowledge of financial functions, basic
accounting systems, LOGIS, Safety Web, public service financial legislation
and prescripts (PFMA and Treasury Regulations), planning and organisation.
Generic skills: Interpersonal relations, teamwork, reliability, flexibility, verbal
and written communication, leadership skills, conflict management and
resolution, planning skills, organisation and execution skills. Technical skills:
computer literacy (Microsoft), office equipment operating skills, numeracy
skills, accuracy, literacy and problem-solving. Attributes: Aptitude for figures,
analytical ability, and ability to lead a team. Ability to work under pressure, client
orientation, customer focus, ability to perform routine tasks and innovation.
DUTIES : Supervise, authorise and perform financial accounting transactions. Handle
payment queries, authorise payments on LOGIS and confirm compliance with
the PFMA. Supervise and perform bookkeeping support services. Compile or
receive journals from subordinates and verify whether the required supporting
documents are attached. Administer LOGIS commitments on BAS. Schedule
quarterly meetings between Finance and Supply Chain Management for
discussion of the register. Prepare and provide inputs to the Interim and Annual
Financial Statements and supervise human resources/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Jane Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 336 1021
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application toAdvert112026@dpsa.gov.za
POST 25/128 : HR CLERK SUPERVISOR (CONDITIONS OF SERVICES) REF NO: DPSA
12/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07). Annual progression up to a maximum salary
of R398 277 per annum is possible, subject to satisfactory performance.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification at NQF level 4 as recognised by
SAQA. 3-5 years of experience in Human Resource Management and
Administration (Conditions of Services). Working knowledge and
104
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment. Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, and operate computer. Understanding of the work in registry.
Knowledge of human resources management policies, practices and
procedures. Sound understanding of the DPSA strategy. Knowledge of HR
information systems. Generic skills: Client orientation and customer focus,
numeracy, problem-solving skills, diversity management, good interpersonal
skills, good verbal and written communication skills and information
management skills, report writing, and computer literacy. Technical skills:
PERSAL system.
DUTIES : Implement conditions of service and service benefits (Leave, Housing, Medical
Aid, Injury on Duty, Long Service Recognition, overtime, relocation, Pension,
allowances etc.). Termination of service. Recommend (approve) transactions
on PERSAL according to delegations. Prepare reports on human resource
administration issues and statistics. Maintain human resources information
(audit queries, statistics, and annual reports). Development, implementation,
maintenance, monitoring, improvement, and communication of relevant HR
policies, guidelines and procedure manuals with regards to Conditions of
Services. Administer leave and ensure maintenance of leave on HR
information systems, leave gratuity and discounting. Provide advice on HR
Conditions of Services issues and policies; receive queries from Line Function
and other stakeholders (GEMS and GEPF). Respond to enquiries and queries
(oral or written) and provide ad hoc support. Implementation and maintenance
of PILIR. Implementation and maintenance of relevant functionalities on HR
Information Management Systems and provide advice on utilisation of the
system
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T.N. Ntsiko Tel No: (012) 336 1163
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert122026@dpsa.gov.za
105
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : For emailed applications, please submit a Single PDF document or One
Attachment per application to the email address designated on the specific
position. Kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments should not
exceed 15MB. It remains the candidate’s responsibility to ensure that their
application is successfully submitted using the required single pdf document.
Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria. For Attention: Ms NP
Mudau.
Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or Hand Deliver at
Ground floor, Customs House, Lower Heerengracht Street, Cape Town. For
Attention: Ms. C Rossouw
Bloemfontein Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager:
Department of Public Works, P/Bag X 20605, Bloemfontein 9300 or Hand
delivered 18 President Brand Street, Bloemfontein 9300. For Attention: Mr T
Mosia or Mr. T Mofokeng
Durban Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager: Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner Dr
Pixley Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban. For Attention: Ms NS
Nxumalo
Kimberly Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X5002, Kimberley 8301 or Hand Deliver at 21-23
Market Square Old Magistrate Building Kimberley 8301.For Attention: Ms V
Tidikwe
Port Elizabeth Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X 3913, North End, Port Elizabeth,
6056. Hand delivery: Room 430, Corner. Hancock & Robert Street, North End,
Port Elizabeth, 6056. For Attention: Ms PT Buswa.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026 at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
106
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https: www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-entry
programme/.All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/129 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY MANAGEMENT (REGIONS) REF NO:
2026/279
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management Service)
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Security Management or in the related field. NIA Security advisory
training / SSA Managers Course. Relevant years of working experience at a
Junior Management /Assistant Director equivalent level in the security field. A
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage access control and physical security measures. Conduct physical
security audits to the building to determine suitability of physical security
measures. Conduct threats and risk assessment and implement
recommendations. Create security awareness regarding access control
measures and compliance thereof. Manage access control security system and
maintenance thereof. Develop and implement information strategy for the
Department, identify information security risks and threats to the security of the
department and vulnerabilities in the organizational capacity to counter such,
Advice regional manager regarding the security implications of executive
decisions. Facilitate the management of information security-related issues by
the Security Committee. Maintain records of information security
breaches/incidents. Management of contracted private security service
providers, develop security specifications for the tender, leading regarding the
procurement of service provider. Co-ordinate of vetting and screening, identify
staff who deal with sensitive information for vetting, conduct vetting and
screening awareness to the regional staff. Investigation of security breaches
incidents, develop and implement security breaches reporting procedures,
investigate all reported security breaches incidents and write reports. Manage
performance management of the security staff, develop, implement, evaluate
and monitor the performance agreements with security personnel, assess
performance of security staff, supervise and mentor security staff, maintain
discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Hlengwa Tel No: (047) 502 7010
APPLICATIONS : For Port Elizabeth: Email to: RecruitPE26-29@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/130 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROPERTY INVESTMENT ANALYST (FINANCE)
REF NO: 2026/280
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma / B. Com Degree in Commerce, Property Economics, Property
107
Studies, or Real Estate Finance. Willingness to travel. Be in possession of a
valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act. Relevant
experience in portfolio and property investment analysis. Sound experience in
conducting property and project feasibility studies is required. A good
understanding and competence in the context of the built environment with a
working knowledge of property industry related: financial modelling and
investment analysis methodologies and tools. Develop innovative financing
methods applicable to government, working knowledge of applicable
government legislation, regulation, rates and indices. Financial management
and knowledge of the leasing environment. Developed knowledge and
understanding of National Government’s responsibility to improve access to
Government services and Objectives. Legislative and legal aspects of built
environment developments and informed decision-making. Skills: Computer
literate. Time management. People management. Report-writing. Well-
developed project management. Analytical. Planning. Interpersonal and
communication skills. Executive report-writing and presentation skills. Personal
Attributes: Trustworthy, Dependable, Innovative, Hardworking, Analytical
thinking, Ability to work under pressure, Self-motivated, Creative.
DUTIES : Apply policies, methods, best practices and standards well as ensure
compliance with Departmental requirements and legislation. Conduct cost
benefit and risk return assessments for the government’s new and existing
property portfolio. Visit building sites to assess and develop reports. Interpret,
analyse and utilize property, indicators, benchmarks, property market trends,
client accommodation needs and asset values in addition to using inputs from
a multidisciplinary professional team to perform property investment analysis
and life cycle costing, for new construction, refurbishment, replacement and
leasing and disposal of immovable assets. Assess the financial and socio-
economic benefits for all property investment / disinvestment option. Conduct
sensitivity analysis to enable the formulation of proactive strategies for
optimum portfolio management. Assess and make recommendations on
investment opportunities that avail themselves to the department and their
impact in terms of risk / reward for government and compliance with
government rules and regulation. Provide input, guidance and interpretation of
feasibility studies on various projects. Advise and recommend for investment /
disinvestment of fixed assets, analyse and recommend innovative
procurement or finance option available to government. Manage the
compilation of feasibility study reports within a multidisciplinary team and
according to given time frames. Executive report writing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Bedesi, Cell No: (072) 561 9731
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-61@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/131 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: USER DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2026/281
(Re-advertisement for PSVC 20 of 2026, Ref No: 2026/241-applicants who
previously applied are encouraged to re-apply)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three year-tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Public Administration, Management, Public Relations and
Communication, Real Estate Management or Social Science. Relevant years
of experience within stakeholder engagement, coordination in any field of
property and a valid driver’s license. The ideal candidate should have planning
skills, programme management, and client relations skills. An understanding of
different facets of the built environment and property industry is essential.
Knowledge: Works Control System (WCS); Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA); Treasury Regulations; knowledge of the built environment; project and
programme management; construction regulations; occupational health and
safety; Emerging Contractor Development Programme; sound budgeting;
procurement processes and Government Immovable Asset Management Act
(GIAMA). Skills: Advanced numeracy; organizing; interpersonal skills;
diplomacy; ability to follow a pro-active and creative problem; solving approach;
communication; advanced computer literacy. Personal Attributes: Innovative;
creative; trustworthy; hardworking; self-motivated; ability to work under
pressure; analytical thinking; facilitation; research. Willingness to adapt work
schedule in accordance with office requirements. Committed to designated
tasks.
108
DUTIES : Apply applicable policies, methods, best practices and standards as well as
ensure compliance with relevant user demand management regulations.
Facilitate the delivery of the accommodation services for Client Departments.
Co-ordinate and monitor the budget and expenditure levels of clients
Department. Supervise employees to ensure an effective service delivery. The
incumbent will be responsible for Key Account Management as a contact point
between the National Department of Public Works & Infrastructure and
assigned client departments. Ensure monitoring and implementation of
programmes for leased accommodation, capital works and planned
maintenance services. Render assistance to assigned client departments in
appropriately formulating accommodation requirements, asset plans and
budget. Assist with the consolidation and compilation of accommodation
related information in reporting to the client. Ensure efficient turnaround times
on strategic initiatives and programme related reports. Facilitate, chair and
minute regular forum meetings with client departments. Advice, interact with
and source information from client departments and departmental service
providers. Liaise with internal stakeholders in assisting external stakeholders
with registered queries. Assist with the implementation and management of
Service Level Agreements for client departments. Assist in the preparation of
reports to top management and all relevant stakeholders. Give inputs towards
the compilation and implementation of annual business plans for the
Directorate. Conduct site visits to ensure that state owned properties are
utilized efficiently and optimally. This post will require official travelling, working
64 65 overtime and the incumbent must be willing and be able to travel as and
when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B Ntoni Tel No: (021) 402 2020
APPLICATIONS For Cape town regional office: Email to: RecruitCPT26-69@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/132 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (HIV/AIDS ADVOCACY & SUPPORT) REF NO:
2026/282
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Degree in Social Work/ Psychology or related field of study. Valid
registration with HPCSA or SACSSP. Appropriate relevant working experience
in the field. Valid driver's license. Knowledge of Public Service Act and
Regulations; Programme and Project Management; Financial Management;
Relevant HIV and AIDS related legislations, policies and regulations; National
Strategic Plan on HIV/AIDS, TB & STIs; Integrated Employee Health &
Wellness Strategic Framework; Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Skills:
Report writing, Communication; Facilitation; Interpersonal; Counselling;
Presentation; Confidentiality and code of ethics.
DUTIES : Implement Employee Health and Wellness strategy with special emphasis on
HIV/AIDS and related diseases. Develop legislative frameworks to address
HIV/AIDS and related diseases. Interpret legislation and directives in ensuring
compliance to policies and other legislative mandates. Facilitate the
mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS and other related conditions into departmental
programmes. Ensure compliance with national policies and other relevant
legislations. Conduct ongoing research on HIV/AIDS affairs and benchmark
best practices. Establish and maintain external partnerships. Implement the
National Strategic Plan on HIV/AIDS in partnership with stakeholders. Provide
counselling, preventative and care support. Coordinate periodic HCT sessions,
TB and general health screenings. Develop and implement capacity building
programmes and advocacy on HIV/AIDS and related diseases. Develop an
annual action plan for HIV/AIDS events/activities/awareness campaigns to be
hosted. Establish the processes aimed at reducing stigma and discrimination.
Monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the interventions of HIV/AIDS
program. Compile reports on progress and challenges experienced with the
implementation of the programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Alletah Ntsie Tel No: (012) 406 1747
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-62@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/133 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUDGETS (ACCOUNTS AND BUDGETS OFFICE)
REF NO: 2026/283
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
109
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) / National Diploma
in Financial Management or related Relevant years of experience in the field
at supervisory level. Good verbal and written communication skills; basic
numeracy; advanced interpersonal and diplomacy skills; problem solving skills;
decision making skills; numeracy; statistical skills. Public Finance Management
Act; National Department of Treasury regulations, guidelines and directives;
Departments` Reconciliation processes; Understanding of Governments
financial delegations; Management of governments departments chart of
accounts; Government Budget systems and procedures; Government
Financial Systems; Supply Chain Management; Financial prescripts (GAAP
and GRAP). Ability to work under stressful situations; ability to communicate at
all levels.
DUTIES : Participate in the development, maintenance and implementation of
departmental financial policies. Advice line function on the implementation and
interpretation of financial procedures and policies. Facilitate the
implementation of changes in public finance management policies. Implement
internal control measures in compliance with departmental policies. Facilitate
the implementation of Treasury Regulation in the department. Issue guidelines
to and train line managers on latest developments in public finance
management regulations. Facilitate budget planning, adjustment and reporting.
Verify the capturing of payroll transactions on the accounting system. Monitor
income against budget and review reconciliations. Oversee and undertake the
development of corrective measures when required. Coordinate and review
disclosure notes on revenue collection. Coordinate and collate financial
supporting information for planning purposes. Ensure completeness and
accuracy of financial information. Ensure cash flow management of the
regional office for monthly reporting. Attend to internal and external queries
including audit queries. Report on revenue collected. Attend to and investigate
each transaction on the BAS financial reports to obtain supporting documents
and provide support within the budget sections. Manually authorise journals to
correct cost centres and ensure that all necessary supporting documents are
verifiable and authentic. Approve journals on BAS for the clearing of
transactions to correct cost centres. Ensure that all misallocation of
expenditure are attended to on daily basis. Provide general supervision of
employees. Allocate duties and do quality control of the work delivered by
supervisees. Advice and lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of the
work. Manage performance, conduct and discipline of supervisees. Ensure that
all supervisees are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the
required standard efficiently and effectively. Develop, implement and monitor
work systems and processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Ndiyane Tel No: (021) 402 2108
APPLICATIONS : For Cape town regional office: Email to: RecruitCPT26-70@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/134 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROPERTY PAYMENTS REF NO: 2026/284
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Kimberley Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Finance or Accounting or related. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge
of PFMA, Treasury Regulations and other transcripts. Supervisory experience
in payments of accounts. Computer literacy. (Knowledge of financial and
payment systems will be an added advantage). Relevant years of experience
in payment of municipal accounts, rates and taxes. Report writing and good
communication skills, verbal and written. Organising and problem-solving
abilities. Good financial, interpersonal, analytical and budgeting skills. Ability to
negotiate and manage stakeholders’ i.e. municipalities, client’s department,
landlords and private individuals. Ability to work under pressure. Willing to
adapt work schedule in accordance with office requirements and willing to
travel.
DUTIES : Responsible to supervise the expenditure on properties through supervising
payment of rates and taxes, municipal services, lease rentals and other
property related payment in the region. Implement long-term strategies to
contain municipal services expenditure. Ensure a sound property expenditure
management system, including minimization of accounts payable to avoid
fruitless, wasteful, irregular and unauthorized expenditure. Assist in the
compilation of the sub-directorate’s budget. Ensure that an accurate asset
register is in place and maintained regularly for use in processing expenditure
110
for all state-owned properties. Ensure that all financial transactions for four
stages of the life cycle of the property are recorded and monitored on PMIS.
Responsible for implementing strategies to ensure good audit reports.
Supervise staff and manage their performance according to the Performance
Management System.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Botshobana Tel No: (053) 838 5272
APPLICATIONS : For Kimberly Regional Office: Email to: RecruitKIM26-17@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/135 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT: CONTRACT
MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2026/285
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Kimberley Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Supply Chain Management, Finance or Procurement/ Logistics or
related equivalent qualifications relevant supply chain management, contract
management experience. Knowledge of contract management; SCM
processes and systems. Drivers’ license; prepared to travel; willing to adapt
work schedule in accordance with office requirements. Public Finance
Management Act; Office administration; Procurement and provisioning policies
and procedures; Financial administration processes and LOGIS and BAS
systems; Contractual policies and procedures. Skills: Effective communication;
technical report writing; numeracy; computer literacy; interpersonal relations;
General office administrative and organisational skills. Personal Attributes:
Resourceful; creative; ability to work under stressful situations; ability to
communicate at all levels; people orientated; trustworthy; punctuality;
assertive; hard-working; self-motivated; ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Supervise monitor, analyse and determine actions to ensure proper contract
administration:-Administer variations to the contracts; Evaluate applications for
price adjustments and invoke penalty clauses; Evaluate applications for
variations, amendments and cancelations and develop proposals for approval;
Undertake dispute resolution and ensure that all documentation is prepared
and available to resolve disputes; Maintain proper relationship with suppliers
within the code of ethics to ensure deliver off goods/services; Supervise,
monitor contract compliance by determining whether product/services are
delivered at the right time, of the right quantity, right products, right place, right
conditions, right quality and right price according to the contract; Supervise and
monitor supplier performance according to the contract and service level
agreement.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Khumalo Tel No: (053) 838 5359
APPLICATIONS : For Kimberly Regional Office: Email to: RecruitKIM26-18@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/136 : OFFICE MANAGER: OFFICE OF THE REGIONAL MANAGER REF NO:
2026/286
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Kimberly Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Public Administration/ Management/ Office Management or
equivalent qualification and Appropriate relevant working experience in the
field. A valid driver’s Licence. (Post graduate studies in Management will be an
added advantage). Wide range of office management and administrative tasks,
structure and functioning of the department, conflict management, project
management, Communication (written and verbal), policy analysis and
development, planning and organizing, people management, financial
management, project coordination, problem solving computer literacy,
facilitation and presentation, stakeholder and client liaison, monitoring, report
writing, people orientated, creative, trustworthy, assertive, hard-working, self-
motivated, ability to work independently, ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Administrative Management: Day-to-Day operational management of the office
of the Provincial Head. Manage and oversee logistics within the office of the
RM, manage the workflow of the unit. Co-ordinate high-level meetings in all
aspects. Take charge of invitations and RSVP functions etc. Act as formal
channel of communication between office of the RM and other departments
and organisations. Compile briefing notes as well as other documentation to
adequately prepare the RM for such meetings. Staff Supervision: Recruitment,
training and coaching administrative staff, delegating tasks, monitoring and
111
managing performance of staff in the RM’s Office. Contribute to the
development and promotion of policies and procedures, programmes and
systems under the jurisdiction of the RM. Provide administration support to the
RM with regards to the management of the regional activities. Organise and
attend certain regional meetings. Liaise with relevant stakeholders regarding
outstanding information and issues. Manage due dates of correspondence.
Prepare documentation for meetings, presentations and reports. Coordinate
the preparation and compilation of budget, procurement and cash flow
projections for the region. Undertake research and develop appropriate
policies strategies programmes to be used to promote the region. Ensure
effective document management and correspondence flow within the Office of
RM. Consolidate all Managers’ reports to produce a monthly and quarterly
regional report. Establish and implement effective records and document
management systems. Coordinate responses to and submissions on, all
requests for information from the Office of the RM. Administer office
correspondence, documents and reports. Events Management: planning and
coordinating events within the regional office; Co-ordinate regional workshops
(venues, travel, catering etc.). Financial Management: Manage budget in the
RM’s office. Monitor and report on the financial performance of the region
Facility Management: Ensure that the working environment is clean and safe.
Report and manage repairs in the RM’s quarters, order new furniture and
equipment. Main point of contact for all stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Baulackey Tel No: (053) 838 5202
APPLICATIONS : For Kimberly Regional Office: Email to: RecruitKIM26-19@dpw.gov.za
NOTE : NB: women are encouraged to apply.
POST 25/137 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: LEGAL AND CONTRACTS
ADMINISTRATION (MR 5) REF NO: 2026/287
SALARY : R483 219 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberely Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of four-year degree (LLB) with at least 8 years appropriate post-
qualification Legal experience or 8 years’ experience as an in-house legal
advisor or legal/contract administrator. Willingness to travel on an adhoc basis
and adapt to a work schedule in accordance with professional requirements, A
valid driver’s license. Specialized knowledge of law of contracts and general
administration of contracts within an organizational context, Legal research
and professional legal assistance, In-depth knowledge of the Framework for
Supply Chain Management [Regulations in terms of the Public Finance
Management Act, 1999 (Act No. 1 of 1999) (PFMA)],Code of Conduct for
Supply Chain Management Practitioners, the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, the
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, 2000 (Act No. 5 of 2000), the
State Information Technology Agency Act, 1998 (Act No. 88 of 1998), the Public
Service Act, 1994 (Act No. 103 of 1994), Public Service Regulations and other
relevant legislation. Thorough and proven legal drafting, communication and
presentation skills, Sound analytical and problem identification and solving,
Language proficiency, Maintenance of confidentiality of information, Computer
literacy, Relationship management, Decision-making skills, Interpersonal and
diplomacy, Motivational, Negotiation.
DUTIES : Manage departmental contracts and related legal matters (issue letters of
acceptance to contractors; verify the correctness of contract documentation,
as legally-binding documents for respective parties; manage and safeguard
guarantees; manage and implement court orders as instructed; ensure the
safekeeping of legal records and documents, such as contracts, guarantees,
etc.; and engage with Legal Services and Contract Administration, Head Office,
as and when required),Ensure the extent and effectiveness of managed
contracts and related legal matters, Ensure the extent and effectiveness of the
safety and integrity of legal records, Provide advice, guidance and opinions
regarding the interpretation and implementation of contracts and related legal
matters, Implement and monitor delegated powers as required by National
Treasury and the PFMA, Conduct research and provide professional legal
assistance, advice and support, Draft and verify legal documents, Render
assistance to and liaise with the Office of the State Attorney, in conjunction with
Head Office Legal Services regarding litigation and arbitration in which the
Department is involved, Provide an advisory and supportive role to Project
Managers and the Regional Office, Ensure the extent and effectiveness of
advice, guidance and opinions provided, Ensure the extent of compliance with
112
related standards, Ensure the extent and effectiveness of legal assistance
provided.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Baulackey Tel No: (053) 838 5202
APPLICATIONS : For Kimberly Regional Office: Email to: RecruitKIM26-20@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/138 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
REF NO: 2026/288
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) in Human Resource
Development, Human Resource Management (HRD/M), or any relevant
qualification related to Training and Development field. (ODETDP Certificate
will serve as an added advantage). Appropriate experience in Training and
Development. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Regulatory Framework
related to HR development, including the Skills Development Act, Employment
Equity Act, Public Services Act and Regulations, ETD and Skills development
environment including SETA knowledge; National Skills Development Strategy,
and standards, practices, processes and procedures related to the
management of skills development; Other relevant legislations; Skills:
Excellent communication (verbal and written); Problem Solving and solution
orientated; Data analysis techniques; Presentation Skills; Sound
Organisational skills; Interpersonal relations and ability to perform under
pressure; Programme and Project Management; Report Writing.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate departmental training and development programmes
in line with the Workplace Skills Plan (WSP), Personal Development Plans
(PDPs), departmental objectives, and SAQA specifications. Coordinate the
Compulsory Induction Programme (CIP) and departmental orientation
programmes for newly appointed employees, including liaison with the National
School of Government (NSG), administration, certification, and reporting.
Communicate relevant training interventions in the Department. Obtain
approvals for all trainings to be implemented. Liaise with service providers
regarding training interventions. Ensure and Monitor Compliance with ETQA
specifications. Maintain a database on courses attended and service providers.
Ensure that venues are conducive for training and ensure that all strategic aids
are available. Evaluate the effectiveness of training. Processing of invoices for
all the training conducted. Facilitate debt recoveries for defaulters on training
attended. Provide admin support in the management of training budget.
Compile reports related to training and development services. Assist in
conducting skills audit, WSP and compilation of the annual training report.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Maseko Tel No: (012) 406 1307
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-63@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/139 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE TRAINING
AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO: 2026/289
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Kimberley Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Human Resource Management or related field of study
(qualification). Relevant experience in training and development practices or
related. Knowledge of standards, practices, processes and procedures related
to HR development; structure and functioning of the Department; Employment
Equity Plan of the Department; regulatory framework related to HR
development, including the Skills Development Act; Constitution of the RSA,
Public Service Act and Regulations, Collective Agreements, Codes of
Remuneration and the Public Finance Management Act; Basic numeracy;
interpersonal and diplomacy skills; general administration and organisational
skills; interpretation of policies; ability to undertake basic research/gather
information; computer utilisation; financial administration; change/diversity
management; analytical thinking; problem solving skills; motivational skills;
influencing skills; presentation skills; advanced negotiation skills; conflict
management; communication and report writing abilities. Innovative; creative;
resourceful; ability to work under stressful situations; ability to communicate at
all levels; people orientated; trustworthy; assertive; hard-working; self-
motivated; ability to work independently.
113
DUTIES : Support the skills development process regarding; compliance with legislative
requirements, the skills facilitation process, skills audit of regional
competencies, development of individual development plans, development
and implementation of the workplace skills plan, developing training plans and
reports. Support the provisioning of education, development and training;
support learnership and internship processes, ensure access to skills
development opportunities on the basis of individual development plans,
support the development and participation of mentors and coaches, facilitate
induction programmes, facilitate the certification of successful learners,
support the utilisation of related service providers, maintain the skills
development database, compile data on training statistics, perform nodal point
activities related to skills development administrative functions, provide
secretarial support to regional education, development and training
committees. Assist in the administration of study support; facilitate and market
the allocation of study support, administrate the allocation and management of
bursaries. Support personnel performance management processes; facilitate
and monitor respective performance management processes, provide support
and advice to supervisors and managers on the administration of the
performance management process in general, and particularly during
performance reviews, appraisals and processing of performance bonuses and
rewards, determine and analyse trends on performance management,
including data/statistics on employment equity, support integration of
performance management processes with related HR processes; facilitate the
award of incentives for good performance and monitor the management of poor
performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Baulackey Tel No: (053) 838 5202
APPLICATIONS : For Kimberly Regional Office: Email to: RecruitKIM26-21@dpw.gov.za
NOTE : NB: people with disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 25/140 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PROPERTY DISPOSALS REF NO:
2026/290
(Re-advertisement for PSVC 20 of 2026, Ref No: 2026/243-applicants who
previously applied are encouraged to re-apply)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) / National Diploma
in Real Estate Management, Property Law or related field. Relevant working
experience. Knowledge of PFMA, Financial administration, Procurement
directives and procedures, Reporting procedures, GIAMA, DISPOSAL ACT,
BBBEE, Treasury Regulations, The PIE Act and the Squatter Acts. Skills:
Report writing, Accounts and numeric skills, Analytical thinking, Interpersonal
skills, Problem solving, Organising and planning skills. A valid driver’s license,
willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Administer the disposal process of redundant and superfluous residential
properties. Conduct research to obtain information for the disposal of property
and compile reports, provide admin support in redressing of the property
ownership problem through Land Reform, Liaise with Regional Land claims
commission to check for claims against property to be disposed. Support the
monitoring and evaluation of approved projects in the regional offices.
Administer financial processes on the disposal of fixed assets, Facilitate the
valuation of properties to be disposed, Compile budget review report on
property disposal, Administrate the recovery of state funds, Prepare and
present quarterly projections to the Supply Chain Management. Supervise
employees to ensure an effective service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Murundwa Tel No: (021) 402 2056
APPLICATIONS : For Cape town regional office: Email to: RecruitCPT26-71@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/141 : EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS PRACTITIONER (HRM) REF NO:
2026/291
(Re-advertisement for PSVC 20 of 2026, Ref No: 2026/244-applicants who
previously applied are encouraged to re-apply)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
diploma/ Degree in Social Science or Behavioural related qualification.
114
Registration with professional bodies such as SACSSP and HPCSA. Relevant
years of experience in the field. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance
with professional requirements Knowledge of Employee health and wellness
practices, knowledge and understanding of HIV as a developmental issue,
specialized knowledge of counselling, people management and
empowerment, client orientation and customer focus, Structure and functioning
of the Department and the sector. Language proficiency, effective
communication, presentation skills, general management and organizational
skills, interpretation of policies, ability to undertake research/gather
information, ability to work independently. A valid driver’s license and
willingness to travel is essential.
DUTIES : HIV/AIDS and TB management: Mainstream HIV/AIDS and TB into the core
functions of the department; Provide education, awareness and prevention
programmes. Plan and conduct regular Health screenings. Distribution of
wellness information material and articles. Health and Productivity
Management Services: Coordinate Disease Management & Chronic illnesses
awareness and education sessions, workshops; Support the department with
incapacity cases. Organize Mental Health information sessions and distribution
of articles on a regular basis. Liaise and make referrals to Mental Health
institutions when required. Occupational Health and Safety Management:
create awareness on occupational safety behaviour and provide information
related to Injury on duty. Wellness management: Promote work life balance for
employees. Provide support to Individuals through Wellness intervention
(Psychosocial). Provide counselling to individual employees and their
immediate family members. Conduct group counselling sessions for e.g.
debriefing or trauma. Provide management with feedback through progress
reports on referred cases while maintaining confidentiality. Support and advice
managers on handling employees experiencing wellness related challenges.
Promote individual Physical Wellness by encouraging sports activities. Plan
and conduct retirement sessions. Facilitate and assist in the Medical Health
Surveillance of employees placed in a hazardous environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Rossouw Tel No: (021) 402 2014
For Cape town regional office: Email to: RecruitCPT26-72@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/142 : ARTISAN FOREMAN: CARPENTRY WORKSHOP (FACILITIES
MANAGEMENT) REF NO: 2026/292
SALARY : R397 329 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Appropriate Trade Test Certificate (carpentry). Five years post
qualification experience as an Artisan. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge of the
PFMA and the OHSA. Valid driver’s license. Strong leadership and
management ability. Ability to communicate effectively at operational level.
Must be computer literate.
DUTIES : Effective supervision and management of day-to-day activities of the workshop
staff, conduct inspections, Spot check technical faults for repairs or
maintenance required. Oversee and ensure that quotations are received and
purchase required equipment and materials. Oversee and ensure that the
maintenance and faults repair registers updated. Report writing. Repairs of
faults. Identify training needs, Leave management and personnel performance
management. Compile reports on Workshop activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SL Jikeka Tel No: (041) 408 2074
APPLICATIONS : For Port Elizabeth: Email to: RecruitPE26-30@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/143 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER INVESTMENT ANALYSIS REF NO: 2026/293
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Public Admin/ Property Management / or related field. Be in
possession of a valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of office and
project administration and management. Skills: Time management. People
management. Interpersonal and communication skills. Proven planning and
organizational skills. Financial management and reconciliation skills. Excellent
communication (written and verbal). Computer literacy and operating of MS
Office Suite. Knowledge of LOGIS, BAS and Clickit will be an added
advantage. Personal Attributes: Trustworthy. Dependable. Innovative.
115
Hardworking. Analytical thinking. Ability to work under pressure. Self-
motivated. Creative.
DUTIES : Perform office administrative activities. Administrate office correspondence,
documents and reports. Liaise with stakeholders relevant to the office. Prepare
documentation for meetings, agendas, minutes of meetings, presentations and
reports. Procure office logistical requirements. Manage petty cash claims when
necessary. Administrative Leave Arrangements. Manage the flow of
information and documents in the office. Record incoming and outgoing mail,
distribute to relevant managers and assist with tracking of documentation.
Manage communication to and from the office. Process forms and documents
related to claims, payments and invoices. Assist all members of the unit with
travel arrangements and manage the approval and claim processes. Maintain
the Commitment Register. Prepare that annual procurement plan. Monitor and
Reconcile expenditure. Compile and submit budget reports. Indicate Budget
adjustments as required and manage the process. Maintain project list and
status of projects. Prepare quarterly and annual project reports. Provide budget
information to the manager and colleagues. Handle queries from PPM, KAM,
Regional Offices, Project Managers and other User Departments. Project
Support: receiving projects, copying, request for files to be opened at Registry,
allocation, binding, project tracing, project reporting, deadline monitoring,
support project managers in collecting data, scanning completed reports, filing
completed reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Bedesi, Cell No: (072) 561 9731
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-64@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/144 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO:2026/294
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) / National Diploma
in Financial Management / Accounting/ Cost Accounting or related
qualification. Relevant years of experience in a Financial Accounting
environment. Knowledge of BAS and LOGIS. A valid (Code B or higher) driving
license. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act, National Department of
Treasury regulations, guidelines and directives, Understanding of
Governments financial delegations, Standard Charts of Accounts (SCOA),
Government Budget systems and procedures, Government Financial Systems,
Supply Chain Management, Financial prescripts (GAAP and GRAP). Skills:
Good verbal and written communication skills; Problem solving skills; Decision
making skills; Numeracy. Personal attributes: Ability to work under stressful
situations. Ability to communicate at all levels. People orientated. Able to
establish and maintain networks. Trustworthy. Assertive. Hard-working. Self-
motivated. Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Render goods and services expenditure management services - Authorise
payments on BAS, SAGE and LOGIS. Administer suspense Accounts.
Prepare, maintain and update a detailed payment register for all payments
received and processed at Finance. Track and ensure that all payments are
paid in 30 days. Ensure payments are adequately supported (e.g. order
numbers, invoices). Prepare, capture and authorise journals. Prepare and
process related journals. Resolve queries from regions (e.g. re-issues, re-
submissions, recalls and cancellations). Maintain safe and proper document
control for all financial source documents. Prepare monthly reconciliation of
Financial Systems. Attend to queries from Clients, service providers, internal
line functions, Internal Auditors and external Auditors (AGSA). Keep regions
regularly updated. Safekeeping and monitoring of documents in the batch
room. Provide inputs for the Interim and Annual financial statements. Collect
and process information to determine expenditure against budget. Ensue
correct classification in line with GRAP. Respond to audit queries. Provide
administrative and supervisory services to support effective functioning of the
sub-directorate. Supervise the handling of logistical arrangements in the sub-
directorate. Administer the flow of information in and out of the office. Supervise
subordinates and ensure performance management and development.
Prepare administration reports as required. Supervise continuous adherence
to developed and approved internal controls. Provide support and guidance to
line functions in relation to Financial Accounting processes and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Bakubaku Tel No: (021) 402 2101
APPLICATIONS : For Cape town regional office: Email to: RecruitCPT26-73@dpw.gov.za
116
POST 25/145 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HRD HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: 2026/295
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Human Resources management/skills development or related
qualification. Appropriate relevant years of working experience in human
resources development. Basic numeracy, interpersonal and diplomacy skills.
General administration and organisational skills. Interpretation of policies,
ability to undertake basic research and gather information Computer literacy,
financial administration, diversity management skills. Analytical thinking,
problem solving skills, motivational skills, influencing skills, presentation skills,
negotiation skills, conflict management skills and communication and report
writing abilities. Knowledge of Public service act and regulations, employment
equity act, basic conditions of employment act, labour relations act, collective
agreements, codes of remuneration and the public finance management act. A
valid driver’s license must be prepared to travel and willing to adapt to work
schedule in accordance with office requirements. Personal Attributes: The
ability to work independently and under stressful situations. Must be people
orientated and have the ability to communicate at all levels. Must be
trustworthy, assertive, hardworking, self-motivated innovative, creative and
resourceful.
DUTIES : Support the skills development process with regard to compliance with
legislative requirements, the skills facilitation process, skills audit of regional
competencies, development of individual development plans, development
and implementation of the workplace skills plan (WSP), developing training
plans and reports. Support the provisioning of education , development and
training: ensure access to skills development opportunities on the basis of
individual development plans, support the development and participation of
mentors and coaches, facilitate induction programmes, facilitate the
certification of successful learners, support the utilisation of related service
providers, maintain the skills development database, compile data of training
statistics, perform nodal point activities related to skills development
administrative functions, provide secretarial support to regional education,
development and training committees. Support personnel performance
management processes: facilitate and monitor respective performance
management processes, provide support and advice to supervisors and
managers on the administration of the performance management process in
general and particularly during performance reviews, appraisals and
processing of performance bonuses and rewards. Determine and analyse
trends on performance management, including data/statistics on employment
equity, support integration of performance management processes with related
HR processes, monitor the management of poor performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. P Buwa Tel No: (041) 408 2344
APPLICATIONS : For Port Elizabeth: Email to: RecruitPE26-31@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/146 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION
REF NO: 2026/296
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) / National Diploma
in Human Resources Management or Public Administration. A valid driver’s
license. Appropriate experience in Human Resources Management with
emphasis on Human Resource Administration. (Condition of Services and
Pensions). Knowledge of standards, practices, processes and procedures.
Good Knowledge of PERSAL, CORE, Ability to apply and interpret Legislative
frameworks such as PSA, PSR, EEA and other regulatory prescripts for the
public sector. Data analysis techniques, ability to undertake basic research and
gather information, Computer utilization, good communication and report
writing abilities, analytical skills, interpersonal relations, diplomacy, negotiation
skills, conflict management, and the ability to perform under pressure.
DUTIES : Administration of condition of services and benefits. Providing an advisory
function to DPWI staff on Human Resources policies. Processing of
appointments and service terminations. Administration of pension benefits.
117
Assist in the policy reviews related to condition of services. Ensure that relevant
stakeholders are involved on policy making processes. Assist in sourcing
information needed to report on Audit findings. Compile monthly reports to HR
Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs NS Nxumalo Tel No: (031) 314 7023
APPLICATIONS : For Durban Regional Office: Email to: RecruitDBN26-11@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/147 : ACCOUNTING CLERK (BATCH CONTROLLER) REF NO: 2026/297
(Re-advertisement for PSVC 20 of 2026, Ref No: 2026/250-applicants who
previously applied are encouraged to re-apply)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of a National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12/ equivalent qualification.
No experience required. (Valid Driver’s license will serve as added advantage).
(Knowledge of a financial environment will be advantages). Knowledge of
relevant legislation, regulations and policies. Sound interpersonal and
communication skills, computer literate, multi-tasked skills, self-driven, result
orientated, motivated, meet deadlines and acceptance of responsibility.
Reporting to the State Accountant the incumbent of this position will take
responsibility for: The main responsibility of this post relates to the safekeeping
and management of documents (Batch Control) including the monitoring and
controlling of the adherence to sound accounting and NPDW practices,
prescribed policies and regulations in all transactions. Monitor and control all
documents relating to the different transversal systems.
DUTIES : Ensure correct allocation of expenditure and revenue. Draw financial and other
BAS reports in support of the activities of the unit. It could be expected of the
incumbent to assist in the budget formulation, compiling of a cash flow budget
as well as the 68 69 monthly reporting. As well as performing duties related to
the cashier’s functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Zito, Tel No: (041) 408 2159
APPLICATIONS : For Gqeberha Regional Office: Email to: RecruitPE26-32@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/148 : ADMIN CLERK: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2026/298
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Kimberley Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of a National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12/ equivalent qualification.
No experience required. Arrange travelling and accommodation. Check
correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager
for approval. Wide range of office administrative tasks, good telephone
etiquette, demonstrative computer literacy, relevant legislation, basic financial
administration, advanced communication (verbal and written) sound
organisational skill, good people skill, language skills, ability to communicate
well with people at deferent levels, basic numeracy, interpersonal skills, office
administration and organisational skills, planning and organising, ability to act
with tact and discretion, people orientated, hardworking, resourceful, self-
motivated, trust worthy, creative. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance
with office requirements.
DUTIES : Ensure coordination and record complaints. Ensure that all complaints are
recorded and attended to. Approve the complaints on Archibus System. Update
the status on the Workx4u system using quotation. Capture quotation on the
spreadsheet. Follow up on quotation from Works Managers. Check quotation
versus the complaints and calculations. Administer and capture payments.
Capture approved funds on the system and forward to SCM for order. Follow
up on outstanding orders to be issued from SCM. Receive invoices from SCM,
update and forward works manager for certification. Receive the certified
invoices from works managers. Adhere to 30 days payments of service
providers. Receive a recommended report from Control Works Manager.
Submit the complaints reports to DD for approval. Compile the 415 forms with
the reports and forward to works manager. Receive 415 forms from control
works manager forward to DD for funds approval. Compile accruals. Render
general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and retrieve
correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Handle routine
enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send facsimiles. Distribute
documents/packages to various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain
the filing system for the component. Type basic letters and/or other
118
correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing
register of the component. Provide supply chain clerical support services within
the component. Provide personnel administration clerical support services
within the component. Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and
maintain personnel records in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Xentsa Tel No: (053) 838 5345
APPLICATIONS : For Kimberly Regional Office: Email to: RecruitKIM26-22@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/149 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION (GRADE A): (PLUMBER) WORKSHOP REF
NO:2026/299
(Re-advertisement-applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply)
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein (Regional Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Plumber. Valid driver’s license. Knowledge
of Occupational Health and Safety Act 85, of 1993 and Regulations. Must have
General knowledge of Electrical tools, equipment in the workshop. The
inherent requirement of the job: It will be expected of the incumbent to climb
ladders for inspection, work in confined spaces and perform maintenance on
Government Buildings in relation to Plumbing works.
DUTIES : The successful candidate must be able to compile material quantities per
project, will be required to maintain all Government Buildings including new
work to government buildings, must be willing to work overtime if and when
required, and compile progress reports on projects and monitor Tradesman Aid
and Learners. Report directly to Artisan Foreman or Chief Artisan. Must have
vast knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act 85 of 1993. It will be
expected of the incumbent to participate in various expeditions including
assisting other Regional Office if needs arise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mashinini Tel No: (051) 408 734
APPLICATIONS : For Bloemfontein Regional Office: Email to: RecruitBLOEM26-28@dpw.gov.za
POST 25/150 : TRADEMAN AID WORKSHOP REF NO: 2026/300
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of NQF level 03 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent qualification).
Six months trade related experience. Ability to read and write. Good
communication skills. Knowledge of maintenance in the built environment.
Ability to perform routine tasks.
DUTIES : Assist artisans with regards to repair and maintenance work and take good
care of hand tools, machines and electrical tools. Perform minor repairs and
maintenance work, carry, load and unload tools as well as materials and
movement of Assets. Maintain good housekeeping of Workshop and plant
rooms.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Z. Mashiyane Tel No: (041) 408 2194
APPLICATIONS : For Port Elizabeth Regional Office: Email to: RecruitPE26-33@dpw.gov.za
119
ANNEXURE O
DEPARTMENT OF TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
positions with a candidate whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in the department’s Employment Equity plan. Whites, Coloured,
Indians, youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be posted to: Human Resource Management, Department of
Traditional Affairs, Private Bag X22, Arcadia, 0083 or Hand deliver to: 509
Pretorius Street, Arcadia, 2nd Floor Pencardia 1 Building or e-mail @
DTARecruit202615@cogta.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the NEW Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service department and
signed when submitted. From 1 January 2021 should an application be
received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), the application
will not be considered. Only shortlisted candidates will submit relevant
documents. Applicants should submit CV and Z83 only. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies a day before the interview date. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Persons with a disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA)
and to provide proof of such evaluation only when shortlisted. Incomplete
applications or applications received after the closing date will not be
considered. It is important to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to
ensure that all information and attachments in support of the application are
submitted by the due date. Due to the large number of responses anticipated,
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The department
reserves the right not to fill the advertised position.
OTHER POST
POST 25/151 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: 2026/15
(12 months Contract)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 37% in lieu of service benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in Internal Auditing
at NQF level 7 plus 3-5 years’ experience in an Internal Auditing environment
Generic competency: Service delivery innovation, problem solving and
analysis, client orientation and customer focus, computer literacy,
communication. Technical competencies: Assurance, Consulting and
performance audits, risk management and auditing practices, the Public
Finance Management Act, development of policies.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Provide inputs and
implement operational, strategic plans, policies, procedures and internal audit
methodology, conduct audits and investigations for the Department as required
by the audit standards, draft and discuss the audit findings with the supervisor
and management, follow-up on internal audit findings recommended for
management actions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JJ Appel Tel No: (012) 065 3448
NOTE : Youth and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
120
ANNEXURE P
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Department of Transport is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment
equity targets. Preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in
achieving its Employment Equity targets at these specific levels in terms of the Department’s
Employment Equity Plan, therefore White male / female, Coloured male/ female, Indian male / female and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Transport, Private Bag X193, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at
the 159 Forum Building, Cnr Struben and Bosman Street, Pretoria for attention
Recruitment Unit. Room 4034 or email to: Recruitment@dot.gov.za or at e-
recruitment system: erecruit.transport.gov.za. Note: email applications must be
sent as one attachment to avoid non-delivery of the email and only quotes the
name of the post you are applying for on the Subject Line as directed on the
post note.
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a completed new Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department, (or obtainable at). Applicants must fill in
full new Z83 form part A, B, C, and D. A recent updated comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
dates). Applicants will submit certified copies of all qualifications and ID
document on the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other
must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall
score both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview
process; the logistics will be communicated to candidates prior to the
interviews. Recommended candidates will also be required to attend a
Psychometric Assessments as part of the recruitment process. Recommended
candidates will also be required to generic managerial competency
assessment after the interviews also take a note that National School of
Governance (NGS) has introduce compulsory SMS pre-entry certificate with
effect from 01 April 2020 as Minimum Entry Requirements for Senior
Management Services (submitted prior to appointment) and can be accessed
through the following link: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entry-programme/. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. The successful candidate must disclose to the Director-
General particulars of all registrable financial interests, sign a performance
agreement and employment contract with the Director-General within three
months from the date of assumption of duty. The successful candidate must be
willing to sign an oath of secrecy with the Department. Applicants will be
expected to be available for selection interviews and assessments at a time,
date and place as determined by the Department. An offer letter will only be
issued to the successful candidate once the following has been verified
educational qualifications, previous experience, citizenship, reference checks
and security vetting. Please note: Correspondence will only be entered into
with short-listed candidates.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/152 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: DOT/
HRM/2026/29
Branch: Rail Transport
Chief Directorate: Rail Infrastructure and Industry Development
Directorate: Rail Infrastructure
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), all-inclusive
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum qualification of NQF 7 as recognised by SAQA in Mechanical or
Civil Engineering with 3 years’ experience at a management or Assistant
Director level in the rail or transport environment. Knowledge And Skills: An
understanding of the transport sector and rail industry, A sound knowledge of
the rail infrastructure, policies and prescripts, A sound knowledge of freight
network planning, maintenance plans and monitoring, Transport planning and
121
or development planning/economics background, The project management
skills are essential, Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA)
AND Treasury Regulations, An understanding of intergovernmental relations,
Compliance of management reports. Communication. Verbal & Written
communication – English – above average, Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage rail planning in the context of institutional arrangements and
governance structures. Coordinate the information and data pertaining to rail
planning and infrastructure. Integrate transport planning, land use and urban
planning. Promote the development of rail infrastructure in relation to
government priorities and objectives. Manage the resources of the Sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : MR Jan David De Villiers Tel No: (012) 309 3642
POST 25/153 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: TRAVEL SERVICES AND
RECONCILIATION REF NO: DOT/ HRM/2026/30
Branch: Corporate Services
Chief Directorate: Corporate Management
Directorate: Travel and Facilities Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), all-inclusive
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 6 in Public Management / Administration /
Procurement / Finance / Transport and Logistics Management with 1 year
relevant experience in travel procurement, finance or payment and
reconciliation environment. Knowledge And Skills: Communication /written
(minute taking, correspondence, reports), Computer literacy, (Microsoft,
Internet, Email), Financial management, PFMA and Treasury Regulation,
Travel Policy for Department, thorough understanding of prescripts within
government. Communication. Good written and verbal abilities, Ability to
communicate with all officials at all levels, Have a positive, open, friendly
disposition in all communications, Confident.
DUTIES : Reconcile travel account (Air Transport, Accommodation, CarRental, and
Shuttle); Perform payment of accounts; Attend to and resolve queries on
Payments; Identify irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure. batches.
ENQUIRIES : MR Gregory Sekgabi Tel No: (012) 309 3443
122
ANNEXURE Q
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 03 August 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It should be noted that the
National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship checks will be conducted
on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable, additional checks will be
conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive effective 01 April 2024. Please
note that by responding to our advertisement/s, you consent to the collection,
processing, and storing of your Personal Information for internal HR processes
in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), Act No.
4 of 2013. In the event that your application is unsuccessful, the Department
will retain your personal information only for audit purposes as required by
policies, only for a specific period, of which the submitted documents will then
be destroyed as legislated in the National Archives Act. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level
certificates) evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at
your own expense. Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required
to disclose particulars of all registrable financial interests and to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. NOTE: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za. Kindly note that all
123
National Treasury adverts published/LIVE on the eRecruitment System have a
closing date listed and closing time of 12h00 (Midday) on that closing date. The
system is designed to automatically remove the advert from public view at
exactly 12h00 (Midday) of the said closing date for that post. There are no other
means to submit applications post the closing date and time, if you have missed
or delayed in submitting on time.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/154 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REF NO: S085/2026
Division: Asset And Liability Management (ALM)
Purpose: To exercise financial performance oversight to all shareholder entities
which includes the Schedule 3A State Owned Companies (SOC’s) as well as
the Land Bank, SASRIA, DBSA and PIC reporting to the Minister of Finance
through the monitoring and evaluation of their financial performance in
compliance with prescribed legislation.
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (Incl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, coupled with a National Diploma (equivalent to NQF
level 6) in Accounting or Finance. A Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level
7) in any of the above disciplines is added advantage. A minimum 4 years’
experience of which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level or
equivalent obtained in a financial institution. Exposure and knowledge in
engaging with SOC’s. Knowledge and experience of analysing financial
reports, business and strategic plans. Knowledge of the PFMA, Treasury
Regulations and the SOC’s policy framework.
DUTIES : Review and implement any legislative and other Treasury’s Reporting
requirements in terms of the Public Finance Management Act and Treasury
Regulations: Participate in key legislative and policy reforms related to these
entities and contribute through formal written input and other stakeholder
engagement. Participate in key discussions related to Instruction Notes and
updates and where possible, identify challenges with existing Instruction Notes
and entity compliance by making submissions to the relevant authority such as
the OAG/OCPO. Stay abreast of any policy and treasury reporting
requirements and be a key interface with entities to ensure compliance.
Financial Analysis and Reporting: Evaluate Strategic Plans/ Shareholders
Agreements and establish performance agreements and indicators for SOC’s.
Analyse SOC’s expenditure trends. Monitor financial management and
performance in SOC’s as prescribed by the PFMA and Treasury Regulations.
Review annual reports of SOC’s reporting to the Minister. Monitor the
performance of SOC’s in alignment with set objectives and programmes.
Budget Analysis, review of annual budget allocations: Review and assess
Public Entities MTEF, AENE and ENE budget allocations. Draft chapters and
provide inputs relevant to the ENE. Review, research, analysis of fiscal
implications and engage through submissions on public entities in alignment
with legislation, regulation, policy proposals, and service delivery trends.
Prepare submissions and engage the Chief Financial Officer on retention and
roll-overs of surplus funds. Stakeholder Engagement: Engage SOC’s and liaise
on the provision of information, inputs and recommendations. Provide advice
to the Director-General and Minister on Cabinet Memoranda, Ministerial
correspondence and policy issues, pertaining to SOC’s. Contribute to NT
publications, MTBPS, Budget Review, and ENE.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 25/155 : PROGRAMME COORDINATOR REF NO: S088/2026
Division: Tax And Financial Sector Policy (TFSP)
Purpose: To coordinate and render administrative support services to the
business unit, striving towards the attainment of a cohesive and broader
integrated working environment.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, coupled with a minimum National Diploma (NQF level
6) or any relevant B. Degree (NQF level 7) in Human Resources Management/
Business Management/ Project Management/Public Administration. A
minimum of 2 years’ experience obtained in a Human Resources/
124
Administrative environment. Knowledge of the legislative framework on
administration management within government. Knowledge and exposure to
the coordination of budget processes. Knowledge of the analysis and
interpretation of internal policies and the correct application thereof.
DUTIES : Integrated Business Support: Co-ordinate and perform quality assurance on
processes of all incoming and outgoing memoranda for service enhancement
and standardization. Develop and maintain a filing system for record and audit
purposes within the Chief Directorate. Monitor the effectiveness of service
delivery within the Chief Directorate and propose improvements where
necessary. Administer leave centrally within the business environment and
updates the leave register for verification. Assist with the monitoring of all
procurement and administrative initiatives and verify alignment of claims and
invoices. Provide input to memoranda and record receipt thereof on the
electronic filing system for record purposes, editing, etc, if and when required.
Organise and document travel itineraries, including confirmation of all relevant
bookings both nationally and/or internationally. Business Support:
Acknowledge and confirm meetings and invitations to workshops on behalf of
the SMS members of the Chief Directorate. Provide inputs to the compilation
of agendas, initiating the taking of minutes for the Chief Directorate, and follow
up on outstanding commitments from stakeholders; and administer all duties
with utmost discretion in the execution of confidential matters and converse
with clients in utmost diplomacy. Stakeholder Relations and Engagement:
Engage internal clients on the coordination and enhancement of the integration
of dual processes for execution within the unit. Attend to clients’ needs,
address concerns and complaints timeously, to improve relations with
stakeholders, and obtain their trust; and Analyse quotations for the attainment
of the most effective and efficient procurement of goods and services and
advise accordingly. Budget Co-ordination: Assist and prepare relevant
documentation on the consolidated budgetary inputs in compliance with the
MTEF requirements and cycle. Monitor expenditure against commitments and
sensitise on possible overspending. Coordinate and process mobile data
claims every month. Initiate the movement of funds between items after
consultation with relevant stakeholders and compile relevant papers for
execution.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
125
ANNEXURE R
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026
NOTE : Other related documentation such as copies of qualifications, identity
documents, driver’s license etc need not to accompany the application when
applying for a post as such documentation must only be produced by
shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA circular 19 of
2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or occupational
registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be completed as
these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or disclose all
required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No late
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Candidates will be required to complete a financial
disclosure form and undergo security clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship
holders must provide a police clearance certificate from country of origin (only
when shortlisted). The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a
Public Water Resource Management Agency, established in line with the
provisions of the National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and
National Water Policy for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department
of Water and Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar
employment terms and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms
of the Public Service Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service
Act. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months of this advertisement,
please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications
will not be considered. The agency reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Targets.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/156 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
LOCMA 17 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 (National Diploma) or NQF level 7 (Bachelor’s Degree) in
Human Resource Management or a related field. A minimum of 5 years’
experience in human resource management, including supervisory
experience. Knowledge of policy development and implementation. Knowledge
of HR transactions and related processes. Have a working knowledge of
disciplinary processes in HR transactions. Understanding of Government
legislation. Knowledge of Financial Management and the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge of techniques and procedures for the
planning and execution of operations. Knowledge of Programme and Project
Management. Knowledge of relationship management. Problem solving and
analysis. People and Diversity Management. Client Orientation and Customer
Focus. Good communication skills. Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
Knowledge of analytical procedures and analytical skills.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for the effective management of the total
human resource function for LOCMA. Implement HR policies and strategies
and ensure compliance with HR policies for all employees. Address payroll and
salary-related matters. Apply prescripts for staff transfers and inter-
departmental movement. Oversee the Performance Management and
Development System (PMDS) measures. Regularly analyse trends and
126
recommend policy updates and amendments. Manage service benefits and
conditions and implement HR transactions within the delegated framework.
Advise managers on transaction processes. Administer employment equity
and employee wellness programmes. Manage the development and
submission of legislative requirement reports and plans. Facilitate HR-related
training for staff. Manage recruitment, selection and general HR provisions by
developing and implementing recruitment and PMDS plans. Conduct
roadshows to communicate key HR policies. Maintain and administer an HR
database and provide accessible HR-related information services. Monitor and
evaluate the implementation of all HR policies and ensure that employees are
appointed as per HR prescripts. Evaluate the implementation of the HR
information policy in the CMA and measure compliance in terms of HR
information processes and service level agreements (SLAs) with other
stakeholders. Facilitate effective labour relations management, including
grievance handling, disciplinary processes and resolution of disputes. Manage
personnel records by maintaining updated HR records while ensuring
confidentiality, implementing safeguards against loss or theft, and keeping
clear tracking of file movements. Supervise and support staff, set work goals
and monitor progress, and organise training and career development. Ensure
compliance with HR policies and labour laws. Manage staff leave, attendance
and performance appraisals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.A Lessing Tel No: (013) 591-8900
POST 25/157 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: LOCMA 18
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 (Bachelor’s Degree) in Labour Relations, Labour Law, Human
Resource Management or a related field. A minimum of 5 years’ experience in
labour relations. Knowledge of the Public Service Act. Knowledge of the Labour
Relations Act. Knowledge of Public Administration. Problem solving and
analysis. Good communication skills. Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for promoting labour peace and a
harmonious working environment for LOCMA. Manage disciplinary cases by
investigating and presiding over disciplinary matters, representing the
employer in disciplinary cases, and facilitating the appeal process. Manage the
grievance process by investigating grievances, making recommendations,
reporting on grievances, and managing the grievance process to ensure fair,
impartial and unbiased resolutions. Coordinate the dispute resolution process
by seeking mandates, preparing case information, preparing relevant
witnesses and gathering information, representing LOCMA in conciliation and
arbitration processes, drafting closing arguments, drafting opposing
applications and objections, facilitating the implementation of awards,
attending to in-limine proceedings, and facilitating review and rescission
applications of arbitration awards. Promote labour relations services by
researching and developing training material, delivering in-house training and
workshops, providing updates on new procedures, legislation and policy, and
determining training needs to address trends. Manage the unit, including
performance management, training and development, discipline management,
resource allocation, case management, general correspondence and routine
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.A Lessing Tel No: (013) 591-8900
POST 25/158 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER REF NO: LOCMA 19 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA in Human
Resources. A minimum of 1 year’s experience in human resource
administration. Knowledge of the Public Service Act and Public Service
Regulations. Knowledge of administrative procedures. Knowledge of basic
financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS, etc.). Basic financial
management and knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
127
Disciplinary knowledge of Human Resources. Knowledge of the dispute
resolution process. Knowledge of recruitment and selection processes.
Knowledge management. Problem solving and analysis. People and Diversity
Management. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Good communication
skills. Accountability and Ethical Conduct. Attention to detail.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for rendering human resource administration
services for LOCMA. Implement human resource policies and procedures by
measuring compliance, providing training and advice on HR policy and
procedure, continuously monitoring the interpretation and implementation of
policies and DPSA directives, and providing input in the alignment of LOCMA
policies with DPSA and the Public Service Regulations. Facilitate the
implementation and maintenance of human resource administration and
provisioning, including recruitment and selection, appointments, transfers,
verification of qualifications, secretariat functions at interviews and
absorptions, implementation of conditions of service and service benefits
(leave, housing, medical, injury on duty, long service recognition, overtime,
relocation, pension and allowances), and termination of service, and prepare
reports on human resource administration issues and statistics. Provide human
resource information services and records management services by
implementing personnel information correctly on the system, keeping statistics
of HR administration activities, preparing and consolidating reports on
personnel administration issues, providing guidance on HR administration
matters, keeping the PERSAL report up to date, and compiling monthly reports.
Provide support on human resource administration enquiries by rendering
policy advisory services based on legislative mandates, providing feedback on
identified administrative gaps, and assisting in the implementation of approved
resolutions. Implement the Performance Management and Development
System (PMDS) by assisting in analysing the alignment of individual
performance agreements with the business plan, keeping records of individual
performance agreements, providing support in the implementation of PMDS
decisions, and supplying statistics on PMDS issues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.A Lessing Tel No: (013) 591-8900
POST 25/159 : INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY TECHNICIAN REF NO: LOCMA 23 (X3
POSTS)
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Information Technology
SALARY R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Polokwane, Tshwane Area, Hartbeespoort
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification. Certification as a Microsoft Certified
Engineer (MCSE) or Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA). CompTIA
A+ certification or CompTIA Network+ certification. A minimum of 3 years’
experience in Information Technology. Knowledge of customer and personal
service principles, including customer needs assessment, meeting quality
standards for services and evaluation of customer satisfaction. Knowledge of
the Promotion of Access to Information Act. Knowledge of information security
protocols. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Knowledge of information technology developments and enhancements.
Knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures and systems.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for providing information technology
systems and technology to users for LOCMA. Install new hardware and
software acquired by conducting client needs analysis, equipment and
software analysis, physical inspection of equipment for visible defects and
testing of equipment, connecting peripherals to their stations including driver
installation, providing the necessary training in the operational use of
equipment, and rolling out new software on computer equipment. Maintain
existing hardware and software by following up on logged complaints,
investigating the cause of failure and rectifying where possible, resolving
warranty issues where equipment falls within this category, and advising clients
on the future use or replacement of equipment and software. Configure
hardware and software by investigating calls for reconfigured hardware and
software, analysing client needs, investigating equipment and software
capabilities, reconfiguring hardware and software to meet clients’ new needs
where possible, and advising on alternative, more appropriate solutions where
configuration cannot meet the needs. Decommission hardware and software
by receiving equipment to be removed from the system, permanently removing
128
all data from equipment with memory capabilities, following Supply Chain
Management disposal procedures, and updating the hardware and software
assets register.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.A Lessing Tel No: (013) 591-8900
POST 25/160 : HR CLERK (SUPERVISOR) REF NO: LOCMA 20
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate or equivalent. A minimum of 3 to 5 years’ experience in
human resource administration. Knowledge of human resources functions and
practices, including the ability to capture data, operate a computer and collate
administrative statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of Human Resources
prescripts. Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS,
LOGIS, etc.). Knowledge of registry duties and practices. Working knowledge
and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Computer literacy.
Planning and organising. People and Diversity Management. Client Orientation
and Customer Focus. Good verbal and written communication skills.
Accountability and Ethical Conduct. Interpersonal relations, flexibility and
teamwork. Basic knowledge of problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for supervising and rendering human
resource clerical services for LOCMA. Implement human resource
administration practices, including HR provisioning (recruitment and selection,
appointments, transfers, verification of qualifications, secretariat functions at
interviews, absorptions and probationary periods). Implement conditions of
service and service benefits (leave, housing, medical, injury on duty, long
service recognition, overtime, relocation, pension and allowances). Implement
termination of service. Recommend transactions on PERSAL according to
delegations, with final authorisation effected at a higher level (preferably at
Assistant Director or higher). Support performance management and prepare
reports on human resource administration issues and statistics. Address
human resource administration enquiries by liaising with internal and external
stakeholders in relation to recruitment and selection, implementing termination
of services, implementing appointments on the HR system, keeping filing
records up to date, and keeping and maintaining the asset register of the
component. Supervise human resources staff by allocating work and ensuring
quality, supporting personnel development, assessing staff performance, and
applying discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.A Lessing Tel No: (013) 591-8900
POST 25/161 : EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS PRACTITIONER REF NO: LOCMA
21
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 6 qualification in Occupational Health and
Safety/Social Work/Human Resource Management (with wellness
focus)/Psychology (support level). A minimum of 3 years’ experience in an
Employee Health and Wellness environment. Knowledge of policy
implementation. Knowledge of monitoring and evaluation principles.
Knowledge of Employee Wellness Programme design, including principles and
practices for designing and implementing workplace wellness initiatives.
Understanding of health and wellness policies, including regulatory compliance
(e.g. OHSA and EHWP guidelines). Knowledge of public health and
occupational health principles. Understanding of key health issues (e.g. mental
health, chronic illness and substance abuse) in the workplace. Programme
coordination and facilitation. Planning and organising. Problem solving skills.
Creativity and awareness. Cultural awareness. Initiative. Computer skills.
Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for coordinating the employee wellness
programme in LOCMA. Implement employee wellness programmes, policies
129
and strategies by initiating the day-to-day running of the wellness programme,
rolling out health and wellness activities such as wellness days and health
screenings, coordinating logistics for wellness events in collaboration with
service providers, promoting participation through communication campaigns,
and monitoring programme participation and effectiveness. Support the
implementation of chronic disease programmes by conducting health
education sessions on chronic illness management, distributing educational
materials and referring employees to counselling and testing services, and
tracking participation in awareness campaigns and outreach initiatives.
Coordinate health and wellness awareness activities by organising awareness
sessions, distributing educational materials during awareness events,
coordinating schedules and venues for campaigns and workshops, and
gathering participant feedback to improve future activities. Coordinate the
sports and recreational programme by coordinating internal sports events and
recreational activities, maintaining schedules, equipment and participation
records, communicating upcoming events to employees, and gathering
feedback to improve future sporting initiatives. Execute administrative duties
related to the wellness programme, including administering the scheduling and
execution of mobile clinic services and other wellness activities, creating and
maintaining records and databases of wellness programme activities,
participants and outcomes, maintaining attendance registers and
documentation, maintaining organised filing and record-keeping systems, and
compiling monthly wellness statistics for internal reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.A Lessing Tel No: (013) 591-8900
POST 25/162 : HR CLERK PRODUCTION REF NO: LOCMA 22 (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate or equivalent. No experience required. Knowledge of
human resources functions and practices, including the ability to capture data,
operate a computer and collate administrative statistics. Basic knowledge and
insight of Human Resources prescripts. Knowledge of basic financial operating
systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS, etc.). Knowledge of registry duties and
practices. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures
in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the work in registry.
Computer literacy. Planning and organising. People and Diversity
Management. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Accountability and Ethical Conduct. Flexibility and
teamwork. Basic knowledge of problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for rendering human resource clerical
services for LOCMA. Implement human resource administration practices,
including recruitment and selection (advertisements, appointments, transfers,
verification of qualifications, secretariat functions at interviews, absorptions
and probationary periods). Implement conditions of service and service
benefits (leave, housing, medical, injury on duty, long service recognition,
overtime, relocation, pension, allowances and PILIR). Implement termination
of service. Support performance management. Address human resource
administration enquiries by liaising with internal and external stakeholders in
relation to recruitment and selection, implementing termination of services,
implementing appointments on the HR system, keeping filing records up to
date, and keeping and maintaining the asset register of the component.
Provide human resource registry services by keeping the filing system of HR
personnel updated, ensuring that personal files of employees are issued to
relevant managers on request, ensuring that files are received back as per HR
policies, and compiling reports on the movement of personnel files.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.A Lessing Tel No: (013) 591-8900
130
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: EASTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted as follows: via the provincial e-recruitment
system accessible at: https://ecprov.gov.za and/or at
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za. The Provincial e-Recruitment System is
available 24/7 and closes at 23: 59 on the Closing Date. To report any e-
Recruitment System challenges send an email with your (i) ID Number, (ii)
profile email address, (iii) details of your issue to:
erecruitment@agriculture.gov.za
Do not send any applications to this email address; should you do so, your
applications/ CV will be regarded as lost and will not be considered. Technical
support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-Thursday and 08:00-
16:00 on Friday). Hand-delivered/ E-Mailed/ Faxed/ Posted applications will
not be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026. No late applications will be accepted
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed New Z83 form (effective
from 01 January 2021), e-Recruitment System automatically generates Z83
immediately you press apply and generate Z83. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents upon application
but must submit a fully completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB:
Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not signable; so, applicants who
submitted applications via the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for
an unsigned Z83 instead will be requested to sign on/or before the interview
day. View the list of the positions you applied for on “My Job Applications” and
do note that the system Z83 does not reflect work experience and
qualifications, however, every detail of your information does reflect to the
Recruitment team. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents (like a copy of
Permanent Resident Permit for Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
Holders to HR on or before the interview date. Failure to submit all the required
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/ study verification and previous
employment verification). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
The Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic Managerial
Competency Assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of Competency-based Assessment. Successful candidates will
also be subjected to security clearance processes. Where applicable,
candidates will be subjected to a skills/ knowledge test. The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Successful candidates
will be appointed on a probation period of twelve 12/24 months. It is the
objective to address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line
with the Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation
across race and gender. The EE targets of the recruiting Department will be
adhered to although the applications are welcome from all racial groups. The
Recruiting Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw the
advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with Disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications). Misrepresentation in the application
documents will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the
event the candidate has already been appointed. SMS pre-entry certificate
(Nyukela) must be submitted prior appointment. Full details can be sourced by
following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programmeNote: Due to austerity measures, the Department will not carry any
related costs (transport, accommodation, and meals) for candidates attending
pre-selection assessment/s and interviews.
131
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/163 : SCIENTIFIC MANAGER (PRODUCTION) GRADE A (PASTURE SCIENCE)
REF NO: DOA/01/07/2026
SALARY : R1 143 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Dohne Research Station (Stutterheim)
REQUIREMENTS : MSc degree in Pasture Science or relevant qualification. 6 years post-
qualification natural scientific experience. Compulsory registration with the
South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions (SACNASP) as a
professional Natural Scientist. Technical Competencies: Scientific
methodologies and models. Research and development. Computer-aided
scientific applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Creating a high-performance culture. Professional judgment. Data analysis.
Policy development and analysis. Scientific presentation. Mentoring. Generic
competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Decision making. Team
leadership. Creativity. Financial management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer literacy (MS Office, MS Excel and
MS PPT). Networking. Planning, organising and execution. Conflict
management. People management. Change management. Problem-solving
and analysis. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Ensure the development and implementation of policies, systems and
procedures. Provide strategic leadership and direction. Lead, coordinate and
develop scientific models and regulatory frameworks. Research and
development. Financial management. People management. Governance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target for this position is Females.
POST 25/164 : SCIENTIFIC MANAGER (PRODUCTION) GRADE A (ANIMAL SCIENCE)
REF NO: DOA/02/07/2026
SALARY : R1 143 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Dohne Research Station (Stutterheim)
REQUIREMENTS : MSc degree in Animal Science or relevant qualification. Six (6) years post-
qualification natural scientific experience. Valid compulsory registration with the
South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions (SACNASP) as a
professional Natural Scientist. Programme and project management. Technical
Competencies: Scientific methodologies and models. Research and
development. Computer-aided scientific applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating a high-performance culture.
Professional judgment. Data analysis. Policy development and analysis.
Scientific presentation. Mentoring. Generic competencies: Strategic capability
and leadership. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer literacy (MS Office, MS Excel and MS PPT). Networking. Planning,
organising and execution. Conflict management. People management.
Change management. Problem-solving and analysis. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Ensure the development and implementation of policies, systems and
procedures. Provide strategic leadership and direction. Lead, coordinate and
develop scientific models and regulatory frameworks. Research and
development. Financial management. People management. Governance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Females.
POST 25/165 : SCIENTIST (PRODUCTION) GRADE A (SOIL) REF NO: DOA/03/07/2026
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Amathole District (EL)
REQUIREMENTS : BSc degree (Hon) (NQF 8) in Soil Science as recognized by SAQA. Valid
compulsory registration with the South African Council for Natural Scientific
Professions (SACNASP) as a professional Natural Scientist. Three (3) years
post-qualification natural scientific experience. Technical Competencies:
Programme and project management. Scientific methodologies and models.
Research and development. Computer-aided scientific applications.
132
Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Creating a high-
performance culture. Professional judgment. Data analysis. Policy
development and analysis. Scientific presentation. Recognized level of
expertise. Mentoring. Generic Competencies: Decision making. Team
leadership and teamwork. Analytical skills. Creativity. Financial management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Networking. Computer
literacy (MS Office, MS Excel and MS PPT). People management. Planning
and organising. Conflict management. Change management. Problem-solving
and analysis. Innovation. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems, and procedures. To
perform scientific analysis and regulatory functions. Research and
development. Human capital development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Youth, Females and People with Disabilities.
POST 25/166 : SCIENTIST (PRODUCTION) GRADE A (CROP SCIENCE, HORTICULTURE)
REF NO: DOA/04/07/2026
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Cradock, Barthurst, Dohne Research Station (Stutterheim)
REQUIREMENTS : BSc degree (Hon) (NQF 8) in Crop Science / Agronomy / Horticulture / Fruit
Science as recognized by SAQA. Valid compulsory registration with the South
African Council for Natural Scientific Professions (SACNASP) as a professional
Natural Scientist. Three (3) years post-qualification natural scientific
experience. Technical Competencies: Programme and project management.
Scientific methodologies and models. Research and development. Computer-
aided scientific applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report
writing. Creating a high-performance culture. Professional judgment. Data
analysis. Policy development and analysis. Scientific presentation. Recognized
level of expertise. Mentoring. Generic Competencies: Decision making. Team
leadership and teamwork. Analytical skills. Creativity. Financial management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Networking. Computer
literacy (MS Office, MS Excel and MS PPT). People management. Planning
and organising. Conflict management. Change management. Problem-solving
and analysis. Innovation. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems, and procedures. To
perform scientific analysis and regulatory functions. Research and
development. Human capital development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Youth, Females and People with Disabilities.
POST 25/167 : SCIENTIST (PRODUCTION) GRADE A REF NO: DOA/05/07/2026 (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Dohne Research Station (Stutterheim)
Aquaculture (X1 Post)
Fisheries (X1 Post)
Livestock Improvement (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : BSc degree (Hon) (NQF 8) in Aquaculture or Marine Science or Ichthyology or
Animal Science as recognized by SAQA. Valid compulsory registration with the
South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions (SACNASP) as a
professional Natural Scientist. Three (3) years post-qualification natural
scientific experience. Technical Competencies: Programme and project
management. Scientific methodologies and models. Research and
development. Computer-aided scientific applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating a high-performance culture.
Professional judgment. Data analysis. Policy development and analysis.
Scientific presentation. Recognized level of expertise. Mentoring. Generic
Competencies: Decision making. Team leadership and teamwork. Analytical
skills. Creativity. Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Networking. Computer literacy (MS Office, MS Excel and MS
PPT). People management. Planning and organising. Conflict management.
Change management. Problem-solving and analysis. Innovation. A valid
driver’s licence.
133
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems, and procedures. To
perform scientific analysis and regulatory functions. Research and
development. Human capital development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for these positions is Youth, Females and People with
Disabilities.
POST 25/168 : SCIENTIST (PRODUCTION) GRADE A REF NO: DOA/06/07/2026 (X6
POSTS)
(3 for Planted Pasture, 3 for Rangelands)
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRES : Cradock (X1 Post)
Barthurst (X1 Post)
Dohne Research Station (Stutterheim) (X2 Posts)
Adelaide (X1 Post)
Jansenville Research Station (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : BSc degree (Hon) (NQF 8) in Pasture Science or Agronomy or Crop Science
or Botany as recognized by SAQA. Valid compulsory registration with the South
African Council for Natural Scientific Professions (SACNASP) as a professional
Natural Scientist. Three (3) years post-qualification natural scientific
experience. Technical Competencies: Programme and project management.
Scientific methodologies and models. Research and development. Computer-
aided scientific applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report
writing. Creating a high-performance culture. Professional judgment. Data
analysis. Policy development and analysis. Scientific presentation. Recognized
level of expertise. Mentoring. Generic Competencies: Decision making. Team
leadership and teamwork. Analytical skills. Creativity. Financial management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Networking. Computer
literacy (MS Office, MS Excel and MS PPT). People management. Planning
and organising. Conflict management. Change management. Problem-solving
and analysis. Innovation. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems, and procedures. To
perform scientific analysis and regulatory functions. Research and
development. Human capital development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for these positions is Youth, Females and People with
Disabilities.
POST 25/169 : SCIENTIST (PRODUCTION) GRADE A (ANIMAL SCIENCE) REF NO:
DOA/07/07/2026
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Cradock Research Station
REQUIREMENTS : BSc degree (Hon) (NQF 8) in Animal Science as recognized by SAQA. Valid
compulsory registration with the South African Council for Natural Scientific
Professions (SACNASP) as a professional Natural Scientist. Three (3) years
post-qualification natural scientific experience. Technical Competencies:
Programme and project management. Scientific methodologies and models.
Research and development. Computer-aided scientific applications.
Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Creating a high-
performance culture. Professional judgment. Data analysis. Policy
development and analysis. Scientific presentation. Recognized level of
expertise. Mentoring. Generic Competencies: Decision making. Team
leadership and teamwork. Analytical skills. Creativity. Financial management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Networking. Computer
literacy (MS Office, MS Excel and MS PPT). People management. Planning
and organising. Conflict management. Change management. Problem-solving
and analysis. Innovation. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems, and procedures.
Perform scientific analysis and regulatory functions. Research and
development. Human capital development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Youth, Females and People with Disabilities.
134
POST 25/170 : SCIENTIST (PRODUCTION) GRADE A (CROP SCIENCE) REF NO:
DOA/08/07/2026
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Dohne Research Station (Stutterheim)
REQUIREMENTS : BSc degree (Hon) (NQF 8) in Crop Science or Agronomy as recognized by
SAQA. Valid compulsory registration with the South African Council for Natural
Scientific Professions (SACNASP) as a professional Natural Scientist. Three
(3) years post-qualification natural scientific experience. Technical
Competencies: Programme and project management. Scientific
methodologies and models. Research and development. Computer-aided
scientific applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Creating a high-performance culture. Professional judgment. Data analysis.
Policy development and analysis. Scientific presentation. Recognized level of
expertise. Mentoring. Generic Competencies: Decision making. Team
leadership and teamwork. Analytical skills. Creativity. Financial management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Networking. Computer
literacy (MS Office, MS Excel and MS PPT). People management. Planning
and organising. Conflict management. Change management. Problem-solving
and analysis. Innovation. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems, and procedures. To
perform scientific analysis and regulatory functions. Research and
development. Human capital development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Youth, Females and People with Disabilities.
POST 25/171 : SCIENTIST (PRODUCTION) GRADE A (PLANT PATHOLOGY) REF NO:
DOA/09/07/2026
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Dohne Research Station (Stutterheim)
REQUIREMENTS : BSc degree (Hon) (NQF 8) in Plant Pathology as recognized by SAQA. Valid
compulsory registration with the South African Council for Natural Scientific
Professions (SACNASP) as a professional Natural Scientist. Three (3) years
post-qualification natural scientific experience. Technical Competencies:
Programme and project management. Scientific methodologies and models.
Research and development. Computer-aided scientific applications.
Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Creating a high-
performance culture. Professional judgment. Data analysis. Policy
development and analysis. Scientific presentation. Recognized level of
expertise. Mentoring. Generic Competencies: Decision making. Team
leadership and teamwork. Analytical skills. Creativity. Financial management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Networking. Computer
literacy (MS Office, MS Excel and MS PPT). People management. Planning
and organising. Conflict management. Change management. Problem-solving
and analysis. Innovation. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems, and procedures.
Perform scientific analysis and regulatory functions. Research and
development. Human capital development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Youth, Females and People with Disabilities.
POST 25/172 : GISC PROFESSIONAL (PRODUCTION) GRADE A (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office Ref No: DoA/10/07/2026
Amathole District (EL) Ref No: DoA/11/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : 4-year qualification in GISc (NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA. Three (3)
years post-qualification GISc professional experience. Valid compulsory
registration with the South African Council for Professional and Technical
Surveyors (PLATO) as a GISc Professional. Technical Competencies:
Programme and project management. GISc, legal and operational compliance.
GISc Implementation. Standards development. Policy formulation. GISc
operational communication. Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills
135
and knowledge. Mobile equipment operating skills. Systems skills. Spatial
modelling design and analysis knowledge. Research and development. GISc
applications. Creating high performance culture. Technical consulting.
Professional judgment. Accountability. Proficiency in GIS software (e.g.,
ArcGIS, QGIS). Geo-database design, programming/scripting, web mapping
services. Spatial analysis, modelling, remote sensing, and data visualization.
Generic Competencies: Strategic management and direction. Problem-solving
and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical skills. Creativity.
Self-management. Financial management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication and listening skills. Computer skills.
Delegation and development of others. Planning, organising and execution.
Ability to manage conflict. Language proficiency. Knowledge management.
Negotiation skills. Change management. Training ability. Knowledge of
relevant legislation (e.g., Geomatics Profession Act). Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Plan, develop, coordinate, and execute GISc projects and activities aligned
with the department’s strategic objectives. Perform advanced spatial analysis,
spatial modelling, and geo-statistical analysis to identify patterns, trends, and
support decision-making. Design, develop, and maintain geospatial databases,
geodatabases, and digital libraries, including metadata management and
ensuring data quality. Facilitate data collection, capture, integration, and
conversion from various sources and formats. Produce maps, visualizations,
and reports including custom mapping, web-based GIS services, and data
products for stakeholders. Develop and implement GIS standards, policies,
interoperability, and best practices. Provide GIS support and training to end-
users, including developing training manuals and promoting knowledge
sharing. Research and innovate develop new methods/technologies for spatial
problems, evaluate new GIS tools, and conduct cost-benefit analyses. Ensure
compliance with legal, operational, and data governance requirements (e.g.,
spatial data standards, protection of information). Project management
including stakeholder management, documentation of processes, and
supporting audits or system requirements. Collaborate across teams to
integrate GIS into broader systems. Common focus areas from surveys of the
South African GISc community: Data analysis/interpretation, data acquisition,
data management, and visualization/mapping.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for these positions is Youth, Females and People with
Disabilities.
POST 25/173 : CONTROL SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION) GRADE A –
(PASTURE SCIENCE) REF NO: DOA/12/07/2026
SALARY : R610 131 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Dohne Research Station (Stutterheim)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma (NQF 6) in Pasture Science or Agronomy. Six (6) years post-
qualification technical (scientific) experience in the agricultural or scientific
sector. Compulsory registration with SACNASP as a Certificated Natural
Scientist. Technical Competencies: Programme and project management.
Scientific methodologies and models. Research and development. Computer-
aided scientific applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report
writing. Creating high performance culture. Professional judgment. Data
analysis. Policy development and analysis. Scientific presentation. Recognized
level of expertise. Generic Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership.
Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical skills. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer literacy. Planning and organising. Networking. Conflict
management. People management. Change management. Problem-solving
and analysis. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Oversee, develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and
procedures. Provide strategic leadership on technical and scientific matters.
Lead the coordination and development of databases, procedures and
regulatory frameworks. Manage Research and development. Manage human
capital development. Procurement for the Sub - Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Youth, Females and People with Disabilities.
136
POST 25/174 : CONTROL SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION) GRADE A –
(ANIMAL SCIENCE) REF NO: DOA/13/07/2026
SALARY : R610 131 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Dohne Research Station (Stutterheim)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma (NQF 6) in Animal Science or Animal Nutrition. Six (6) years post-
qualification technical (scientific) experience within the Agricultural Sector or
Animal research environment. Compulsory registration with SACNASP as a
Certificated Natural Scientist. Technical Competencies: Programme and
project management. Scientific methodologies and models. Research and
development. Computer-aided scientific applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture.
Professional judgment. Data analysis. Policy development and analysis.
Scientific presentation. Recognized level of expertise. Generic Competencies:
Strategic capability and leadership. Decision making. Team leadership.
Analytical skills. Creativity. Financial management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer literacy. Planning and organising.
Networking. Conflict management. People management. Change
management. Problem-solving and analysis. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Oversee, develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and
procedures. Provide strategic leadership on technical scientific matters. Lead
the coordination and development of databases, procedures and regulatory
frameworks. Manage Research and development. Manage human capital
development. Procurement for the Sub - Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Youth, Females and People with Disabilities.
POST 25/175 : SENIOR AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR (X24 POSTS)
(3-years fixed term contract)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Amathole: Ref No: DoA/14/07/2026 (X8 Posts)
Dikeni (X2 Posts)
Ngqushwa (X1 Post)
Adelaide (X1 Post)
Mdatsane (X1 Post)
Centane (X2 Posts)
Ngqamakhwe (X1 Post)
Alfred Nzo: Ref No: DoA/15/07/2026 (X7 Posts)
Bizana (X2 Posts)
Ntabankulu (X2 Posts)
Kwabaca (X1 Post)
Matatiele (X1 Post)
Sarah Baartman: Ref No: DoA/16/07/2026 (X3 Posts)
Sundays River (X1 Post)
Nelson Mandela Bay (X1 Post)
Blue Crane (X1 Post)
O.R Tambo: Ref No: DoA/17/07/2026 (X4 Posts)
Qumbu (X2 Posts)
Lusikisiki (X1 Post)
Ngqeleni (X1 Post)
Joe Gqabi: Ref No: DoA/18/07/2026 (X2 Posts)
District Office (X1 Post)
Walter Sisulu (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 8 qualification in Agriculture as recognized by SAQA. Valid
compulsory registration with SACNASP. At least 3 years of experience in the
field of Extension and Advisory Services. Knowledge of Agriculture Extension
Methodology and Project Planning. Planning and organizing skills. Change
management skills. Conflict management skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication skills, presentation skills and interpersonal
skills. Proficiency in the MS Office Suite (Word, PowerPoint, and Excel). A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of all strategic agricultural and rural
development programs. Render scientific and technical agricultural extension
services to internal and external clients. Coordinate support and development
of research and training activities. Ensure service delivery through appropriate
137
utilization of ICT tools/ systems. Comply with corporate governance and
planning imperatives. Maintain high work standards through promotion of
teamwork in terms of quality/quantity and timeliness. Work with the supervisor
towards the promotion of sound working relations. Due to the seniority of the
position, be able to initiate technological innovations, promote stakeholder
engagement and be able to transfer knowledge to their peers and promote
sustainable production principles. Responsible for providing reports of their
work to supervisors, whether weekly, monthly, quarterly and annually as
required. Keep abreast of applicable prescripts, policies, procedures,
technologies and new developments to be able to render an efficient and
effective Extension Service. Be able to work with teams towards management
of departmental assets (laptops, cellphones, vehicles, etc.)
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066,
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
POST 25/176 : AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR (X77 POSTS)
(3-years fixed term contract)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Amathole: Ref No: DoA/19/07/2026 (X8 Posts)
Kwamaqoma (X1 Post)
Elliotdale (X2 Posts)
Zwelitsha (X1 Post)
Balfour (X1 Post)
Centane (X2 Posts)
Ngqamakhwe (X1 Post)
Alfred Nzo: Ref No: DoA/20/07/2026 (X13 Posts)
Matatiele (X5 Posts)
Ntabankulu (X2 Posts)
Kwabahca (X1 Post)
Bizana (X3 Posts)
Emaxesibeni (X2 Posts)
Sarah Baartman: Ref No: DoA/21/07/2026 (X15 Posts)
Sundays River (X1 Post)
Nelson Mandela Bay (X1 Post)
Makana (X2 Posts)
Ndlambe (X2 Posts)
Kouga (X2 Posts)
Koukamma (X2 Posts)
Blue Crane (X2 Posts)
Dr Bayers Naude (X3 Posts)
O.R Tambo: Ref No: DoA/22/07/2026 (X20 Posts)
Qumbu (X5 Posts)
Lusikisiki (X4 Posts)
Mqanduli (X1 Post)
Umthatha (X2 Posts)
Ngqeleni (X2 Posts)
Libode (1 Post)
PSJ (X2 Posts)
Tsolo (X1 Post)
Flagstaff (X2 Posts)
Chris Hani: Ref No: DoA/23/07/2026 (X8 Posts)
Ngcobo (X5 Posts)
Cofimvaba (X1 post)
Whittlesea (X1 Post)
Cacadu (X1 Post)
Joe Gqabi: Ref No: DoA/24/07/2026 (X13 Posts)
District Office (X2 Posts)
Senqu (X4 Posts)
Elundini & 2 Walter Sisulu (X5 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 8 qualification in Agriculture as recognized by SAQA. Valid
compulsory registration with SACNASP. Self-Management, People
Management, Change Management, Conflict Management, Customer focus
and Responsiveness, Planning and organizing, Communication, Presentation
and Interpersonal skills. Computer literate. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Performs an operational technical role for the Department related to Agriculture
Development. Give practical advice to farmers. Coordination of agricultural
138
activities. Transfer of farming skills by focusing on individual households,
farms, feedlots and abattoirs. Undertake newly assigned activities under the
guidance of senior staff members. Network with key players in the industry
such as suppliers, government entities, NGO’s and research, commodity
organizations, and institutions of higher learning, towards supporting farmers.
Responsible for providing reports of their work to supervisors, whether weekly,
monthly, quarterly and annually as required. Keep abreast of applicable
prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new developments to be
able to render an efficient and effective Extension Service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
POST 25/177 : LAND SURVEY TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION) GRADE A (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R407 337 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District Ref No: DoA/25/07/2026
Chris Hani District Ref No: DoA/26/07/2026
Alfred Nzo District Ref No: DoA/27/07/2026
Sarah Bartmaan District Ref No: DoA/28/07/2026
Amathole District Ref No: DoA/29/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Survey or Cartography or relevant qualification.
Valid compulsory registration with the South African Council for Professional
and Technical Surveyors (PLATO) / South African Geomatics Council (SAGC)
as a Survey Technician/Surveyor. Three (3) years’ post-qualification technical
(Survey) experience. Technical Competencies: Programme and project
management. Survey design and analysis knowledge. Research and
development. Computer-aided survey applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating a high-performance culture.
Generic Competencies: Decision-making skills. Team leadership skills.
Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-management skills. Financial management
skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication (verbal and
written) skills. Computer literacy. Planning and organizing skills. Conflict
management skills. Problem-solving and analysis skills. People management
skills. Innovation skills. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide technical survey services and support in terms of examination,
maintenance, archiving and information supply of survey documents and
submit for evaluation/approval by the relevant authority. Perform surveys and
survey computations. Promote safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Evaluate plans, existing technical manuals, standard drawings
and procedures to incorporate new technology and provide GIS, mapping and
information supply services. Perform administrative and related functions.
Provide inputs into the budgeting process as required. Compile and submit
reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical survey
operational plan. Develop, implement and maintain databases and supervise
and control candidate survey technicians/officers and related personnel and
assets. Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on technical survey
technology or new survey techniques to improve expertise and liaise with
relevant bodies/councils on survey-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Youth.
POST 25/178 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIANS GRADE A (PASTURE) REF NO:
DOA/30/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R407 337 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Cradock, Dohne (Stutterheim), Adelaide Research Station
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Pasture or Agronomy or Botany as recognized by
SAQA. Valid compulsory registration with SACNASP as a Certificated Natural
Scientist. Three (3) years’ post-qualification technical (scientific) experience.
Knowledge of planted pasture / veld management / ecology / botany /
agronomy is beneficial. Ensure compliance with safety protocols and
compliance. Maintain a clean and organized work environment. Technical
Competencies: Programme and project management. Scientific
methodologies. Research and development. Computer-aided scientific
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Creating
139
a high-performance culture. Professional judgment. Data analysis. Mentoring.
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel and MS PPT). Generic Competencies:
Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-
management. Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Computer literacy. Networking. People management.
Planning and organising. Conflict management. Change management.
Problem-solving and analysis. A valid Driver’s License.
DUTIES : To provide technical support for research, assessment, evaluation,
development, innovation and protection to ensure the sustainability of
resources and contribute towards a knowledge economy. Develop and
implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures. Provide
technical support and advice. Perform technical scientific analysis and
regulatory functions. Research and development. Human capital development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Youth.
POST 25/179 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION) GRADE A: ANALYTICAL
SERVICES REF NO: DOA/31/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R407 337 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Dohne Research Station (Stutterheim)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Chemistry or Soil Science as recognized by
SAQA. Valid compulsory registration with SACNASP as a Certificated Natural
Scientist. Three (3) years’ post-qualification technical (scientific) experience.
Knowledge of the soils, water, feed, essential oils and plant material analyses;
Relevant understanding of the functioning of Laboratory equipment. Technical
Competencies: Programme and project management. Scientific
methodologies. Research and development. Computer-aided scientific
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Creating
a high-performance culture. Professional judgment. Data analysis. Mentoring.
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel and MS PPT). Generic Competencies:
Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-
management. Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Computer literacy. Networking. People management.
Planning and organising. Conflict management. Change management.
Problem-solving and analysis. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Analytical analysis of samples (soils, water, feed, essential oils and plant
material) and responding timeously to our clients; Assist in the development of
new analytical procedures. To perform technical scientific analysis and
regulatory functions. Research and development. Human capital development.
Supervise, mentor and guide Laboratory Assistants; Keep up to date with
regard to the applicable regulations, prescripts, policies, procedures,
technologies and new developments to be able to render an efficient and
effective service to our clients.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Youth.
POST 25/180 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION) GRADE A (PLANT & CROP)
REF NO: DOA/32/07/2026 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R407 337 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Dohne Research Station (Stutterheim) (X2 Posts)
Bathurst Research Station (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Crop Science or Agronomy or Horticulture or
Entomology as recognized by SAQA. Valid compulsory registration with
SACNASP as a Certificated Natural Scientist. Three (3) years’ post-
qualification technical (scientific) experience. Technical Competencies:
Programme and project management. Scientific methodologies. Research and
development. Computer-aided scientific applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating a high-performance culture.
Professional judgment. Data analysis. Mentoring. Computer literacy (MS Word,
MS Excel and MS PPT). Generic Competencies: Decision making. Team
leadership. Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-management. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer literacy. Networking. People management. Planning and organising.
140
Conflict management. Change management. Problem-solving and analysis.
Knowledge of horticulture / plant physiology / medicinal plants / plant pathology
/ plant pest / agronomy is beneficial. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To provide technical support for research, assessment, evaluation,
development, innovation and protection to ensure the sustainability of
resources and contribute towards a knowledge economy. Develop and
implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures. Provide
technical support and advice. perform technical scientific analysis and
regulatory functions. Research and development. Human capital development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066,
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Youth.
POST 25/181 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION) GRADE A – (ANIMAL SCIENCE)
REF NO: DOA/33/07/2026 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R407 337 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Dohne (Stutterheim) (X2 Posts)
Cradock (X1 Post)
Jansenville Research Station (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Animal Science as recognized by SAQA. Valid
compulsory registration with SACNASP as a Certificated Natural Scientist.
Three (3) years’ post-qualification technical (scientific) experience. Technical
Competencies: Programme and project management. Scientific
methodologies. Research and development. Computer-aided scientific
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Creating
a high-performance culture. Professional judgment. Data analysis. Mentoring.
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel and MS PPT). Generic Competencies:
Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-
management. Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Computer literacy. Networking. People management.
Planning and organising. Conflict management. Change management.
Problem-solving and analysis. Knowledge of Small Stock and Large Stock
production systems. A valid driving licence.
DUTIES : To provide technical support for research, assessment, evaluation,
development, innovation and protection to ensure the sustainability of
resources and contribute towards a knowledge economy. Develop and
implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures. Provide
technical support and advice. perform technical scientific analysis and
regulatory functions. Research and development. Human capital development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Youth.
POST 25/182 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION) GRADE A: AQUACULTURE,
FISHERIES & LIVESTOCK REF NO: DOA/34/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R407 337 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Dohne Research Station (Stutterheim)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Aquaculture or Marine Biology or Ichthyology, or
Zoology as recognized by SAQA. Valid compulsory registration with SACNASP
as a Certificated Natural Scientist. Three (3) years’ post-qualification technical
(scientific) experience. Technical Competencies: Programme and project
management. Scientific methodologies. Research and development.
Computer-aided scientific applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Creating a high-performance culture. Professional
judgment. Data analysis. Mentoring. Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel
and MS PPT). Generic Competencies: Decision making. Team leadership.
Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-management. Financial management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer literacy.
Networking. People management. Planning and organising. Conflict
management. Change management. Problem-solving and analysis. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Conduct field surveys to monitor water quality. Measure critical metrics (e.g.,
pH, oxygen, salinity, temperature, nutrients) across land- and sea-based
aquaculture sites. Evaluate field conditions, oversee feedlot management,
evaluate breeding programs, and handle animal housing or pasture science
141
workflows. Run biochemical analyses (such as spectrophotometric analysis of
water nutrients). Manage day-to-day operations of water quality or animal
science laboratories. Maintain, calibrate, and ensure the safety compliance of
specialized scientific equipment. Input field experimental data into national
biological and agricultural databases. Process statistical analyses to track
environmental impact or animal reproduction metrics. Enforce regulatory
policies and complete technical inspections to ensure compliance with
biosecurity or animal ethics standards. Compile detailed technical reports,
research proposals, and scientific summaries. Provide advisory scientific data
and tech support to local farmers, fishing operations, and sector stakeholders.
Train and supervise intern technicians, junior candidate scientists, and student
groups within research centres.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N. Mabanga Tel No: (040) 602 5066
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries: erecruitment@drdar.gov.za
NOTE : The EE Target for this position is Youth.
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS AND TOURISM
DEDEAT in the Eastern Cape is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted as follows: via the provincial e-recruitment
system accessible at: https://ecprov.gov.za and/or at
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za. The Provincial e-Recruitment System is
available 24/7 and closes at 23: 59 on the Closing Date. To report any e-
Recruitment System challenges send an email with your (i) ID Number, (ii)
profile email address, (iii) details of your issue to: Recruitment@dedea.gov.za.
Do not send any applications to this email address; should you do so, your
applications/ CV will be regarded as lost and will not be considered. Technical
support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-Thursday and 08:00-
16:00 on Friday). Hand-delivered/ E-Mailed/ Faxed/ Posted applications will
not be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026. No late applications will be accepted
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed New Z83 form (effective
from 01 January 2021), e-Recruitment System automatically generates Z83
immediately you press apply and generate Z83. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents upon application
but must submit a fully completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB:
Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not signable; so, applicants who
submitted applications via the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for
an unsigned Z83 instead will be requested to sign on/or before the interview
day. View the list of the positions you applied for on “My Job Applications” and
do note that the system Z83 does not reflect work experience and
qualifications, however, every detail of your information does reflect to the
Recruitment team. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents (like a copy of
Permanent Resident Permit for Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
Holders to HR on or before the interview date. Failure to submit all the required
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/ study verification and previous
employment verification). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Successful candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes.
Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a skills/ knowledge test. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation period of
twelve 12/24 months. It is the objective to address the Employment Equity
Affirmative Action Measures in line with the Employment Equity Plan and to
achieve equitable representation across race and gender. The EE targets of
the recruiting Department will be adhered to although the applications are
142
welcome from all racial groups. The Recruiting Department reserves the right
to amend/ review/ withdraw the advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest
of the department will be well served. (Females and People with Disabilities
are also requested to apply and indicate such in their applications).
Misrepresentation in the application documents will result in automatic
disqualification and disciplinary action in the event the candidate has already
been appointed. SMS pre-entry certificate (Nyukela) must be submitted prior
appointment. Full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/183 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: CLIMATE CHANGE
REF NO: DEDEAT/2026/07/01
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R636 978 – R728 646 per annum, (OSD). An appropriate salary will be
determined according to the regulatory framework (based on OSD).
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate plus a 4-year degree/ NQF Level 8 or equivalent
qualification in Natural Sciences/ Environmental Management/ Nature
Conservation/Environmental Law/ Spatial Planning/ Urban and Regional
Planning and related. 6 years post- qualification experience. A valid driver’s
licence is required. The following skills, knowledge, and attributes are required:
Knowledge of Relevant legislation and frameworks (National Environmental
Management Act, Climate Change Act, NEMBA, Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, PFMA and Treasury Regulations), Policy development
processes and implementation, and Climate change mitigation and adaptation
issues, including South Africa’s Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emission profile, Just
Transition policy priorities, and energy transition frameworks. Skills and
competencies: Well-developed communication and reporting skills, Strong
planning, coordination, and project management skills, Financial and
budgeting knowledge, including technical and financial reporting, Good
interpersonal relations, ability to work independently and in a team, ability to
work under pressure, and Computer literacy. Added advantage: Experience in
integrating climate change considerations into municipal planning and
development frameworks.
DUTIES : Provide and coordinate integrated climate change management planning and
development practices. Develop and maintain integrated climate change
management policy, legislation and regulations. Coordinate the
implementation of climate change management-related policies and
regulations, monitor, evaluate and report on the impact thereof. Develop and
maintain an integrated climate change information management system.
Perform and manage administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: Indian Female
POST 25/184 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALISED PRODUCTION: COASTAL
ZONE MANAGEMENT REF NO: DEDEAT/2026/07/02
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R518 769 – R717 846 per annum, (OSD). Appropriate salary will be
determined according to the regulatory framework.
CENTRE : Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate Plus a 4-year degree/ NQF Level 8 or equivalent
qualification in Natural Sciences/ Environmental Management/ Nature
Conservation /Environmental Law and or related. No Experience as per OSD
requirements, however 1-2 years’ experience will be an added advantage A
valid driver’s licence is required. The following skills, Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, PFMA, Relevant Coastal Management Legislation and
prescripts applicable to the Eastern Cape, Sea Shore Act, computer literacy
and skills; Good writing and communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide specialised technical support for the development and implementation
and coordination of integrated coastal management planning instruments and
governance initiatives. Provide specialised technical support for the
development, review and implementation of the appropriate coastal
143
management policy, legislation, regulations and related regulatory instruments.
Provide technical support with the implementation of coastal management
related policies and regulations, monitor, evaluate and report on the impact of
the coastal management policies and instruments. Provide technical support
with the development and maintenance of an integrated coastal information
management system. Perform and manage administrative and related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Target: Coloured Female
POST 25/185 : ACCOUNTING CLERK (X2 POSTS)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Amathole District Ref No: DEDEAT/2026/07/58
Joe Gqabi District Ref No: DEDEAT/2026/07/59
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12 (NQF level 4). 1-2 years relevant
experience will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license. The following
skills, knowledge and attributes are required: Public Service Act, Treasury
Regulations, PFMA, Public Service Regulation Communication, Computer
Literacy, Financial management, Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Render of financial services Administer the revenue/expenditure process
Reconciliation of expenditure / revenue Perform and manage administrative
and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O. Desi at 078 026 7383 / Mr. P. Makhele at 078 801 5909
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@dedea.gov.za
NOTE : Employment Equity Targets:
Amathole District: Coloured Female
Joe Gqabi District: Indian Male/Person with Disabilities
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted as follows using one of the following options to
the specific centre: 1. Via the provincial e-recruitment system accessible at:
https://ecprov.gov.za and/or at https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za. The
Provincial e-Recruitment System is available 24/7 and closes at 23: 59 on the
Closing Date. To report any e-Recruitment System challenges send an email
with your (i) ID Number, (ii) profile email address, (iii) details of your issue to:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za. Do not send any applications to this
email address; should you do so, your applications/ CV will be regarded as lost
and will not be considered. Technical support is limited to working hours:
(08:00-16:30 Mon-Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Friday).
Alfred Nzo District Office: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Alfred Nzo District Office, 81 Murray Street, Kokstad, 4700. Enquiries: Mr K
Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070.
Greenville Hospital: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Greenville Hospital, Greenville Location, Bizana, 4800, Enquiries: Mr Z
Madikizela Tel No: (039) 251 3009.
Mt Ayliff Hospital: Hand deliver/courier to: HR Office, Mt Ayliff Hospital, 8
Insizwe Street, Mount Ayliff, 4735. Enquires: Mrs O Mjoka Tel No: (039) 254
0236.
Sipetu Hospital: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Sipetu
Hospital, Isilindini, Tabankulu, 5090. Enquiries: Ms L Mahlathi Tel No: (039)
255 0077.
Khotsong TB Hospital: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Khotsong TB Hospital, 100 Jagger Street, Matatiele, 4730 Enquiries: Ms Z
Pinyane Tel No: (039) 737 3801
Taylor Bequest Hospital (Matatiele): Hand deliver/courier to: Human
Resource Office, Taylor Bequest Hospital, 01 Main Street, Matatiele, 4730.
Enquiries: Mr S Kholiso Tel No: (039) 737 3107.
Madzikane Ka Zulu Hospital: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Madzikane ka Zulu Hospital, N2, Mount Frere, 5900. Enquiries: Ms N
Mkhayi Tel No: (039) 255 8200/11/12.
Olivier & Adelaide Hospital: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
St Patricks Hospital, Hospital Street, Bizana 4800. Enquiries: Ms O Gxaweni
Tel No: (039) 251 0236.
144
Winnie Madikizela Mandela Sub District: Hand deliver/courier to: Human
Resource Office, Winnie Madikizela Sub- District, Hospital Road, Bizana, 4800.
Enquiries: Mr L Bhekiswayo Tel No: (039) 451 8200
Ntabankulu Sub District: Hand deliver/courier to: Post: Human Resource
Office, Ntabankulu CHC, Nompukane Street, Ntabankulu, 5130. Enquiries: Ms
W Lugongolo Tel No: (039) 258 0953
Maluti Sub District: Hand deliver/courier to: HR Office, Ex Maluti College of
Education, Magistrate Street, Maluti, 4740 Enquiries: Mrs R Kok Tel No: (039)
256 0140 Email: rene.kok@echealth.gov.za
Mt Ayliff Sub District: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Alfred
Nzo District Office, 81 Murray Street, Kokstad, 4700. Enquiries: Ms L Zonyane
Tel No: (039) 797 6015. Email Linda.zonyane@echealth.gov.za
Mt Frere Sub District: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Umzimvubu Sub–District Office, Thobile Bam Office Park, Dabula Street, Mt
Frere, 5090. Enquiries: Mr D Gamedala Tel No: (039) 797 6005
Amathole District Office: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Amathole Health District, 19 St James Road, Medical Centre Building,
Southernwood, East London, 5200. Enquiries: Ms S Njokweni Tel No: (043)
707 6748.
Tower Psychiatric Hospital: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Tower Psychiatric Hospital, 16 Somerset Street, Fort Beaufort, 5720. Enquiries:
Mr M Mapuka Tel No: (046) 645 5008.
Buffalo City Metro District Office: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Buffalo City Metro District Office, Old Building BKB, No 79 Fitzpatrick
Road, Quigney, East London 5200. Enquires: Ms S Magoloti Tel No: (043) 708
1720.
Forensic Pathology Services (Buffalo City Metro): Hand deliver/courier to:
Human Resource Office, Buffalo City Metro District Office, Old Building BKB,
No 79 Fitzpatrick Road, Quigney, East London, 5200. Enquires: Ms S
Mangoloti Tel No: (043) 708 1720.
Cecilia Makiwane Regional Hospital: Hand deliver/courier to: Human
Resource Office, Cecilia Makiwane Hospital, 4 Billie Road, Mdantsane, 5219
Enquiries: Ms N. Matshaya Tel No: (043) 708 2121.
Frere Tertiary Hospital: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Frere Tertiary Hospital, Amalinda Main Road, East London, 5200. Enquiries:
Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532.
Chris Hani District Office: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Chris Hani District Office, Ward F, Queenstown, 5320. Enquires: Mr S Magxiva
Tel No: (045) 839 2133
Forensic Pathology Services (Chris Hani): Hand deliver/courier to: Human
Resource Office, Chris Hani District Office, Ward F, Queenstown, 5320.
Enquires: Mr S Magxiva Tel No: (045) 839 2133
Intsika Yethu Sub-District Office: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource,
Intsika Yethu Sub-District Office, 201 Main Street, Cofimvaba, 5380. Enquiries:
Ms A Mabentsela Tel No: (047) 874 0079.
Sakhisizwe Sub-District - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Sakhisizwe Sub-District, Arthur Tsengiwe Building, Queenstown Road, Cala
5455. Enquiries: Ms B Mtsi Tel No: (047)8770931.
Engcobo Sub-District - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office (Old
Maternity Ward), All Saints Hospital, All Saints Mission Road, Engcobo, 5050.
Enquiries: Ms N. Matala Tel No: (047) 5480022/34/0723558144
Enoch Mgijima Sub-District – Hand deliver/courier to: Hand deliver/courier
to: Human Resource Office, Enoch Mgijima Sub District Private Bag x1, Room
07, 1st Floor, Komani Psychiatric Hospital Queenstown 5320. Enquiries: Ms
Mtweni Tel No: (045) 807 8908/8909/8910
Emalahleni Sub District – Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resources Office,
Emahlahleni Sub District Office, 4 Ndarala Road, Lady Frere 5410. Enquiries:
Ms N Katiya Tel No: (047) 878 2800
Inxuba Yethembu Sub District: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Inxuba Yethembu Sub District Office, Nurses Home, Hospital Road,
Cradock, 5880. Enquiries: Ms A Opperman Tel No: (048) 881 2921
All Saints Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, All
Saints Hospital, All Saints Mission Road, Engcobo 5050. Enquiries: Ms NP
Gcaza – Tel No: (047) 548 4104
Cala Hospital: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Cala Hospital,
Drully Lane Street, Cala, 5455. Enquires: Ms Z Mpangele – Tel No: (047) 877
0237
145
Elliot Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Elliot
Hospital, Maclear Road, Elliot, 5460. Enquiries: Ms Z Dunga Tel No: (045)
9311321
Wilhelm Stahl Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office
Wilhelm Stahl Hospital, 104 Du Plessis Street, Middleburg, 5900. Enquiries:
Mr. B Mbalula Tel No: (049) 842 1111.
Hewu Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Hewu
Hospital, Main Road, Ekuphumleni Township, Whittlesea, 5630. Enquiries: Mr
X Kolwapi Tel No: (040) 841 0754
Cradock Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Cradock
Hospital, 30 Hospitaal Street, Cradock, 5880. Enquiries: Ms Danster Tel No:
(048) 881 2123.
Molteno Hospital – Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Molteno
Hospital, Stuart Street, Molteno 5880. Enquiries: Mr. L Tsengiwe Tel No: (045)
967 0089.
Glen Grey Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Glen
Grey Hospital, Indwe Road, Lady Frere, 5410. Enquiries: Ms N Ralushe Tel
No: (047) 878 2800.
Mjanyana Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Mjanyana Hospital, R408, Idutywa, 5000. Enquiries: Ms SS Naku Tel No: (047)
874 8000.
Sterkstroom Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Sterkstroom Hospital, 18 Legrage Str. Sterkstoom Hospital, Sterkstroom.
Enquiries: Mrs. CM Swart Tel No: (045) 966 0268.
Cofimvaba Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Cofimvaba Hospital, Private Bag X1207. Cofimvaba 5380. Enquiries: Ms N
Somlota Tel No: (047) 874 8000
Dordrecht Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Dordrecht Hospital, 1 Grey Street, Dordrecht Hospital, Dordrecht 5435.
Enquiries Ms Tshiwula Tel No: (045) 943 1195.
Martje Venter Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Tarkstard, No1 Margarete, Tarkastard, 5370. Enquiries: Dr M Zaula Tel No:
(045) 846 0041
Indwe Hospital – Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Indwe
Hospital P.O. Box 5 Indwe 5445: Enquiries: Mr C Gouws Tel No: (045) 952
1030
Frontier Regional Hospital – Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Frontier Regional Hospital, Corner Kingsway & Livingstone Road,
Queenstown, 5320. Enquiries: Mr T Soxujwa Tel No: (045) 808 4225
Komani Psychiatric Hospital – Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Komani Psychiatric Hospital, 1833 National Road Queenstown 5320:
Enquiries: Ms N Mzola Tel No: (045) 858 8400.
Joe Gqabi District Office - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Joe Gqabi District Office, 32 Dan Pienaar Street, Hot springs, Aliwal North
9750. Enquiries: Mr. J.S Ndzinde – Tel No: (051) 633 9631.
Maletswai Sub-District - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Maletswai Sub-District, Aliwal North Hospital, No 1 Parklane Avenue, Aliwal
North, 9750. Enquiries: Mr. J.S Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9617.
Elundini Sub–District - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, P
Bag X1129, Elundini Sub–District Office, Police Street, Mount Fletcher, 4770.
Enquiries: Mr JZ Ndzinde – Tel no: Mr. J.S Ndzinde – Tel No: (051) 633 9631
Senqu Sub-District - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Sengu
Sub-district, Bensonvale College, Sterkspruit, 9762. Enquiries: Mr. J.S Ndzinde
Tel No: (051) 633 9617/0781161958.
Cloete Joubert Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Cloete Joubert Hospital, 1 Voortrekker Road, Barkly East, 9786. Enquiries: Mr.
Z.O Mgeyi Tel No: (045) 971 0091
Maclear Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Maclear
Hospital, No 1 Fourie Street, Maclear, 5480. Enquiries: Ms C Aucamp Tel No:
(045) 932 1028.
Taylor Bequest Hospital (Mt Fletcher): Hand deliver/courier to: Human
Resource Office, Taylor Bequest Hospital (Mount Fletcher), Police Street,
Mount Fletcher, 4770. Enquiries:Mr J Ndzinde Tel No: (039) 257 0099.
Aliwal North Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Aliwal North Hospital, Private Bag X1004, Aliwal North 9757 or hand delivery:
HR Office, Aliwal North Hospital, No 1 Parklane Street, Aliwal North. Enquiries:
Mr V Mona- Tel No: (051) 633 7700.
146
Burgersdorp Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Burgersdorp Hospital, Daantjie Van Den Heever Street, Burgersdorp, 9744.
Enquiries: Ms N Zondi - Tel No: (051) 653 1881
Empilisweni Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Empilisweni Hospital, Umlamli Road, Sterkspruit, 9762. Enquiries: Mr J Fonya
Tel No: (051) 611 0037
Umlamli Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Umlamli
Hospital, Hoita Village, Sterkspruit, 9762. Enquiries: Mr J Ndzinde Tel No: (051)
611 0079/90/051 633 9617
Lady Grey Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Lady
Grey Hospital, Bekker Street, Lady Grey Hospital, 9755. Enquiries: Ms N
Skisazana – Tel No: (051) 603 0093/0115.
St Francis Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, St
Francis Hospital, Dukathole Bantu Street, Aliwal North, 9750. Enquiries: Mr J
Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 2741
Jamestown Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Jamestown Hospital, 3 Hill Street, Jamestown, 9742. Enquiries: Mr J Ndzinde
Tel No: (051) 633 9617.
Steynsburg Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Steynsburg Hospital, 1 Henning Street, Steynsburg Hospital, 5920. Enquiries:
Mr J Ndzinde – Tel No: (048) 884 0241/051 633 9617
Lililtha Nursing College - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Room 41/2, Lilitha Nursing College of Nursing, Lennox Road, Amalinda, East
London, 5201. Enquiries: Ms P Mene Tel No: (043) 700 9717/26.
Nelson Mandela Metro Office – Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Nelson Mandela Health District Office, (Old Walton Building)
Conyngham Street, Parson Hill, Gqeberha, 6057. Enquiries: Ms A Tsoko Tel
No: (041) 391 8190.
Forensic Pathology Services (Nelson Mandela Metro) – Hand deliver/courier
to: Human Resource Office, Nelson Mandela Health District Office, (Old Walton
Building) Conyngham Street, Parson Hill, Gqeberha, 6057. Enquiries: Ms A
Tsoko Tel No: (041) 391 8190.
Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care - Hand deliver/courier to: Human
Resource Office, Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care (Next to Dora
Nginza Hospital), Spondo Street, Zwide, Port Elizabeth,6006. Enquiries: Mr K
Plaatjie Tel No: (041) 453 0911.
Livingstone Tertiary Hospital – Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Nurses Home, 2nd Floor, Standford and Korsten Road, Gqeberha,
5201. Enquiries: Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348
Dora Nginza Regional Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Room DG71, Admin Building 1st Floor, Dora Nginza Regional Hospital,
Spondo Street, Zwide, Gqeberha, 6201. Enquiries: Ms B Bomela Tel No: (041)
406 4421.
Uitenhage Provincial Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: HR Office,
Uitenhage Provincial Hospital, 36 Channer Street, Levyvale, Uitenhage 6229.
Enquiries: Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 995 1129.
Jose Pearson TB Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Jose Pearson TB Hospital, Mission Road, Bethelsdorp, Gqeberha, 6015.
Enquiries: Ms Z Bushula Tel No: (041) 372 8001.
Elizabeth Donkin Hospital – Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Elizabeth Donkin Hospital, 1 La Roche Drive, Elizabeth Donkin Hospital,
Walmer, Gqeberha, 6001. Enquiries: Mr. E Felkers Tel No: (041) 585 2323.
Empilweni Hospital – Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Empiliweni Hospital, 01 Mati Road, New Brighton, Gqeberha, 6200. Enquiries:
Ms K Sinyahla Tel No: (041) 406 7627.
OR Tambo District Office - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
OR Tambo Health District Office, 70 Blackway Street, Mthatha, 5099.
Enquiries: Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000.
Forensic Pathology Services (OR Tambo District) - Hand deliver/courier to:
Human Resource Office, OR Tambo Health District Office, 70 Blackway Street,
Mthatha, 5099. Enquiries: Ms Z Mtimba Tel No: (047) 502 9000.
Mthatha Pharmaceutical Depot – Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Mthatha Pharmaceutical Depot (Next to Nelson Mandela Academic
Hospital), 71 Nelson Mandela Drive, Mthatha 5099. Enquiries: Mr M Diko Tel
No: (047) 531 1076/047 532 2779.
147
Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital – Hand deliver/courier to: Human
Resource Office, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital, 71 Nelson Mandela
Drive, Mthatha 5099. Enquiries: Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469.
Mthatha Regional Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: HR Office, Mthatha
Regional Hospital, 71 Nelson Mandela Hospital, Mthatha, 5099. Enquiries: Mr
M Shabane Tel No: (047) 502 4143/4008.
St Elizabeth Regional Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, St Elizabeth Regional Hospital, R61 Street, Lusikisiki, 4820. Enquiries:
Mr M Langa – Tel No: (039) 253 5012.
Sarah Baartman District Office - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Sarah Baartman Health District, No 66 Ring Road Road, Fairview Office
Park, Greenacres, Gqeberha 6057. Enquiries: Ms T Sompontsha at 071 867
8865.
Fort England Psychiatric Hospital – Hand delivery/courier to: Human
Resource Office, Fort England Psychiatric Hospital, York Street, Grahamstown,
6140. Enquiries: Ms X Nazo Tel No: (046) 602 2300.
Sunday’s Valley Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Sunday’s Valley Hospital, 2 Whytesweg, Kirkwood. 6120. Enquiries: Mr T.
Fekema Tel No: (042) 2300 406/432/567.
Andries Vosloo Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Andries Vosloo Hospital, Hospital Road, Somerset East, 6057. Enquires: Ms
CZ Zozo – Tel No: (042) 243 1313
Willowmore Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Willowmore Hospital, 25 Knysna Street, Willowmore, 6445. Enquiries: Ms R
Schutte Tel No: (044) 923 1127
Humansdorp Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office
(Admin Block), Humansdorp Hospital, 1 Du Plessis Street Humansdorp
Hospital (Next to Nico Malan High School), Humansdorp, 6300. Enquires: Ms
G Kivedo Tel No: (042) 200 4279/236.
BJ Vorster Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, BJ
Voster Hospital, Kron N Baaken Street, Kareedouw, 6400. Enquiries: Ms G
Sikiwe Tel No: (042) 288 0210
Settlers Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Settlers
Hospital, Milner Street, Cradock Heights, Grahamstown 6140. Enquires: Ms Z
Kondile Tel No: (046) 602 5046.
Aberdeen Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Aberdeen Hospital, 35 Hope Street, Aberdeen, 6270. Enquiries: Ms T
Sompontsha Tel No: (049) 846 0391.
Margery Parkes TB Hospital and Camdeboo Sub-District - Hand
deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Margery Parkes Hospital, 63A Bree
Street, Graaf-Reinet, 6280. Enquiries: Mr. MT Buyiselo Tel No: (049) 893 0031
Midland Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Midland
Hospital, 1 Albertyn Street, Graaf-Reinet, Midland Hospital, Graaf-Reinet.
Enquiries: Ms N Magwaxaza Tel No: (049) 807 7739
Port Alfred Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office, Port
Alfred Hospital, Southwell Road, Port Alfred, 6170. Enquiries: Ms N Raco Tel
no: 046 604 4000.
PZ Meyer TB Hospital – Hand deliver/courier to: HR Office, Humansdorp
Hospital, Johnston Street, Humansdorp, 6300. Enquiries: Dr P Mboya- Majola
Tel No: (042) 291 2072
Jansenville (SAWAS) Hospital- Hand deliver/courier to: Jansenville Hospital,
College Street Jansenville 6265. Enquiries: Mr T Marenene Tel No: (049) -836
0588 /049-836 0086
Makana Sub- District - Hand deliver/courier to Makana Sub District 49
Beaufort Street Grahamstown 6140. Enquiries: Ms N Fulani Tel No: (046) 622
49015
Kouga Sub District - Post to: Human Resource Office (Admin Block),
Humansdorp Hospital, 1 Du Plessis Street Humansdorp Hospital (Next to Nico
Malan High School), Humansdorp, 6300. Enquires Ms L Fillis Tel No: (042) 200
4214
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026. No late applications will be accepted.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed New Z83 form (effective
from 01 January 2021), e-Recruitment System automatically generates Z83
immediately you press apply and generate Z83. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents upon application
but must submit a fully completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB:
Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not signable; so, applicants who
148
submitted applications via the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for
an unsigned Z83 instead will be requested to sign on/or before the interview
day. View the list of the positions you applied for on “My Job Applications” and
do note that the system Z83 does not reflect work experience and
qualifications, however, every detail of your information does reflect to the
Recruitment team. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents (like a copy of
Permanent Resident Permit for Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
Holders to HR on or before the interview date. Failure to submit all the required
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/ study verification and previous
employment verification). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
The Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic Managerial
Competency Assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of Competency-based Assessment. Successful candidates will
also be subjected to security clearance processes. Where applicable,
candidates will be subjected to a skills/ knowledge test. The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Successful candidates
will be appointed on a probation period of twelve 12/24 months. It is the
objective to address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line
with the Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation
across race and gender. The EE targets of the recruiting Department will be
adhered to although the applications are welcome from all racial groups. The
Recruiting Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw the
advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with Disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications). Misrepresentation in the application
documents will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the
event the candidate has already been appointed. SMS pre-entry certificate
(Nyukela) must be submitted prior appointment. Full details can be sourced by
following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme Note: Due to austerity measures, the Department will not carry any
related costs (transport, accommodation, and meals) for candidates attending
pre-selection assessment/s and interviews
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/186 : MECHANICAL ENGINEER: PLANNING DIRECTORATE REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ME-PD/HO/HFRG/01/07A/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 - R 975 582 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R 1 030 296 - R1 109 925 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R1 172 184 - R1 376 199 per annum, (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Degree in Mechanical Engineering (B Eng/BSC
(Eng) or relevant qualification coupled with three (3) years’ post qualification
experience. Compulsory registration with ECSA as Professional Engineer
(Mechanical). A valid Driver’s licence. Computer literate.
DUTIES : To provide inputs to technical and functional norms and standards from an
engineering perspective to be issued in terms of the Provincial Health Facilities
Guidelines. Monitor that infrastructure projects implemented by Implementing
Agent(s) comply with approved engineering functional and technical norms and
standards and that the planning and design are according to sound engineering
principles and code of practice. Update functional and technical norms and
standards updated based on learning generated through Post Project and Post
Occupancy Evaluation (POE) exercises. Prepare reports stating the
advisability, desirability, impact and legality of proposals for innovative service
delivery mechanisms. Undertake feasibility studies and prepare reports
detailing service impact, financial impact, infrastructure impact, constraints,
149
alternatives and attainability. Develop cost effective solutions according to
standards. Prepare technical specifications. Apply mechanical design
principles. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology in specifications. Undertake
preliminary costing per installation. Develop mechanical engineering standard
data sheets and drawings. Provide mechanical engineering inputs to Project
Execution Plan v.1. Prepare reports on mechanical engineering investigations.
Determine mechanical engineering proposals and design work for solutions
where necessary. Provide mechanical engineering professional and technical
advice in the form of verbal and written advice reports, calculations,
specifications and drawings. Monitor and study the health sector, legal
frameworks, standards changes and policy frameworks. Engage in relevant
continuous professional development activities (tools and techniques) as
prescribed and /or required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1188
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/187 : MECHANICAL ENGINEER: ENGINEERING & TECHNICAL SERVICES REF
NO: ECHEALTH/ME-ETS/HO/HFRG/01/07B/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 - R975 582 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R1 030 296 - R1 109 925 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R1 172 184 - R1 376 199 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Degree in Mechanical Engineering (B Eng/BSC
(Eng) or relevant qualification coupled with three (3) years’ post qualification
experience. Compulsory registration with ECSA as Professional Engineer
(Mechanical). A valid Driver’s licence. Computer literate
DUTIES : To perform final review and approvals of audits on new engineering designs
according to design principles or theory. Research the needs of the relevant
health institutions. Co-ordinate designs efforts and integration across
disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current technology. Pioneering
of new engineering services and management methods. Manage the execution
of maintenance strategy through the provision of appropriate structures,
systems and resources. Set engineering maintenance standards,
specifications and service levels according to organizational objectives to
ensure optimum operational availability. Allocate, control, monitor and repot on
all resources. Compile risks logs and manage significant risk according to
sound risk management practice and organizational requirements. Provide
technical consulting services for the operation on engineering related matters
to minimise possible engineering risks. Manage the operational capital project
portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to
organizational needs and objectives. Facilitate the compilation of innovation
proposals to ensure validity and adherence to organisational principles.
Continuous professional development to keep up with new technologies and
procedure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1188
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/188 : ELECTRICAL ENGINEER: INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING REF NO:
ECHEALTH/EE-IP /HO/HFRG/01/07C/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 - R975 582 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R1 030 296 - R1 109 925 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R1 172 184 - R1 376 199 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Degree in Mechanical Engineering (B Eng/BSC
(Eng) or relevant qualification coupled with three (3) years’ post qualification
experience. Compulsory registration with ECSA as Professional Engineer
(Mechanical). A valid Driver’s licence. Computer literate.
DUTIES : To provide inputs to technical and functional norms and standards from an
engineering perspective to be issued in terms of the Provincial Health Facilities
Guidelines. Monitor that infrastructure projects implemented by Implementing
150
Agent (s) comply with approved engineering functional and technical norms
and standards and that the planning and design are according to sound
engineering principles and code of practice. Update functional and technical
norms and standards updated based on learning generated through Post
Project and Post Occupancy Evaluation (POE) exercises. Prepare reports
stating the advisability, desirability, impact and legality of proposals for
innovative service delivery mechanisms. Undertake feasibility studies and
prepare reports detailing services impact, financial impact, infrastructure
impact, constraints, alternatives and attainability. Develop cost effective
solutions according to standards. Prepare technical specifications. Apply
electrical design principles. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology in specifications.
Undertake preliminary costing per installation. Prepare reports on electrical
engineering investigation. Determine electrical engineering proposals and
design work for solutions where necessary. Provide electrical engineering
inputs to implement projects successfully. Provide electrical engineering
professional and technical advice in the form of verbal and written advice,
reports calculations, specifications and drawings. Monitor and study the health
sector, legal framework, standards changes and policy frameworks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1188
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/189 : ELECTRICAL ENGINEER: ENGINEERING & TECHNICAL SERVICES REF
NO: ECHEALTH/EE-ETS/HO/HFRG/01/07D/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 - R975 582 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R 1 030 296 - R1 109 925 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R1 172 184 - R1 376 199 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Degree in Mechanical Engineering (B Eng/BSC
(Eng) or relevant qualification coupled with three (3) years’ post qualification
experience. Compulsory registration with ECSA as Professional Engineer
(Mechanical). A valid Driver’s licence. Computer literate
DUTIES : To provide inputs to technical and functional norms and standards from an
engineering perspective to be issued in terms of the Provincial Health Facilities
Guidelines. Monitor that infrastructure projects implemented by Implementing
Agent (s) comply with approved engineering functional and technical norms
and standards and that the planning and design are according to sound
engineering principles and code of practice. Update functional and technical
norms and standards updated based on learning generated through Post
Project and Post Occupancy Evaluation (POE) exercises. Prepare reports
stating the advisability, desirability, impact and legality of proposals for
innovative service delivery mechanisms. Undertake feasibility studies and
prepare reports detailing services impact, financial impact, infrastructure
impact, constraints, alternatives and attainability. Develop cost effective
solutions according to standards. Prepare technical specifications. Apply
electrical design principles. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology in specifications.
Undertake preliminary costing per installation. Prepare reports on electrical
engineering investigation. Determine electrical engineering proposals and
design work for solutions where necessary. Provide electrical engineering
inputs to implement projects successfully. Provide electrical engineering
professional and technical advice in the form of verbal and written advice,
reports calculations, specifications and drawings. Monitor and study the health
sector, legal framework, standards changes and policy frameworks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1188
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/190 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY
REF NO: ECHEALTH/CCPM-ID /HO/HFRG/01/07E/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 – R975 582 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R1 030 296 – R1 109 925 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
151
Grade C: R1 172 184 - R1 376 199 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, B Tech or Degree or Honours Degree or National
Higher Diploma in Built Environment. Registered as Construction Project
Manager with SACPCMP. A valid driver’s license. Computer literate. 3 Years’
experience post qualification except if National Higher Diploma – 4 years and
six months’ experience. If BTech – 4 years’ experience. If National Diploma –
6 Years experience.
DUTIES : Assist to prepare the Procurement Strategy, Infrastructure Programme
Management Plan (IPMP) and updating of the plan. Assist to prepare the
infrastructure budget and final project list. Assist to prepare the
packages/individual project briefs; presenting these to the Implementing Agent
(IA) referred to as Project Execution Plan v1 with all the inputs obtained from
the Directorate Infrastructure Planning. Assist to monitor the implementation of
programmes and projects by Implementing Agent (IA) and the adherence to
the Service Delivery Agreement. Assist to manage project implementation of
projects that are not allocated to an Implementing Agent (IA). Assist to review
Variation Orders in terms of contract management practice and financial
implications in collaboration with professionals in the Directorate Infrastructure
Planning. Assist to develop Project Stage reports & designs in accordance with
strategic decision-making points as defined in the Provincial Infrastructure
Delivery Framework. Coordinate and participate in project commissioning,
including site visits. Review and Maintenance Plans and budgets on
completion of projects. Assist to review infrastructure projects and programmes
in line with the built environment norms, standards and legislative
requirements. Assist to participate in the continuous improvement of best
practices, standardised process and procedures, software applications and
tools. Manage and participate in Post Project and Post Occupancy Evaluation
exercises. Study professional journals and publications to stay abreast of new
developments. Monitor and Study the Health Sector, legal frameworks and
standards. Engage relevant continuous professional development activities.
Update Infrastructure policies of the Department in terms of research findings,
new technology and changes in the institutional environment. Update the
Infrastructure policies of the Department in terms of research findings, new
technology and changes in the institutional environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1188
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/191 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR (INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ME-ETS/HO/HFRG/01/07F/2025
SALARY : Grade A: R791 157 – R849 525 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R900 957 - R961 167 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R1 015 071 - R1 189 767 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF level 7 in Quantity Surveying and/or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA coupled with three (3) years’
post qualification survey experience as a Quantity Surveyor. Compulsory
registration as Professional Quantity Surveyor with SACQSP. A valid drivers
licence. Computer literate.
DUTIES : To prepare the Procurement strategy, Infrastructure Programme Management
Plan (IPMP) and updating of the plan. Prepare the Infrastructure budget and
final project list. Prepare the packages/individual project briefs; presenting
these to the Implementing Agent (IA) referred to as Project Execution Plan v1
with all the inputs obtained from the Directorate Infrastructure Planning.
Participate in the procurement of Professional Service Providers and
Contractors, including the preparation and approval of Bid Specifications and
evaluations of tenders as member of the Supply Chain Management
Committees in Public Works and/ or relevant SCM Committees of Alternative
IAs and Provincial Department of Health. Monitor the implementation of
Programmes and Projects by the Implementing Agent (IA) and the adherence
to the Service Delivery Agreement. Manage project implementation of projects
that are not allocated to an Implementing Agent (IA). Review and sign off on
the Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan (IPIP) as prepared by the
Implementing Agent (IA). Review and recommend Variation Orders in terms of
152
contract management practice and financial implications in collaboration with
professionals in the Directorate Infrastructure Planning. Manage the updating
of project/programme documentation and information and submit all built
environment documentation to the Directorate Infrastructure Planning and the
financial documents to the Deputy Director Finance. Coordinate and participate
in project commissioning including site visits. Collect and update information
on systems in terms of Technical Condition Assessment on completion of
projects. Review Infrastructure Projects and programmes in line with the built
environment norms, standards and legislative requirements. Monitor and study
the health sector, legal frameworks standards changes and policy frameworks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1188
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/192 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR (INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/QS-IF /HO/HFRG/01/07G/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade A: R791 157 – R849 525 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade B: R900 957 - R961 167 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
Grade C: R1 015 071 - R1 189 767 per annum (OSD), an all-inclusive package
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, an NQF level 7 in Quantity Surveying and/or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA coupled with three (3) years’
post qualification survey experience as a Quantity Surveyor. Compulsory
registration as Professional Quantity Surveyor with SACQSP. A valid driver’s
licence. Computer literate.
DUTIES : To develop planning and cost norms and standards issued in terms of
Provincial Health Facilities Guidelines. Maintain planning and cost norms and
standards library. Monitor that Infrastructure projects implemented by
Implementing Agent (s) comply with approved planning and cost norms and
standards. Promote the adoption of technical and quality strategies. Review
cost determinations of projects and estimates submitted. Provide inputs from
quantity surveyor perspective to infrastructure policies, procedures, methods
and criteria for Capex, minor capital and scheduled maintenance projects,
Develop commissioning plans from a quantity surveyor perspective. Prepare
from a Quantity Surveyor perspective input to Project Briefing documents.
Prepare from a Quantity Surveyor perspective input to the Project Execution
Plan version 1. Develop cash flow projections. Develop costing models.
Provide inputs to the Annual Medium Term and Adjustment budgets to the
Directorate Infrastructure Delivery. Provide inputs to the User Asset
Management Plan from Quantity Surveyor perspective. Provide inputs to the
Infrastructure Programme Management Plan and Infrastructure Programme
Implementation Plan from the Quantity Surveyor perspective. Provide inputs
to the procurement strategy from a Quantity Surveyor perspective. Update the
Infrastructure comprehensive planning framework of Department in terms of
research findings, new technology and changes in the institutional
environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1188
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/193 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN: CIVIL (ENGINEERING & TECHNICAL
SERVICES DIRECTORATE) REF NO: ECHEALTH/ET-
EETS/HO/HFRG/01/07H/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R407 337 - R435 066 per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R460 086 – R492 729 per annum, (OSD)
Grade C: R518 769 - R610 131 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, A National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical) or
equivalent relevant qualifications (Mechanical) coupled with three (3) years
working experience post qualification as an Engineering Technician (Electrical).
Registration with ECSA as an Engineering Technician (Electrical). A valid
driver’s Licence. Computer literate.
153
DUTIES : To assist the Engineer with Technical activities. Promotes safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing maintenance
technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new
technology. Produce technical designs with specifications. Assist to manage
the execution of maintenance strategy through the provision of appropriate
structures systems and resources. Assist to set engineering maintenance and
standards, specifications and service levels according to organizational
objectives to ensure optimum operational availability. Design and establish a
system to collect credible data on the use of utilities by Health Facilities.
Provide training to Administrative Clerk on collection of data. Validate usage
and draft reports. Identify excessive usage. Assist to allocate, control, monitor
and report on all resources. Assist to compile risk logs and manage significant
risk according to sound risk management practice and organisational
requirements. Provide inputs into the budgeting process as require. Compile
and submit reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to technical
engineering operational plan. Continuous professional development to keep up
with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Gwarube Tel No: (040) 608 1188
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/194 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: ECHEALTH/SCM-
S/HO/ES/01/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bhisho, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA in Commerce / Supply Chain Management /Cost Management
Accounting / Logistics Public Administration/Public Management / Business
Management or any other related field/ with at least 1-2 years’ experience in a
procurement, asset management or logistics environment. Knowledge and
skills: Knowledge of Asset management and Logistics, Provisioning
administration, Procurement directives and procedures, Financial Accounting
and LOGIS System. In-depth knowledge of legislative framework that governs
the Public Service (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual).
Understanding and application of Public Financial Management Act and Supply
Chain Management Policies and Practices Skills: Good Interpersonal
Relations skills, Planning and organizing skills, Decision Making skills and
Problem-Solving skills. People Management skills, good verbal and written
communication skills, Computer Literate, Customer orientation and customer
focus and High attention to detail Responsibilities. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Supervise and render asset management clerical services: Oversee the
compilation and maintenance of records. Verify the issuing of equipment and
accessories to components and individuals in need. Identify redundant, non-
serviceable and obsolete equipment for disposal. Oversee the verification of
the asset register. Supervise and render demand and acquisition clerical
services: Update and maintain supplier (including contractors) database.
Ensure that suppliers are captured and registered on the system. Request and
receive quotations. Capture specification on the electronic purchasing system.
Ensure that all orders are placed on time. Issue and receive bid documents.
Provide secretariat or logistical support during the bid consideration and
contracts conclusions. Supervise and undertake logistical support services:
Check, place and verify orders for goods. Receive and verify goods from
suppliers. Capture and ensure that goods are captured in registers and
databases. Receive request for goods from end users. Issue goods to end
users. Check and maintain goods registers. Update and ensure the
maintenance of the register of suppliers. Supervise human resources/staff.
Allocate and ensure quality of work. Personnel development. Assess staff
performance. Apply discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Buza Tel No: (040) 608 9631
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
154
POST 25/195 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (SHARED CONTACT CENTRE) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/AO-SCC/HO/ES/01/07/2026
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Shared Contact Centre, East London
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA in Social Sciences/Contact Centre Operations Management or related
fields coupled with 1-2 years’ experience in Contact Centre environment.
Knowledge of public service regulation, mandate of Eastern Cape Department
of health as well as standard operating procedure of the Contact Centre
environment, Knowledge and skills on CRM and CCC interpersonal
communication skills. Computer literate. The candidate will be expected to
work shifts in Contact Centre renders a 24-hour service.
DUTIES : Supervising and meeting performance targets for speed, efficiency, and health
service promotions and quality for both Inbound and Outbound operations.
Supervise the daily operative running of the Shared Contact Centre liaising
with Contact Centre management team to gather information and resolve
conflicting operative issues. Monitoring random calls to improve quality.
Minimize errors and track operative performance. Reviewing the performance
of Contact Agents. Identifying training needs and planning on job training
sessions. Recording statistics, user rates and the performance levels of the
Contact Centre and preparing reports. Handling the most complex customer
complaints or enquiries. Organizing staffing, including shift patterns and the
number of staff required to meet demand (Call volumes and trends analysis).
Coaching, motivating and retaining staff and coordinating bonus, reward and
incentive schemes. Forecasting and analysing data against budget figures on
a weekly and/or monthly basis. Improving performance by raising efficiency
and sourcing new equipment to enable this, e.g. new dialling products.
Supervise contact centre agent as well logging of queries on CRM as defined
in the standard operating policy of the centre.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Z Ntlube Tel No: (043) 711 0699
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/196 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (STATUTORY HR & TRAINING GRANT) REF
NO: ECHEALTH/AO-S/NMAH/SHRTG/01/07/2026
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as recognized by
SAQA in Office Management/ Degree in Public Administration/Public
Management/ or equivalent qualification with at least 1- 2 years’ relevant
experience. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, the Public Service Act,
1994 (Act 103 of 1994) and other human resources prescripts, regulations,
procedures and understanding of different human resources, financial and
costing management processes. Basic knowledge of PERSAL, BAS, PFMA
and all relevant financial prescripts that are utilized by the Budget section.
Knowledge of administration functions, computer skill, Excell, communication
skill, sound interpersonal relations, ability to interpret human resource
prescripts and apply them. Ability to work well under pressure and be customer
focused. Administration officer will work under the supervision of the Clinical
Manager (NMAH), monitoring registrars and other Statutory Human Resource
Training and Development Grant programmes (Interns, Comm Serves, Nursing
Coordinator) at Nelson Mandela Academic and Mthatha Regional hospitals. A
valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Compliance to financial regulations, procurement policies & procedures. Assist
in the formulation of the SHR, Training and Development Business Plan.
Manage Registrar HR related processes and constantly monitor the budget
spending (e.g appointments, transfers, verification of qualifications and
Statutory Human Resource & Training Grant support visits). Requesting
expenditure report from PERSAL for proper monitoring of Statutory Human
Resource, Training and Development Grant related appointments. Developing
a monitoring spreadsheet of Medical registrars, Medical interns and/or
employees that are mis-allocated and paid under the Statutory Human
Resource & Training Grant budget. Work closely with the Registrar Academic
Coordinator, Registrar Training Administrator from the University (WSU), Head
of Departments from the facilities on registrar matters. Assist in registrar
registrations with the University and verification of qualifications. Update
155
registrar information and keep track of all registrar activities (passed, dropped
out, rotation, time expired, other sources of funding). Utilize an M&E
spreadsheet for monitoring of the MMED student’s progress as per the
milestones provided. Ensure G&S, Capital expenditure is aligned to the
procurement plan and as per the approved Business Plan. Observe and
comply with all departmental policies and guidelines regulating employment
relationship in administration functioning. Adhere to reporting times and
prepare monthly IYM and quarterly SHR & Training Grant reports. Attend to
mandatory support visits by the Grant and annual performance Monitoring and
Evaluation visits. Always ensure quality of work particularly with the Registrar
programme. Perform other duties as assigned by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/197 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (HEALTH PROFESSIONS TRAINING &
DEVELOPMENT) REF NO: ECHEALTH/AO-S/HO/SHPTD/01/07/2026
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office, Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6) or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA in Public Administration/Business
Administration/ Public Management/Office Administration/Human Resource
Management or equivalent qualification coupled with 1-2 years’ experience.
Knowledge of public administrative systems, processes and other human
resources prescripts, regulations, procedures. Knowledge of Public Service
Regulations, Policies and Procedures. Good interpersonal, communication
(verbal and written) computer skills and problem solving. Basic knowledge of
PERSAL system, ability to interpret human resource prescripts and apply them.
Ability to work well under pressure and be customer focused. Management of
skills development /training programme. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Assist in the formulation of the SHR Training and Development Business Plan
and WSP for skills development. Manage Registrar HR related processes (e.g
appointments, transfers, verification of qualifications and Statutory Human
Resource & Training Grant support visits). Utilise expenditure report from
PERSAL for proper monitoring of Statutory Human Resource, Training and
Development Grant related appointments. Monitor and report misallocation of
Medical registrars, Medical interns and Comserve under the Statutory Human
Resource & Training Grant budget. Update registrar information and keep track
of all registrar activities. Coordinate clinical training programmes for the
province, prepare all training logistics, and maintain accurate training records
and databases. Process training-related procurement activities. Support
evaluation processes by collecting and summarizing feedback. Manage
training by ensuring proper setup of the venue and logistics. Maintain inventory
of training materials. Observe and comply with all departmental policies and
guidelines regulating administration functioning. Adhere to reporting times and
quarterly SHR & Training Grant reports. Ensure quality of work at all times
particularly with statistics of training programmes. Perform other duties as
assigned by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Panyana Tel No: (043) 702 3621/3618
For e-Recruitment Enquiries:RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/198 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK REF NO: ECHEALTH/SCM/HO/ES/02/07/2026 (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bhisho, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/ NQF level 4 with no experience. One (1) year
Public service internship programme experience will be given preference.
Basic knowledge of supply chain duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Basic knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Basic
knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment.
Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (LOGIS). Computer Literacy,
156
Ability to maintain high level of confidentiality and be able to work under
pressure. Good communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Render asset management clerical support: Compile and maintain records (e.g
asset records/databases). Check and issue furniture, equipment and
accessories to components and individuals. Identify redundant, non-
serviceable and obsolete equipment for disposal. Verify asset register. Render
demand and acquisition clerical support. Update and maintain a supplier
(including contractors) database. Register suppliers on Logis or similar system.
Request and receive quotations. Capture specification on the electronic
purchasing system. Place orders. Issue and receive bid documents. Provide
secretariat or logistical support during the bid consideration and contracts
conclusion process. Compile draft documents as required. Render logistical
support services: Place orders for goods. Receive and verify goods from
suppliers. Capture goods in registers databases. Receive request for goods
from end users. Issue goods to end users. Maintain goods register. Update and
maintain register of suppliers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Buza Tel No: (040) 608 9631
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/199 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (PAIA CO-ORDINATION) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ADC-PAIA/MRH/ARP/ES/03/07/2026 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Mthatha Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, / NQF level 4 with no experience. Basic knowledge
of administrative processes. Computer Literacy. Good communication (verbal
and written) and report writing skills. Interpersonal relations, Report Writing,
Coordination, Ability to work under pressure Self-drive and motivation. One (1)
year Public service internship programme experience will be given preference.
Proficiency in Microsoft Office applications.
DUTIES : Receive all PAIA requests and coordination of all PAIA responses to head
office. Assist with the training of facilities within the hub on the management of
PAIA requests to ensure response within the stipulated period. Liaise with the
internal legal advisors to ensure that such requests are analysed and quality
checked before they are forwarded to the various requesters. Facilitate
response to requests by internal defence teams, e.g. Office of the State
Attorney, State Law Adviser, Legal Service Officials, etc. Facilitate monthly
reconciliation between requests received, responses and information captured
on the e-Liability system for reporting. Loading of all PAIA requests, documents
is support of the requests and all relevant records in the electronic system.
Management of records and submission of info to various institutions like
AGSA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Shabane Tel No: (047) 502 4143/4008
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/200 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (PAIA CO-ORDINATION) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ADC-PAIA/DORA/ARP/ES/04/07/2026 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Dora Nginza Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, / NQF level 4 with no experience. Basic knowledge
of administrative processes. Computer Literacy. Good communication (verbal
and written) and report writing skills. Interpersonal relations, Report Writing,
Coordination, Ability to work under pressure Self-drive and motivation. One (1)
year public service internship programme experience will be given preference.
Proficiency in Microsoft Office applications.
DUTIES : Receive all PAIA requests and coordination of all PAIA responses to head
office. Assist with the training of facilities within the hub on the management of
PAIA requests to ensure response within the stipulated period. Liaise with the
internal legal advisors to ensure that such requests are analysed and quality
checked before they are forwarded to the various requesters. Facilitate
response to requests by internal defence teams, e.g. Office of the State
Attorney, State Law Adviser, Legal Service Officials, etc. Facilitate monthly
157
reconciliation between requests received, responses and information captured
on the e-Liability system for reporting. Loading of all PAIA requests, documents
is support of the requests and all relevant records in the electronic system.
Management of records and submission of info to various institutions like
AGSA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Bomela Tel No: (041) 406 4421
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/201 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (PAIA CO-ORINDATION) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ADC-PAIA/FRH/ARP/ES/05/07/2026 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, / NQF level 4 with no experience. Basic knowledge
of administrative processes. Computer Literacy. Good communication (verbal
and written) and report writing skills. Interpersonal relations, Report Writing,
Coordination, Ability to work under pressure Self-drive and motivation. One (1)
year public service internship programme experience will be given preference.
Proficiency in Microsoft Office applications.
DUTIES : Receive all PAIA requests and coordination of all PAIA responses to head
office. Assist with the training of facilities within the hub on the management of
PAIA requests to ensure response within the stipulated period. Liaise with the
internal legal advisors to ensure that such requests are analysed and quality
checked before they are forwarded to the various requesters. Facilitate
response to requests by internal defence teams, e.g. Office of the State
Attorney, State Law Adviser, Legal Service Officials, etc. Facilitate monthly
reconciliation between requests received, responses and information captured
on the e-Liability system for reporting. Loading of all PAIA requests, documents
is support of the requests and all relevant records in the electronic system.
Management of records and submission of info to various institutions like
AGSA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/202 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (PAIA) REF NO: ECHEALTH/ADC-
PAIA/FRONTH/ARP/ES/06/07/2026 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Frontier Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, / NQF level 4 with no experience. Basic knowledge
of administrative processes. Computer Literacy. Good communication (verbal
and written) and report writing skills. Interpersonal relations, Report Writing,
Coordination, Ability to work under pressure Self-drive and motivation. One (1)
year public service internship programme experience will be given preference.
Proficiency in Microsoft Office applications.
DUTIES : Receive all PAIA requests and coordination of all PAIA responses to head
office. Assist with the training of facilities within the hub on the management of
PAIA requests to ensure response within the stipulated period. Liaise with the
internal legal advisors to ensure that such requests are analysed and quality
checked before they are forwarded to the various requesters. Facilitate
response to requests by internal defence teams, e.g. Office of the State
Attorney, State Law Adviser, Legal Service Officials, etc. Facilitate monthly
reconciliation between requests received, responses and information captured
on the e-Liability system for reporting. Loading of all PAIA requests, documents
is support of the requests and all relevant records in the electronic system.
Management of records and submission of info to various institutions like
AGSA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Soxujwa Tel No: (045) 808 4225
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
158
POST 25/203 : WARD ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO:
ECHEALTH/WAC/NMAH/NTSG-ON/07/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, / NQF level 4 with no experience. One (1) year
public service internship programme experience will be given preference.
Previous administration in a hospital environment will serve as an added
advantage. Basic knowledge of administration processes, Batho Pele principle
and Patients Right Charter A good understanding of general administration.
Understanding of confidentiality. Client Orient and customer focus. Written and
verbal communication. Report writing skills and time management. Computer
literacy in MS Office suits especially Word & Excel.
DUTIES : Provide ward administration services: Compile patient folders that contain the
relevant documentation. Record and reconcile the midnight patient census.
Account for admissions, discharges and transfers. Keep notice boards neat,
relevant and current. Capture statistical data. Monitor ward stock levels: Order
and receive ward supplies – stationery, surgical supplies, etc. Replace ward
stock condemned. Record movement of ward stock and supplies. Maintain
documents / files: Keep files neat and complete. File correspondence. Trace
movement of files. Put files into archives according to the correct category and
place. Perform routine clerical duties: Make photocopies. Compile duty
roosters and submit to Human Resource. Make transport arrangements for
transfer of patients. Take ward telephone calls.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469 or Enquiries:
Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/204 : FINANCE CLERK REF NO: ECHEALTH/FC/NMAH/NTSG-ON/08/07/2026
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/ NQF level 4 with no experience. One (1) year public
service internship programme experience will be given preference. Basic
knowledge of financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
operate computer and collate financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight
of the Public Service financial legislations, procedures and Treasury
regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Know ledge
of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc). Computer
Literacy, Ability to maintain high level of confidentiality and be able to work
under pressure. Good communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Render Financial Accounting transactions. Receive invoices. Check invoices
for correctness, verification and approval (internal control). Process invoices
(e.g. capture payments). Filing of all documents. Collection of cash. Perform
Salary Administration support services. Receive salary advices. Process
advices (e.g. check advices for correctness, capture salaries, bonuses, salary
adjustments, capture all deductions etc). File all documents. Perform
Bookkeeping support services. Capture all financial transactions. Clear
suspense accounts. Record debtors and creditors. Process electronic banking
transactions. Compile journals. Render a budget support service. Collect
information from budget holders. Compare expenditure against budget. Identify
variances. Capture, allocate virements on budgets. Distribute documents with
regard to the budget. File all documents. Receive and capture cash payments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469 or Enquiries:
Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/205 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/ANZODO/DHPG/09/07/2026
(X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093– R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
159
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or e-Recruitment Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/206 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/AMADO/DHPG/10/07/2026
(X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093– R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Njokweni Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/207 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/BCMDO/DHPG/11/07/2026
(X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Jaceni Tel No: (043) 7433 006/057
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/208 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/CHDO/DHPG/12/07/2026 (X11
POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
160
CENTRE : Chris Hani District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Magxiva Tel No: (045) 839 2133
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/209 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/JGDO/DHPG/13/07/2026 (X10
POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JS Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9631
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/210 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/NMMDO/DHPG/14/07/2026
(X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 391 8164
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
161
POST 25/211 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/ORTDO/DHPG/15/07/2026
(X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/212 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/SBDO/DHPG/16/07/2026 (X10
POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093– R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Sompontsha Tel no: (041) 408 8509
For e-Recruitment Enquiries: RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/213 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: ECHEALTH/DC/NMAH/NTSG-ON/17/07/2026
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience. Basic knowledge of
administration processes. Communication skills, Numeracy, Computer Literacy
and ability to draw data. Self-propelled. Responsive person with positive
attitude.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services: Capture and update data on
computer. Generate spread sheets. Update the system on all data sets.
Validate data (for quality purpose) to ensure correctness, completeness and
consistency. Compile routine statistical information/reports. Receive, register
and track records or documents submitted for further processing in the
administration component of the institution. Capture routine transactions on
computer such as the transfer of information from manual records to electronic
documents. Provide routine and administrative maintenance services: Update
162
and file records. Continuous updating of information on computer for reporting
purposes. Maintain DHIS database. Retrieve information required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469 Enquiries:
RecruitmentHeadOffice@echealth.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must apply for this post by using e-Recruitment system
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za/
POST 25/214 : TRADEMAN AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/TRAW/STEH/ES/18A/07/2026 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226 - R200 523 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, St Elizabeth Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 with 6-month trade-related experience. Basic knowledge of
technical work. Self-propelled, Responsive person with positive attitude.
DUTIES : Provide routine technical services: Handle minor and routine technical work.
Repair minor mechanical, electrical, plumbing and repairing of cracked walls
as well as repairing appliances. Attend to heating, air conditioning, electrical
and fire systems. Repair water reticulation system, broken windows, toilet flush
systems, valves, and stopcocks. Remove broken toilets and basins and repair
burst pipes and leaks. Repair circulating pumps and pressure reducers.
Unblock drains, toilets, basins and sinks to ensure effective functioning of the
sewerage system. Repair doors, locks, general maintenance items including
cutting keys and locks. Prepare fill in and storing of gas cylinders for the
institution. Replace empty cylinders in wards of the institution. Provide routine
maintenance services: Inspect equipment. Perform routine maintenance of
common and communal areas of the institution. Receive and assess routine
maintenance requests and action them. Maintain cleanliness of the workshop
and walkaways. Check workshop stores items such as spare parts and
prepares orders. Conduct routine inspection to identify faults. Inspect, test, and
maintain the electrical lighting and equipment. Check electrical and water
readings. Check and reset fire alarms.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Langa Tel No: (039) 253 5012 or Enquiries:
Mlondolozi.Langa@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/215 : TRADEMAN AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/TRAW/FEPH/ES/18/07/2026 (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226 - R200 523 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Fort England Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 with 6-month trade-related experience. Basic knowledge of
technical work. Self-propelled, Responsive person with positive attitude.
DUTIES : Provide routine technical services: Handle minor and routine technical work.
Repair minor mechanical, electrical, plumbing and repairing of cracked walls
as well as repairing appliances. Attend to heating, air conditioning, electrical
and fire systems. Repair water reticulation system, broken windows, toilet flush
systems, valves, and stopcocks. Remove broken toilets and basins and repair
burst pipes and leaks. Repair circulating pumps and pressure reducers.
Unblock drains, toilets, basins and sinks to ensure effective functioning of the
sewerage system. Repair doors, locks, general maintenance items including
cutting keys and locks. Prepare fill in and storing of gas cylinders for the
institution. Replace empty cylinders in wards of the institution. Provide routine
maintenance services: Inspect equipment. Perform routine maintenance of
common and communal areas of the institution. Receive and assess routine
maintenance requests and action them. Maintain cleanliness of the workshop
and walkaways. Check workshop stores items such as spare parts and
prepares orders. Conduct routine inspection to identify faults. Inspect, test, and
maintain the electrical lighting and equipment. Check electrical and water
readings. Check and reset fire alarms.
ENQUIRIES : Ms X Nazo Tel No: (046) 602 2300 or Enquiries:
Xolelwa.Nazo@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/216 : TRADEMAN AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/TRAW/LIV/ES/19/07/2026 (X5
POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226 - R200 523 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
163
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 with 6-month trade-related experience. Basic knowledge of
technical work. Self-propelled, Responsive person with positive attitude.
DUTIES : Provide routine technical services: Handle minor and routine technical work.
Repair minor mechanical, electrical, plumbing and repairing of cracked walls
as well as repairing appliances. Attend to heating, air conditioning, electrical
and fire systems. Repair water reticulation system, broken windows, toilet flush
systems, valves, and stopcocks. Remove broken toilets and basins and repair
burst pipes and leaks. Repair circulating pumps and pressure reducers.
Unblock drains, toilets, basins and sinks to ensure effective functioning of the
sewerage system. Repair doors, locks, general maintenance items including
cutting keys and locks. Prepare fill in and storing of gas cylinders for the
institution. Replace empty cylinders in wards of the institution. Provide routine
maintenance services: Inspect equipment. Perform routine maintenance of
common and communal areas of the institution. Receive and assess routine
maintenance requests and action them. Maintain cleanliness of the workshop
and walkaways. Check workshop stores items such as spare parts and
prepares orders. Conduct routine inspection to identify faults. Inspect, test, and
maintain the electrical lighting and equipment. Check electrical and water
readings. Check and reset fire alarms.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348 or Enquiries:
Lindelwa.Mabanga@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/217 : TRADEMAN AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/TRAWNMAH/ES/20/07/2026 (X13
POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226 - R200 523 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 with 6-month trade-related experience. Basic knowledge of
technical work. Self-propelled, Responsive person with positive attitude.
DUTIES : Provide routine technical services: Handle minor and routine technical work.
Repair minor mechanical, electrical, plumbing and repairing of cracked walls
as well as repairing appliances. Attend to heating, air conditioning, electrical
and fire systems. Repair water reticulation system, broken windows, toilet flush
systems, valves, and stopcocks. Remove broken toilets and basins and repair
burst pipes and leaks. Repair circulating pumps and pressure reducers.
Unblock drains, toilets, basins and sinks to ensure effective functioning of the
sewerage system. Repair doors, locks, general maintenance items including
cutting keys and locks. Prepare fill in and storing of gas cylinders for the
institution. Replace empty cylinders in wards of the institution. Provide routine
maintenance services: Inspect equipment. Perform routine maintenance of
common and communal areas of the institution. Receive and assess routine
maintenance requests and action them. Maintain cleanliness of the workshop
and walkaways. Check workshop stores items such as spare parts and
prepares orders. Conduct routine inspection to identify faults. Inspect, test, and
maintain the electrical lighting and equipment. Check electrical and water
readings. Check and reset fire alarms.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469 or Enquiries:
Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/218 : TRADEMAN AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/TRAW/EMPIH/ES/21/07/2026 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226 - R200 523 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Empilweni Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 with 6-month trade-related experience. Basic knowledge of
technical work. Self-propelled, Responsive person with positive attitude.
DUTIES : Provide routine technical services: Handle minor and routine technical work.
Repair minor mechanical, electrical, plumbing and repairing of cracked walls
as well as repairing appliances. Attend to heating, air conditioning, electrical
and fire systems. Repair water reticulation system, broken windows, toilet flush
systems, valves, and stopcocks. Remove broken toilets and basins and repair
burst pipes and leaks. Repair circulating pumps and pressure reducers.
Unblock drains, toilets, basins and sinks to ensure effective functioning of the
sewerage system. Repair doors, locks, general maintenance items including
cutting keys and locks. Prepare fill in and storing of gas cylinders for the
institution. Replace empty cylinders in wards of the institution. Provide routine
maintenance services: Inspect equipment. Perform routine maintenance of
164
common and communal areas of the institution. Receive and assess routine
maintenance requests and action them. Maintain cleanliness of the workshop
and walkaways. Check workshop stores items such as spare parts and
prepares orders. Conduct routine inspection to identify faults. Inspect, test, and
maintain the electrical lighting and equipment. Check electrical and water
readings. Check and reset fire alarms.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Sinyahla Tel No: (041) 406 7627 or Enquiries:
Khanyisa.Sinyahla@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/219 : TRADEMAN AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/TRAW/PAH/ES/22/07/2026
SALARY : R170 226 - R200 523 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Port Alfred Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 with 6-month trade-related experience. Basic knowledge of
technical work. Self-propelled, Responsive person with positive attitude.
DUTIES : Provide routine technical services: Handle minor and routine technical work.
Repair minor mechanical, electrical, plumbing and repairing of cracked walls
as well as repairing appliances. Attend to heating, air conditioning, electrical
and fire systems. Repair water reticulation system, broken windows, toilet flush
systems, valves, and stopcocks. Remove broken toilets and basins and repair
burst pipes and leaks. Repair circulating pumps and pressure reducers.
Unblock drains, toilets, basins and sinks to ensure effective functioning of the
sewerage system. Repair doors, locks, general maintenance items including
cutting keys and locks. Prepare fill in and storing of gas cylinders for the
institution. Replace empty cylinders in wards of the institution. Provide routine
maintenance services: Inspect equipment. Perform routine maintenance of
common and communal areas of the institution. Receive and assess routine
maintenance requests and action them. Maintain cleanliness of the workshop
and walkaways. Check workshop stores items such as spare parts and
prepares orders. Conduct routine inspection to identify faults. Inspect, test, and
maintain the electrical lighting and equipment. Check electrical and water
readings. Check and reset fire alarms.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Raco Tel No: (046) 604 4000 or Enquiries:
Neliswa.Raco@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/220 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/LIV/ES/23/07/2026
(X14 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348 or Enquiries:
Lindelwa.Mabanga@echealth.gov.za
165
POST 25/221 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/TOW/ES/23B/07/2026 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Amathole District, Tower Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mapuka Tel No: (046) 645 5008 or Enquiries:
Monde.Mapuka@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/222 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/STEH/ES/23C/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, St Elizabeth Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Langa Tel No: (039) 253 5012 or Enquiries:
Mlondolozi.Langa@echealth.gov.za
166
POST 25/223 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/FEPH/ES/24/07/2026
(X13 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Fort England Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms X Nazo Tel No: (046) 602 2300 or Enquiries:
Xolelwa.Nazo@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/224 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/DORA/ES/25/07/2026 (X17 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Dora Nginza Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Bomela Tel No: (041) 406 4421 or Enquiries:
Busiswa.Bomela@echealth.gov.za
167
POST 25/225 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/EDH/ES/26/07/2026
(X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Elizabeth Donkin Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Felkers Tel No: (041) 585 2323 or Enquiries:
Eugene.Felkers@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/226 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/MTPHARM/ES/27/07/2026 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Mthatha Pharmaceutical Depot
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Diko Tel No: (047) 531 1076/047 532 2779 or Enquiries:
Mzimasi.Diko@echealth.gov.za
168
POST 25/227 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/MRH/ES/28/07/2026
(X47 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Mthatha Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Shabane Tel No: (047) 502 4143/4008 or Enquiries:
Musawakhe.Shabane@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/228 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/ECCEC/ES/29/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Eastern Cape College of Emergency Care
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Plaatjie Tel No: (041) 453 0911 or Enquiries:
Khayalethu.Plaatjie@echealth.gov.za
169
POST 25/229 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/NMM-
FPS/ES/30/07/2026 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Forensic Pathology Services
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Tsoko Tel No: (041) 391 8190 or Enquires: Alatha.Tsoko@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/230 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/BCM-
FPS/ES/31/07/2026 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Forensic Pathology Services
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mangoloti Tel No: (043) 708 1720 or Enquiries:
Simphiwe.Mangoloti@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/231 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/CH-
FPS/ES/32/07/2026 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
170
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Forensic Pathology Services
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Magxiva Tel No: (045) 839 2133 or Enquiries:
Siphiwo.Magxiva@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/232 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/ORT-
FPS/ES/33/07/2026 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Forensic Pathology Services
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or Enquiries:
Anda.Sokutu@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/233 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/UPH/ES/34/07/2026
(X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Uitenhage Provincial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
171
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 995 1129 or Enquiries:
Daleela.Davids@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/234 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/NMMDO/ES/35/07/2026 (X27 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Tsoko Tel No: (041) 391 8190 or Enquires: Alatha.Tsoko@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/235 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/KOMPH/ES/36/07/2026 (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Komani Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
172
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mzola Tel No: (045) 858 8400 or Enquiries:
Nombulelo.Mzola@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/236 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/CMH/ES/37/07/2026
(X21 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Cecilia Makiwane Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Matshaya Tel No: (043) 708 2121 or Enquiries:
Ntombizini.Matshaya@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/237 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/TBH/ES/38/07/2026
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District, Taylor Bequest Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
173
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Ndzinde Tel No: (039) 257 0099 or Enquiries:
Joseph.Ndzinde@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/238 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/ALNH/ES/39/07/2026
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District, Aliwal North Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Mona Tel no: 051 633 7700 or Vumile.Mona@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/239 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/EMPISH/ES/40/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District, Empilisweni Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
174
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Fonya Tel No: (051) 611 0037 or Enquiries:
Jongilizwe.Fonya@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/240 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/JAMSH/ES/41/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District, Jamestown Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9617 or Enquiries:
Joseph.Ndzinde@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/241 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/STYBH/ES/42/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District, Steynburg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
175
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Ndzinde Tel No: (048) 884 0241/051 633 9617 or Enquiries:
Joseph.Ndzinde@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/242 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/BURSDH/ES/43/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District, Burgersdorp Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Zondi Tel No: (051) 653 1881 or Nosipho.Zondi@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/243 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/LDGH/ES/44/07/2026
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District, Lady Grey Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
176
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Skisazana Tel No: (051) 603 0093/0115 or Enquiries:
Ntomboxolo.Skisazana@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/244 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/CLJH/ES/45/07/2026
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District, Cloete Joubert Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Z.O Mgeyi Tel No: (045) 971 0091 or Enquiries:
Nocwaka.Gobo@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/245 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/MACH/ES/46/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District, Maclear Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
177
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Aucamp Tel No: (045) 932 1028 or Enquiries:
Christa.Aucamp@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/246 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/UMLAH/ES/47/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District, Umlamli Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 611 0079/90 or Enquiries:
Josesph.Ndzinde@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/247 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/MALSD/ES/48/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District, Maletswai Sub District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
178
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J.S Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9617 or Enquiries:
Joseph.Ndzinde@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/248 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/ELUSD/ES/49/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District, Elundini Sub District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Tel no: Mr. J.S Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9631 or
Joseph.Ndzinde@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/249 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/SENQSD/ES/50/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District, Senqu Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J.S Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9617/0781161958 or Enquiries:
Joseph.Ndzinde@echealth.gov.za
179
POST 25/250 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/BCMDO/ES/51/07/2026 (X31 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mangoloti Tel No: (043) 708 1720 or Enquiries:
Simphiwe.Mangoloti@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/251 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/SBDO/ES/52/07/2026 (X80 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Sompontsha at 071 867 8865 or Enquiries:
Thandi.Sompontsha@echealth.gov.za
180
POST 25/252 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/ORTDO/ES/53/07/2026 (X60 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel no: 047 502 9000 or Enquiries: Anda.Sokutu@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/253 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/AMADO/ES/54/07/2026 (X35 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Njokweni Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or Enquiries:
Themba.Toko@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/254 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/ENGSD/ES/55/07/2026 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
181
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Engcobo Sub-district Clinics
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Matala Tel No: (047) 548 0022/34/0723558144 or Enquiries:
Ncebakazi.Matala@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/255 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/ALSH/ES/56/07/2026
(X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, All Saints Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NP Gcaza Tel No: (047) 548 4104 or Enquiries:
Priscilla.Gcaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/256 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/MJAH/ES/57/07/2026
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Mjanyana Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
182
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SS Naku Tel No: (047) 874 8000 or Enquiries:
Sivuyile.Naku@echealth@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/257 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/INYSD/ES/58/07/2026 (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Intsika Yethu Clinics
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Mabentsela Tel No: (047) 874 0079 or Enquiries:
Asanda.Mabentsela@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/258 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/COFIH/ES/59/07/2026 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Cofimvaba Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
183
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Somlota Tel No: (047) 874 8000 or Enquiries:
Nomnikelo.Somlota@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/259 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/ENMSD/ES/60/07/2026 (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Enoch Mgijima Clinics
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mtweni Tel No: (045) 807 8908 or Enquiries:
Miranda.Mtweni@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/260 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/HEWH/ES/61/07/2026 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Hewu Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
184
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr X Kolwapi Tel No: (040) 841 0754 or Enquiries:
Xola.kolwapi@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/261 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/MOLH/ES/62/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Molteno Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Tsengiwe Tel No: (045) 967 0089 or Enquiries:
Lonwabo.Tsengiwe@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/262 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/MVH/ES/63/07/2026
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Martjie Venter Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
185
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Zaula Tel No: (045) 846 0041 or Enquiries:
Msingathi.Zaula@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/263 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/STRH/ES/64/07/2026
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Sterksroom Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. CM Swart Tel No: (045) 966 0268 or Enquiries:
Coleen.Swarts@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/264 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/SAKSD/ES/65/07/2026 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Sakhisizwe Sub-District Clinics
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
186
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Mtsi Tel No: (047) 877 0931 or Enquiries: Babalwa.Mtsi@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/265 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/CALH/ES/66/07/2026
(X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Cala Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Mpangele Tel No: (047) 877 0237 or Enquiries:
Ziziphiwo.Mpangele@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/266 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/ELLH/ES/67/07/2026
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE Chris Hani District, Elliot Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
187
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Dunga Tel No: (045) 931 1321 or Enquiries:
Zizo.Dunga@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/267 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/EMALASD/ES/68/07/2026 (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Emalahleni Sub-district Clinics
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Katiya Tel No: (047) 878 2800 or Enquiries:
Nomathamsanqa.Katiya@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/268 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/GGH/ES/69/07/2026
(X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Glen Grey Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
188
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Kumalo Tel No: (047) 879 0000 or Enquiries:
Sandile.Kumalo@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/269 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/DDH/ES/70/07/2026
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Dordrecht Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Tshiwula Tel No. (045) 943 1195 or Enquiries:
Akhona.Tshiwula@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/270 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/INDH/ES/71/07/2026
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Indwe Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
189
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Gouws Tel No: (045) 952 1030 or Enquiries:
Christa.Gouws@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/271 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/INXYSD/ES/72/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Inxuba Yethemba Sub-district Clinics
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Opperman Tel No: (048) 881 2921or Enquiries:
Antionette.Opperman@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/272 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/WISLH/ES/73/07/2026 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Wilhelm Stahl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B Mbalula Tel No: (049) 842 1111 or Enquiries:
Bonile.Mbalula@echealth.gov.za
190
POST 25/273 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/CRADH/ES/74/07/2026 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Cradock Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Danster Tel No: (048) 881 2123 or Enquiries:
Fundiswa.Danster@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/274 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Winnie Madikizela-Mandela Sub-district:
Hlamandana Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/HLAMC/ES/75/07/2026 (X1
Post)
Qobo Clinic Ref No. ECHEALTH/HOSW/QOBC/ES/76/07/2026 (X1 Post)
Mfundambini Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/MFUBC/ES/77/07/2026 (X1
Post)
Malongwana Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/MALGC/ES/78/07/2026 (X1
Post)
Daliwonga Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/DALC/ES/79/07/2026 (X1 Post)
Ndlela Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/NDLC/ES/80/07/2026 (X1 Post)
Makwantini Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/MAKWC/ES/81/07/2026 (X1
Post)
Ntlenzi Clinic Ref No. ECHEALTH/HOSW/NTLEC/ES/82/07/2026 (X1 Post)
Mptesheni Clinic Ref No. ECHEALTH/HOSW/MPTC/ES/83/07/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
191
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Bhekiswayo Tel No: (039) 451 8200 or Enquiries:
Lwanda.Bhekiswayo@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/275 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Ntabankulu Sub-district:
Qaqa Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/QAQC/ES/84/07/2026 (X1 Post)
Sipetu Gateway Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/SPGC/ES/85/07/2026 (X1
Post)
Ntshenshe Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/NTSHC/ES/86/07/2026 (X1
Post)
Sebedi Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/SEBDC/ES/87/07/2026 (X1 Post)
Ntabakhulu Community Health Centre Ref No:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/NTABCHCC/ES/89/07/2026 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Lugongolo Tel No: (039) 258 0953 Or Enquiries:
Anele.Mhloli@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/276 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Maluti Sub-district, Isilindini Clinic Ref No:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/ISLIC/ES/90/07/2026 (X1 Post)
Afsondering Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/AFSOC/ES/91/07/2026 (X1
Post)
Elukholweni Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/ELUKC/ES/92/07/2026 (X1
Post)
Queens Mercy Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/QMC/ES/93/07/2026 (X1
Post)
Mpharane Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/MPHRC/ES/94/07/2026 (X1
Post)
Paballong Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/PABAC/ES/95/07/2026 (X1 Post)
Shepards Hope Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/SHOPC/ES/96/07/2026
(X1 Post)
Maluti Community Health Centre Ref No:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/MALCHC/ES/97/07/2026 (X3 Posts)
192
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R Kok Tel No: 039 256 0140 or Enquiries: Rene.Kok@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/277 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mt Frere Sub-district:
Manqamzweni Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/MANQC/ES/98/07/2026 (X1
Post)
Mpindweni Clinic REF No. ECHEALTH/HOSW/MPINC/ES/99/07/2026 (X1
Post)
Mt Frere Gateway Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/MTFGC/ES/100/07/2026
(X1 Post)
Lugangeni Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/LUGC/ES/101/07/2026 (X1
Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Gamedala Tel No: (039) 797 6005 or Enquiries:
Daluvuyo.Gamedala@echealth.gov.za
193
POST 25/278 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mt Ayliff Sub-district:
Mt Ayliff Gateway Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/MTAGC/ES/102/07/2026
(X1 Post)
Tela Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/TELC/ES/103/07/2026 (X1 Post)
Ntsiziwa Clinic Ref No: ECHEALTH/HOSW/NTSIZC/ES/104/07/2026 (X1
Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Zonyane Tel No: (039) 797 6015 or Enquiries:
Linda.Zonyane@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/279 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/ANZODO/ES/105/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District Office
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070 or Enquiries Kenny.Praim@echealth.gov.za
194
POST 25/280 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/GREVH/ES/106/07/2026 (5X POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Greenville Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Z Madikizela Tel No: (039) 251 3009 or Enquiries:
Zolani.Madikizela@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/281 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/MTALH/ES/107/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Mt Ayliff Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES Mrs O Mjoka Tel No: (039) 254 0236 or Enquiries:
Ongeziwe.Mjoka@echealth.gov.za
195
POST 25/282 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/SIPEH/ES/108/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Sipetu Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mahlathi Tel No: (039) 255 0077 or Enquiries:
Lulama.Mahlathi@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/283 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/KHOTBH/ES/109/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Khotsong TB Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Pinyane Tel No: (039) 737 3801 or Enquiries:
Zandile.Pinyane@echealth.gov.za
196
POST 25/284 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/TAYBH/ES/110/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Taylor Bequest TB Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Kholiso Tel No: (039) 737 3107 or Enquiries:
Sabelo.Khohliso@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/285 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/MKZH/ES/111/07/2026 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Madzikane Ka Zulu Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mkhayi Tel No: (039) 255 8200/11/12 or Enquiries:
Nokwezi.Mqhayi@echealth.gov.za
197
POST 25/286 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/AVH/ES/112/07/2026
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Andries Vosloo Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CZ Zozo Tel No: (042) 243 1313 or Enquiries:
Cumisa.Zozo@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/287 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/BJVH/ES/113/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, BJ Vorster Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Sikiwe Tel No: (042) 288 0210 or Enquiries:
Gillian.Sikiwe@echealth.gov.za
198
POST 25/288 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/JANSH/ES/114/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Jansenville Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Marenene Tel No: (049) 8360588 /049-8360086 0605631089 or
Enquiries: Tamsanqa.Marenene@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/289 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/CAM-
SD/ES/115/07/2026 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Camdeboo Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MT Buyiselo Tel No: (049) 893 0031 or Enquiries:
Mzuvukile.Buyiselo@echealth.gov.za
199
POST 25/290 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/MAK-
SD/ES/116/07/2026 (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Makana Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Fulani Tel No: (046) 622 49015 or Enquiries:
Nonzame.Fulani@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/291 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/KOU-
SD/ES/117/07/2026 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Kouga Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Fillis Tel No: (042) 200 4214 or Enquiries: Lizle.fillis@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/292 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/KOU-
SD/ES/117/07/2026 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
200
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Kouga Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Fillis Tel No: (042) 200 4214 or Enquiries: Lizle.fillis@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/293 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO. ECHEALTH/HOSW/MID-
H/ES/118/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Midland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Magwaxaza Tel No: (049) 807 7739 or Enquiries:
Nomvano.Magwaxaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/294 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/KOU-
SD/ES/117/07/2026 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Kouga Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
201
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Fillis Tel No: (042) 200 4214 or Enquiries: Lizle.fillis@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/295 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/SVH/ES/119/07/2026
(X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Sunday’s Valley Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Fekema Tel No: (042) 2300 406/432/567 or Enquiries:
Thembalethu.Fekema@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/296 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/KOU-
SD/ES/117/07/2026 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Kouga Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
202
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Fillis Tel No: (042) 200 4214 or Enquiries: Lizle.fillis@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/297 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/MPTBH/ES/120/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Margery Parkes TB Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MT Buyiselo Tel No: (049) 893 0031 or Enquiries:
Mzuvukile.Buyiselo@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/298 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/KOU-
SD/ES/117/07/2026 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Kouga Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
203
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Fillis Tel No: (042) 200 4214 or Enquiries: Lizle.fillis@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/299 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/PZMH/ES/121/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, PZ Meyer TB Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Dr P Mboya- Majola Tel No: (042) 291 2072 or Enquiries: Phumeza.Mboya-
Majola@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/300 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/KOU-
SD/ES/117/07/2026 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Kouga Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
204
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Fillis Tel No: (042) 200 4214 or Enquiries: Lizle.fillis@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/301 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/HOSW/WILMH/ES/122/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Willowmore Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Schutte Tel No: (044) 923 1127 or Enquiries:
Rianda.Schutte@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/302 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/KOU-
SD/ES/117/07/2026 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level0 2)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Kouga Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
205
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Fillis Tel No: (042) 200 4214 or Enquiries: Lizle.fillis@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/303 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/LIL-
CC/ES/123/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Lilitha College of Nursing, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mene Tel No: (043) 700 9717/26 or Enquiries:
Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/304 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/KOU-
SD/ES/117/07/2026 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Kouga Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
206
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Fillis Tel No: (042) 200 4214 or Enquiries: Lizle.fillis@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/305 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/LIL-
CC/ES/124/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Lilitha College of Nursing, Mthatha Campus
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mene Tel No: (043) 700 9717/26 or Enquiries:
Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/306 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/KOU-
SD/ES/117/07/2026 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Kouga Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Fillis Tel No: (042) 200 4214 or Enquiries: Lizle.fillis@echealth.gov.za
207
POST 25/307 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/LIL-
PEC/ES/125/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Lilitha College of Nursing, Port Elizabeth Campus
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mene Tel No: (043) 700 9717/26 or Enquiries:
Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/308 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/KOU-
SD/ES/117/07/2026 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Kouga Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Fillis Tel No: (042) 200 4214 or Enquiries: Lizle.fillis@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/309 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/LIV/ES/126/07/2026 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
208
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348 or Lindelwa.Mabanga@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/310 : HOUSEHOLD WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/HOSW/KOU-
SD/ES/117/07/2026 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Kouga Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Poses good communication skills, be able to work shifts including weekends
and public holidays. Be able to rotate when required. Honest and reliable.
Poses physical strength and to cope with physical demands of the position. Be
able to work as a team.
DUTIES : Provide housekeeping & cleaning services: Ensure cleanliness and tidiness of
the areas allocated for cleaning. Removal of garbage disposal. Ensure
cleanliness and hygiene in restrooms, bathrooms and other places in the
building/offices. This includes washing, dusting, polishing, vacuum cleaning
and sweeping as appropriate. Clean kitchen utensils and equipment. Maintain
and keep control of stock levels of cleaning material/tea and meal utensils.
Keep cleaning equipment safe, clean and in an efficient working condition.
Report any item of equipment that needs to be repaired. Report shortage and
or faulty machine/ equipment. Clean the boardroom, arranging chairs, water,
glasses and any other utensils. Provide safeguarding & maintenance services:
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designated cupboards.
Implement simple security measures such as locking doors and closing
windows. Monitor hazards in the buildings/offices/residential areas such as
those related to fire and electricity. Ensure that simple maintenance repairs that
do not need professional help are performed promptly by the service officers.
Ensure compliance with all instructions relating to the use and storage of
materials and equipment. Implement the universal precautionary measures.
Assess the hygiene situation of the buildings and detect current and potential
problems. Ensure adherence to Infection Control and Hygiene regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Fillis Tel No: (042) 200 4214 or Enquiries: Lizle.fillis@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/311 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/STEH/ES/126/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, St Elizabeth Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
209
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Langa Tel No: (039) 253 5012 or Enquiries:
Mlondolozi.Langa@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/312 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/FEPH/ES/127/07/2026
(X14 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Fort England Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms X Nazo Tel No: (046) 602 2300 or Enquiries:
Xolelwa.Nazo@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/313 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/DORA/ES/128/07/2026
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Dora Nginza Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Bomela Tel No: (041) 406 4421 or Enquiries:
Busiswa.Bomela@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/314 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/NMMDO/ES/129/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro District
210
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Tsoko Tel No: 041 391 8190 or Enquires: Alatha.Tsoko@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/315 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/NMAH/ES/130/07/2026
(X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469 or Enquiries:
Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/316 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/LAUW/FRONTH/ES/131/07/2026 (X13 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 2)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Frontier Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
211
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Soxujwa Tel No: (045) 808 4225 or Enquiries:
Thando.Soxujwa@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/317 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/O&AH/ES/132/07/2026
(X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Olivier & Adelaide Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O Gxaweni Tel No: (039) 251 0236 or Enquiries:
Olu.Gxaweni@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/318 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/ORTDO/ES/133/07/2026
(X20 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R 169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or Enquiries:
Anda.Sokutu@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/319 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/AMADO/ES/134/07/2026
(X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
212
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Njokweni Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or Enquiries:
Themba.Toko@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/320 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/ADH/ES/135/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Aberdeen Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Sompontsha Tel No: (049) 846 0391 or Enquiries:
Thandi.Sompontsha@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/321 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/BJVH/ES/136/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, BJ Vorster Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Sikiwe Tel No: (042) 288 0210 or Enquiries:
Gillian.Sikiwe@echealth.gov.za
213
POST 25/322 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/PZMH/ES/137/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, PZ Meyer TB Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Dr P Mboya- Majola Tel No: (042) 291 2072 or Enquiries: Phumeza.Mboya-
Majola@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/323 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/MPTBH/ES/138/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Margery Parkes TB Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MT Buyiselo Tel No: (049) 893 0031 or Enquiries:
Mzuvukile.Buyiselo@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/324 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/MID-H/ES/139/07/2026
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R 169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Midland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
214
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Magwaxaza Tel No: (049) 807 7739 or Enquiries:
Nomvano.Magwaxaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/325 : LAUNDRY WORKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/LAUW/SVH/ES/140/07/2026 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Sunday’s Valley Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Understanding of a Laundry set up. Poses good communication skills, be able
to work shifts especially night shift. Be able to rotate areas in the laundry.
Honest and reliable Poses physical strength and to cope with physical
demands of position. Be able to work as a team and or independently.
DUTIES : Render laundry services: Maintain a safe and clean working environment in
line with health and safety standards. Collect linen from relevant depots. Keep
an accurate record of linen collected and returned to relevant units. Follow the
basic procedure guidelines in preparing and disinfecting linen for wash. Follow
the basic procedure guidelines for washed and cleaned linen. Keep linen in a
good state by inspecting, mending and marking laundry. Be able to operate
various machines in the laundry (i.e., washing, dryer ironing and pressers).
Iron, fold, count and pack laundered items and seal linen bags. Collect and
deliver linen to clients. Sort, count and record dirty linen. Do all laundry
responsibilities as directed by the supervisor. Report any machine defaults to
the supervisor. Maintain laundry equipment/machines: Monitor equipment
temperature. Keep laundry equipment in a proper state. Report defects. Check
and request equipment service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Fekema Tel No: (042) 2300 406/432/567 or Enquiries:
Thembalethu.Fekema@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/326 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/LIV/ES/141/07/2026 (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel no 041 405 2348 or Enquiries:
Lindelwa.Mabanga@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/327 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/FEPH/ES/142/07/2026 (X8
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
215
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Fort England Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms X Nazo Tel No: (046) 602 2300 or Enquiries:
Xolelwa.Nazo@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/328 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/MRH/ES/143/07/2026 (X20
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Mthatha Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Shabane Tel No: (047) 502 4143/4008 or Enquiries:
Musawakhe.Shabane@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/329 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/EDH/ES/144/07/2026 (X8
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Elizabeth Donkin Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
216
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Felkers Tel No: (041) 585 2323 or Enquiries:
Eugene.Felkers@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/330 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/DORA/ES/145/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Dora Nginza Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Bomela Tel No: (041) 406 4421 or Enquiries:
Busiswa.Bomela@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/331 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/NMAH/ES/146/07/2026
(X20 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R 169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469 or Enquiries:
Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
217
POST 25/332 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/JOSH/ES/147/07/2026 (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Jose Pearson TB Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Bushula Tel No: 041 372 8001 or Enquiries:
Ziyanda.Bushula@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/333 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/UPH/ES/148/07/2026 (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Uitenhage Provincial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 995 1129 or Enquiries:
Daleela.Davids@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/334 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/EMPIH/ES/149/07/2026 (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Empilweni Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
218
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Sinyahla Tel No: (041) 406 7627 or Enquiries:
Khanyisa.Sinyahla@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/335 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/FRONTH/ES/150/07/2026
(X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Frontier Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Soxujwa Tel No: (045) 808 4225 or Enquiries:
Thando.Soxujwa@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/336 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/KOMPH/ES/151/07/2026
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Komani Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately. Candidates with a valid licence
driver’s licence will have an added advantage.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
219
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mzola Tel No: (045) 858 8400 or Enquiries:
Nombulelo.Mzola@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/337 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/ORTDO/ES/152/07/2026
(X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or Enquiries:
Anda.Sokutu@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/338 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/AMADO/ES/153/07/2026
(X20 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Njokweni Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or Enquiries:
Themba.Toko@echealth.gov.za
220
POST 25/339 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/MTALH/ES/154/07/2026
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs O Mjoka Tel No: (039) 254 0236 or Enquiries:
Ongeziwe.Mjoka@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/340 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/MKZH/ES/155/07/2026 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Madzikane Ka Zulu Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mkhayi Tel No: (039) 255 8200/11/12 or Enquiries:
Nokwezi.Mqhayi@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/341 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/SIPEH/ES/156/07/2026 (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Sipetu Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
221
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mahlathi Tel No: (039) 255 0077 or Enquiries:
Lulama.Mahlathi@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/342 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/KHOTBH/ES/157/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Khotsong TB Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Pinyane Tel No: (039) 737 3801 or Enquiries:
Zandile.Pinyane@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/343 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/MTALH/ES/158/07/2026
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Mt Ayliff Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
222
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs O Mjoka Tel No: (039) 254 0236 or Enquiries:
Ongeziwe.Mjoka@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/344 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/TAYBH/ES/159/07/2026 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Taylor Bequest TB Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Kholiso Tel No: (039) 737 3107 or Enquiries:
Sabelo.Khohliso@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/345 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/JANSH/ES/160/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Jansenville Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Marenene Tel No: (049) 836 0588/049-8360086/0605631089 or
Enquiries: Tamsanqa.Marenene@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/346 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/MARG/ES/161/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Margery Parkes TB Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
223
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MT Buyiselo Tel No: (049) 893 0031 or Enquiries:
Mzuvukile.Buyiselo@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/347 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/PZMH/ES/162/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, PZ Meyer TB Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Mboya- Majola Tel No: (042) 291 2072 or Enquiries: Phumeza.Mboya-
Majola@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/348 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/WMH/ES/163/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Willowmore Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
224
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Schutte Tel No: (044) 923 1127 or Enquiries:
Rianda.Schutte@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/349 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/MID-H/ES/164/07/2026 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Midland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES Ms N Magwaxaza Tel No: (049) 807 7739 or Enquiries:
Nomvano.Magwaxaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/350 : FOOD SERVICE AID REF NO: ECHEALTH/FSA/SVH/ES/165/07/2026 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Sunday’s Valley Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 or 2 (ABET level 2 certificate or equivalent) with no experience.
Knowledge of Food services & food preparation, Operation of food processing
equipment, Basic health & safety measures, Health environment, Hygiene &
bacterial contamination control measures. Basic literacy, Ability to operate food
processing equipment, Measure accurately.
DUTIES : Render catering services: Follow menus and special diet plans. Prepare
ingredients for meals e.g. cleaning and cutting vegetables, prepare meat,
poultry and fish. Process/cook prepared ingredients for consumption. Serve
prepared food in the relevant crockery. Ensure that portions served are
according to the stipulated dietary allowances. Pack food delivery trolleys and
deliver to relevant areas in the health institution. Ensure that the correct meals
are delivered to the correct areas in the institution. Maintain safe and hygienic
environment: Collect used cutlery and crockery from wards and other service
areas. Check that the correct number of cutlery and crockery have been
returned to the kitchen. Wash and dry used equipment, cutlery and crockery.
Perform quality checks to ensure that the cleaning process has been
performed according to standard. Pack and store clean food processing
equipment. Clean the food processing area at regular intervals during the day.
Perform regular checks to establish whether safety and sanitation standards
are being adhered to. Report unhygienic and unsafe situation to the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Fekema Tel No: (042) 2300 406/432/567 or Enquiries:
Thembalethu.Fekema@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/351 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/LIV/ES/166/07/2026 (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
225
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment. Clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348 or Enquiries:
Lindelwa.Mabanga@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/352 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/TAYBH/ES/167/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Taylor Bequest TB Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment. Clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Kholiso Tel No: (039) 737 3107 or Enquiries:
Sabelo.Khohliso@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/353 : PORTER REF NO. ECHEALTH/POR/JOSH/ES/168/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Empilweni Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment. Clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Sinyahla Tel No: (041) 406 7627 or Enquiries:
Khanyisa.Sinyahla@echealth.gov.za
226
POST 25/354 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/UPH/ES/169/07/2026 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Uitenhage Provincial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment. Clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 995 1129 or Enquiries:
Daleela.Davids@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/355 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/EMPIH/ES/170/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Uitenhage Provincial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment. Clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Davids Tel No: (041) 995 1129 or Enquiries:
Daleela.Davids@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/356 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/NMM/ES/171/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment. Clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Tsoko Tel No: (041) 391 8190 or Enquires: Alatha.Tsoko@echealth.gov.za
227
POST 25/357 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/NMAH/ES/172/07/2026 (X13 POSTS)
SALARY : R 144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment. Clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469 or Enquiries:
Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/358 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/NMAH/NTSG-ON/173/07/2026 (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment. Clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469 or Enquiries:
Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/359 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/FRONTH/ES/174/07/2026 (X10
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District, Frontier Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
228
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment. Clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Soxujwa Tel No: (045) 808 4225 or Enquiries:
Thando.Soxujwa@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/360 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/CMH/ES/175/07/2026 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Cecilia Makiwane Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Matshaya Tel No: (043) 708 2121 or Enquiries:
Ntombizini.Matshaya@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/361 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/ORTDO/ES/175/07/2026 (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000 or Enquiries:
Anda.Sokutu@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/362 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/AVH/ES/176/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Andries Vosloo Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
229
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CZ Zozo Tel No: (042) 243 1313 or Enquiries:
Cumisa.Zozo@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/363 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/HUMH/ES/177/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Humansdorp Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Kivedo Tel No: (042) 200 4279/236 or Enquiries:
Gishma.Kivedo@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/364 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/MID-H/ES/178/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Midland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Magwaxaza Tel No: (049) 807 7739 or Enquiries:
Nomvano.Magwaxaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/365 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/SDVH/ES/179/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Sunday’s Valley Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
230
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment. Clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Fekema Tel No: (042) 2300 406/432/567 or Enquiries:
Thembalethu.Fekema@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/366 : PORTER REF NO: ECHEALTH/POR/SETTH/ES/180/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Settlers Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or equivalent) with no experience. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Must be willing to work shifts and
under pressure. Sound knowledge of Customer care.
DUTIES : Provision of hospital and patient support services: Wheel patients to and from
the wards. Transport patients to various service areas e.g. operating theatre.
Transport patients to vehicles or other transportation. Collect and transport
corpses to the mortuary. Deliver equipment, stores and documentation to
wards and other departments. Collect and deliver specimens. Offloading of
patients from ambulance and private cars to the stretchers. Cleaning of
stretchers and wheelchairs after usage at all times. Report all faulty or broken
equipment to your supervisor immediately. Render mortuary services: Receive
corpses – record date and time received and released. Store corpses in the
cool room. Release and keep record of corpses handed over to next of kin.
Load and off-load corpses. Keep proper identification and maintain accuracy
of records in the field of work. Maintain equipment clean equipment. Safe
keeping of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Kondile Tel No: (046) 602 5046 or Enquiries:
Zukiswa.Kondile@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/367 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/PCT/EDH/ES/181/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Elizabeth Donkin Psychiatric Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Felkers Tel No: (041) 585 2323 or Enquiries:
Eugene.Felkers@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/368 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/PCT/LIV/ES/182/07/2026
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
231
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348 or Enquiries:
Lindelwa.Mabanga@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/369 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PCT/DORA/ES/183/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Dora Nginza Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Bomela Tel No: (041) 406 4421 or Enquiries:
Busiswa.Bomela@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/370 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PCT/JOSE/ES/184/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Jose Pearson Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Bushula Tel No: (041) 372 8001 or Enquiries:
Ziyanda.Bushula@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/371 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PCT/AMADO/ES/185/07/2026 (X20 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
232
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Njokweni Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532 or Enquiries:
Themba.Toko@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/372 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/PCT/ADH/ES/186/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Aberdeen Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Sompontsha Tel No: (049) 846 0391 or Enquiries:
Thandi.Sompontsha@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/373 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PCT/BJVH/ES/187/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, BJ Vorster Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Sikiwe Tel No: (042) 288 0210 or Enquiries:
Gillian.Sikiwe@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/374 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PCT/HUMH/ES/188/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Humansdorp Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Kivedo Tel No: (042) 200 4279/236 or Enquiries:
Gishma.Kivedo@echealth.gov.za
233
POST 25/375 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/PCT/ MID-
H/ES/189/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Midland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Magwaxaza Tel No: (049) 807 7739 or Enquiries:
Nomvano.Magwaxaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/376 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/PCT/PAH/ES/190/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Port Alfred Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Raco Tel No: (046) 604 4000 or Enquiries:
Neliswa.Raco@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/377 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PCT/SETTH/ES/191/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Settlers Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Kondile Tel No: (046) 602 5046 or Enquiries:
Zukiswa.Kondile@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/378 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PCT/WILMH/ES/192/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District, Willowmore Hospital
234
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Schutte Tel No: (044) 923 1127 or Enquiries:
Rianda.Schutte@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/379 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/PCT/TAYBH/ES/193/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District, Taylor Bequest TB Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Kholiso Tel No: (039) 737 3107 or Enquiries:
Sabelo.Khohliso@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/380 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/PCT/LIL-
CC/ES/194/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Lilitha College of Nursing, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mene Tel No: (043) 700 9717/26 or Enquiries:
Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/381 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/PCT/LIL-
ELC/ES/195/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Lilitha College of Nursing, East London Campus
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
235
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mene Tel No: (043) 700 9717/26 or Enquiries:
Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/382 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/PCT/LIL-
LSKC/ES/196/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Lilitha College of Nursing, Lusikisiki Campus
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mene Tel No: (043) 700 9717/26 or Enquiries:
Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/383 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/PCT/LIL-
MTAC/ES/197/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Lilitha College of Nursing, Mthatha Campus
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mene Tel No: (043) 700 9717/26 or Enquiries:
Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/384 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/PCT/LIL-
PEC/ES/198/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Lilitha College of Nursing, Port Elizabeth Campus
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
236
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mene Tel No: (043) 700 9717/26 or Enquiries:
Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/385 : PROPERTY CARETAKER REF NO: ECHEALTH/PCT/LIL-
QTNC/ES/199/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Lilitha College of Nursing, Queenstown Campus
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Physical strong and
healthy person. Ability to cope with the physical demand of the post and various
Weather condition. Preferable garden experience, formal cleaning
environment/ground /waste. Ability to work in a team and under pressure.
Rotation to different areas when need arise.
DUTIES : Maintenance and development of facility garden. Cleaning the surroundings.
Prepare soil for planting. Maintenance of trees, flowers, shrubs and grass in
garden. Removing of weeds in beddings. Moving of lawns, planting of trees
and plants. Watering of gardens, maintain/ cleaning of parking and pathways.
Moving of furniture as and when necessary. Take care of garden, machinery
and equipment. Remove and collection of assets various areas. Cleaning of
gutters. Adherence to safety regulations. Execute any other duties delegated
by supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mene Tel No: (043) 700 9717/26 or Enquiries:
Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 25/386 : MESSENGER REF NO: ECHEALTH/MESS/LIL-CCC/ES/200/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Lilitha College of Nursing, Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 4 or NQF level 1 to 3 with no experience. Must be computer literate.
Sound organizational skills. Good people skills. Basic written communication
skills. Client orientation and Customer focus. Good communication.
DUTIES : Perform messenger functions: Sort and arrange correspondences in the
registry. Collect, distribute and circulate correspondences (mail, parcels,
documents and files). Record and control correspondence register. Sort mail,
files, documents and parcels. Ensure that items to collect are sealed and
addressed. Collect mail, files, documents and parcels from addressor. Deliver
mail, files, documents and parcels to addressees. Ensure that the recipients
sign on the delivery book/register. Record contents and physical addresses in
the delivery book/register. Perform general office assistant tasks: Make copies,
fax and shred documents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mene Tel No: (043) 700 9717/26 or Enquiries:
Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
237
ANNEXURE T
PROVINICIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
Free State Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an equal opportunity affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representativity (race, gender and disability) in the Department
through the filling of these posts and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote
representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the reference number, must be forwarded to Mrs S Hlekiso, Private
Bag X02, Bloemfontein, 9301 or delivered by Hand to Mrs S Hlekiso in Room
228, 2nd Floor, Admin Building, Glen. Email: recruitment@dard.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
NOTE : To apply, submit a newly implemented Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae
(PDF document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery.
The Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late
applications due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted
candidates must provide certified copies of required documents (Identity
Document, qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to
support senior management experience to Human Resources before the
interviews, including South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation
reports for foreign qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification.
To be appointed at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must
complete the SMS Pre-entry programme offered by the National School of
Government (NSG). Find course details here:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/
appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela Programme:
Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following
the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates
will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive, behavioural
preferences, emotional intelligence and integrity. All shortlisted candidates for
other posts, shall undertake a pre-entry assessment which will be in the form
of a practical / technical exercise. Candidates will also be assessed on Integrity
(Ethical Conduct). Selection panels shall score the technical exercise as an
additional criterion in the interview process. NB: Please note that false or
fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications.
Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
heard from us within 4 months, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: FSDARDEA is an
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination. No
late applications will be considered.
238
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 25/387 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL AND MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO:
DIR/FMA
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13). The remuneration package consists of the
basic salary, the Government's contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be structured in terms of the
rules for the structuring of the flexible portion, and which may include a 13th
cheque, motor car allowance, home owner's allowance and medical aid
assistance.
CENTRE : Glen
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in
Accounting/Financial Management/Cost and Management Accounting or
Auditing as recognized by SAQA. Minimum 5 Years of relevant experience at
a middle / senior managerial level in the financial management and accounting
field and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). SMS
Pre-Entry (Nyukela) Certificate prior to appointment. Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts.
Knowledge of budget management processes and administration, ability to
implement and internal systems and controls to ensure sound financial
management, well vested in the PFMA and knowledge of the legislative
framework governing the public service e.g., Procurement policies, Public
Service Act, Understanding of the public services environment, Government
systems and structures, financial management. Generic Competencies:
Strategic Capability and Leadership. People Management and Empowerment.
Programme and Project Management. Financial Management. Change
Management. Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation. Problem
Solving and Analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication
(Verbal and written). Technical competencies: Legislation interpretation,
Coordination and monitoring skills; Policy formulation & implementation.
DUTIES : Strategically guide, manage and coordinate all activities in the Directorate
towards ensuring the effective and efficient functioning of the Directorate:
Develop and ensure the successful implementation of an APP for the
Directorate: Finance and Management Accounting in alignment with the
Directorate’s strategic objectives and targets and other obligations / legislative
requirements applicable to the Directorates core business. Monitor and report
on the extent to which the Directorate its strategic objectives and targets as per
APP/National and Provincial Programmes of Action / EXCO-FOHOD
Resolutions, etc. Implement measures to address shortcoming identified by
the AG, Audit Committee as well as shortcomings identified by Internal Audit
and/or Chief Risk Officer. Implement measures to address shortcomings
identified by AG, Audit Committee, Internal Audit and/or Chief Risk Officer.
Implement effective system in conjunction with other SCM and other role-
players to ensure payment of service providers within 30 days. Ensure sound
management of financial accounting systems and procedures in line with
legislations and policy. Oversee the financial revenue, expenditure
management and accounting directorate. Monitor the policy and legislative
framework to ensure that cognizance is taken of new developments. Develop
and maintain policies and processes. Monitor revenue collected and
expenditure incurred and submit reports and plans as required. Monitor
compliance with financial prescripts. Provide advice and guidance to role
players on revenue and expenditure procedures. Oversee the management of
revenue, expenditure management and accounting work as required. Revenue
management – Ensure that cashier, banking, debt management, monitoring
and reporting services are rendered. Expenditure management – Ensure that
payment for compensation of employees, goods and services, transfers,
subsidies and reporting are efficiently and effectively performed. Accounting –
To provide financial administration and accounting services (ledgers/journals,
accounting and reporting (interim/quarterly) and annual financial statements).
Ensure and oversee the implementation of management accounting systems.
Oversee financial planning, budgeting and reporting systems. Monitor the
policy and legislative framework to ensure that cognizance is taken of new
developments. Develop and maintain policies and processes. Monitor cash
flow and submit cash flow reports and plans as required. Ensure compliance
with financial prescripts. Provide leadership and guidance to role players on
the use of forecasting methods and tools. Manage financial planning,
239
budgeting and reporting work as required. Planning Ensure that information for
planning purposes is collected and analysed properly. Budgeting Manage,
review, analyse and quality assure the budget preparation process. Reporting
Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the management
accounting reporting processes. Manage the roll-over, adjustment estimates
and virement process: Ensure that information on the requirement for role-over
requests is disseminated to responsibility and programme managers. Ensure
that all roll-over requests are considered, proposal developed submitted to the
CFO for consideration. Ensure that the approved roll-overs are incorporated in
the adjustment’s budgets. Assess the need for additional funds required from
the adjustment estimates process through monitoring of expenditure trends.
Ensure the assessment of expenditure trends and the development of
proposals on the virement or shifting of funds. Manage the directorate’s budget.
Procurement and asset management for the directorate. Maintain discipline.
Manage performance and development. Develop and manage the operational
plan and report on progress as required. Develop implement and maintain
processes to ensure proper control of work. Compile and submit all required
administrative reports. Planning and allocate work. Provide financial technical
advice and guidance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Mabilo at 082 787 9659
POST 25/388 : DIRECTOR: SUSTAINABLE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DIR/SRM
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13). The remuneration package consists of the
basic salary, the Government's contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be structured in terms of the
rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and which may include a 13th
cheque, motor car allowance, home owner's allowance and medical aid
assistance
CENTRE : Glen
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Engineering, Natural Resource
Management, or Land Use Planning. 5 years of experience at a middle / senior
managerial level in a sustainable / natural resource management environment.
Valid driver’s license (code B). Compulsory Nyukela SMS pre-entry certificate
prior to appointment. Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth
knowledge of relevant polices and prescripts applicable to the area of
responsibility. Generic Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership.
People Management and Empowerment. Programme and Project
Management. Financial Management. Change Management. Knowledge
Management, Service Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis.
Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication (Verbal and written).
Technical competencies: Legislation interpretation, Coordination and
monitoring skills; Policy formulation & implementation.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of engineering services. Promote sustainable Land
Care. Promote the implementation of sustainable use and management of
land. Manage Agricultural Risk and Disaster Management Plan. Manage & co-
ordinate all resources (e.g. human, finance, equipment, etc.) of the Directorate.
Provide inputs to provincial policies on all aspects relating to service delivery
and implementation of all policies which will enable the Department to fulfil its
role in delivering a service in line with the strategic plan to communities / clients.
Ensure partnership and coordination with relevant role players to enhance
service delivery. Advice the Chief Director: Agricultural Development Support
on all matters in order to ensure informed decision making and forward
planning. Participate in the development of the 5-year strategic plan, the
Annual Performance Plan and Operational Plan for the Directorate. Monitor the
implementation of SRM matters and report monthly, quarterly and annually to
enhance the overall performance of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Mokone at 064 063 6708
POST 25/389 : PRINCIPAL: GLEN COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE REF NO: PRIN/GC (X1
POST)
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13). The remuneration package consists of the
basic salary, the Government's contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be structured in terms of the
rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and which may include a 13th
240
cheque, motor car allowance, home owner's allowance and medical aid
assistance.
CENTRE : Glen College of Agriculture
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate NQF level 7 as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority in Agriculture / Education, Business Management, Management,
Public Management, Business Economics. 5 years of experience at a
middle/senior managerial level in a higher education environment. Valid
driver’s license (code B). Compulsory Nyukela SMS pre-entry certificate prior
to appointment. Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth
knowledge of relevant polices and prescripts applicable to the area of
responsibility. Generic Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership.
People Management and Empowerment. Programme and Project
Management. Financial Management. Change Management. Knowledge
Management, Service Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis.
Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication (Verbal and written).
Technical competencies: Legislation interpretation, Coordination and
monitoring skills; Policy formulation & implementation.
DUTIES : Overall manage and strategically direct all the Programmes under Structured
Agricultural Training and Development, which include the following areas of
responsibility: Higher Education and Training Services; Further Education and
Training Services; Institute Support Services; Total Quality Management
Services; and Institute Farm Management Services. Manage the development
of strategies and policies and its implementation in accordance with agreed
norms and standards and manage the implementation of National, Provincial
and Departmental frameworks. Oversee quality assurance processes in higher
and further education and training qualification offerings, which inter alia
include the following: Ensure the development and maintenance of the
Agricultural Training Institute Annual Quality Assurance Plan; Ensure the
development, design and alignment of higher and Further education & Training
curriculum to the required HEQC / FET standards; Manage the implementation
of further education and training certification; Ensure compliance with the
accreditation requirements and ensure the establishment of Agricultural
Training Institute committees. Develop business models for enhancing income
generation projects for the College. Oversee the implementation of applicable
Acts and regulatory requirements (e.g. Higher Education Act 101 of 1997,
Further Education and Training Act 98 of 1998, Skills Development Act 97 of
1998, South African Qualifications Authority Act 58 of 1995, National
Development Plan, Public Service Act, 1994, PSR, 2016 (as amended),
PFMA1999, Labour Relations Act, 1996, PAIA, Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa, Act No 108. of 1996, BCEA, etc.). Manage the development of
the 5-year strategic plan and the annual performance plan for the Directorate
and monitor the implementation of all agricultural training and development
requirements and report monthly, quarterly and annually to enhance the overall
performance of the Directorate. Manage the utilization of all resources of the
Directorate in line with relevant legislation. Advise and interact with various role
players within and outside the Department on all issues relating to agricultural
training and development to optimize productivity and accelerate economic
growth in the in order to develop the Agricultural Sector. Identify potential risks,
mitigate solutions and act pro-actively to facilitate implementation of solutions.
Manage and coordinate a comprehensive array of programs, operations,
campaigns and interventions aimed at the achievement of the priorities of the
Directorate to support sustainability and growth within the Agricultural Sector.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MM Tsoametsi at 082 450 1993
POST 25/390 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: LEGAL/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13). The remuneration package consists of the
basic salary, the Government's contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be structured in terms of the
rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and which may include a 13th
cheque, motor car allowance, home owner's allowance and medical aid
assistance.
CENTRE : Glen
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Law as recognised by SAQA. Must
be admitted as an Attorney or Advocate. 5 years of experience at a middle /
senior managerial level in a legal environment. Valid driver’s license (code B).
Compulsory Nyukela SMS pre-entry certificate prior to appointment.
241
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: In-depth knowledge of all legal
prescripts applicable to the public service and in particular the Constitution of
South Africa (Act 108 of 1996). Advanced knowledge of South African
Constitutional Law, Administrative Law, Law of Contract, Labour Law,
interpretation of statutes, Planning and Development Law, Civil Litigation, and
Mediation, the Code of Conduct for the Public Service, Bill of Rights, and any
other legal aspect applicable to South African Law. Broad knowledge of the
interpretation of statutes, good knowledge and experience in drafting all legal
matters and interpreting legislation. Generic Competencies: Strategic
Capability and Leadership. People Management and Empowerment.
Programme and Project Management. Financial Management. Change
Management. Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation. Problem
Solving and Analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication
(Verbal and written). Technical competencies: Coordination and monitoring
skills; Policy formulation & implementation.
DUTIES : Provide guidance and support to the entire department, advise the MEC,
Senior Management, and staff in all legal matters to manage and mitigate legal
risks that might face the department and the office of the MEC. Manage the
provision of effective litigation management in the department. Manage the
provision of effective legal drafting of opinions and contracts. Coordinate with
other departments on all legal-related issues that have a direct bearing on the
Department and ensure that the recovery costs of its activities. Manage the
provision of legal advisory support services. Coordinate legislative review and
reform program in the department. Carry out all administrative legal actions to
ensure compliance. Handle litigation matters. Ensure legal compliance with
national, international and continental instruments. Advice on the drafting and
monitoring of the service level agreements. Represent the department at fora,
including but not limited to litigation (civil / labour), Bargaining Councils, CCMA,
Labour Court, etc. Participate in the development of the 5-year strategic plan,
the Annual Performance Plan and Operational Plan for the Directorate. Monitor
implementation and report monthly, quarterly and annually to enhance the
overall performance of the Directorate Manage resources which include, inter
alia: Budget, Training, mentoring and development, performance
management, work allocation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TM Mabilo at 082 787 9659
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/391 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY MANAGEMENT REF NO: DD/SECURITY
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Glen
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in Security
Management/Social Science Management, Management Science, SSA
Security Managers Course, Valid driver’s license. 3 - 4 years of experience at
supervisory role (Assistant Director) in Security Management environment).
Knowledge: Relevant legislation related to public security, including the
Minimum Information Security Standards Act (Miss). Disciplinary procedures
and what constitutes unprofessional conduct. Security Business Processes.
National Information Security policy. Risk and threats management. Safety and
security management and administration, including-(security auditing, physical
security measures, contingency planning, occupational health and safety,
personnel security, document security, surveillance, information technology
security, fire regulation and fire protection and communication security).
Security environment (SSA, SAPS). Security breaches and investigations.
DUTIES : Manage and give advice on the total security function which include personnel,
documentation, physical communication, etc. and identify risks, threats to the
security and vulnerabilities in the department. Develop and facilitate the
implementation of a departmental security policy, render advice thereon and
devise security measures and procedures in line with the policy. Run security
awareness programme in the Department and advise management about
security implications of management decisions. Monitor the extent of
adherence / compliance to the security policy and measures which include –
ensuring that officials with access to sensitive information are vetted, the
introduction of corrective / disciplinary steps, administration of vetting
applications. Liaise with SSA for advice, assistance and information regarding
information security and submission of reports on incidents of security
242
breaches and / or leakages of sensitive information, for investigation at Glen
College of Agriculture premises, Glen Farm and other departmental
workstations and areas across the Free State. Liaise with SAPS about physical
security needs / problems to ensure effective security, e.g. key control, access
control, etc. Take responsibility for the implementation of MISS. Manage
resources which include, inter alia: Budget, Training, mentoring and
development, performance management, work allocation, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Mlambo at 060 537 3259
POST 25/392 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FOOD SECURITY REF NO: DD/FOOD
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Glen
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree / Post Graduate Diploma in Agriculture
(NQF level 8). 3 – 4 years’ experience in middle management level at Assistant
Director level in agriculture preferably in a food security environment. Driver’s
license. Compulsory SACNASP Registration.
DUTIES : Promote household food and nutrition security. Coordinate food security
programmes in Department and provincial level. Liaise with key role players
when planning and implementing food security. Represent the Department on
Provincial and National Food Security and Food Security related forums (e.g.
SAVAC, IFNSF, PAVAC). Compile and update Database of households and
institutions benefitting from agricultural food security initiatives. Compile and
Update Database of all Food Security Role players in the Free State. Create
awareness with regard to Food Security. Disseminate information on food
security to management, peers and clients. Monitor and evaluate
implementation and impact of Food Security initiatives in the Department.
Coordinate and Implement YAFF (Youth in Agriculture). Coordinate pre-event
activities (Awareness, applications and adjudication). Coordinate video and
profiles for National adjudication. Coordinate, plan and implement Provincial
event. Coordinate and support National event. Coordinate post-event activities
(evaluations, etc). Represent Department at NOC meetings. Coordinate and
Implement FEA (Female Entrepreneur Awards) in the province. Coordinate
pre-event activities (Awareness, applications and adjudication). Coordinate
video and profiles for National adjudication. Coordinate, plan and implement
Provincial event. Coordinate and support National event. Coordinate post-
event activities (evaluations, etc). Represent Department at NOC meetings.
Perform administrative and related functions. Compile reports as required.
Human capital development: Supervise and manage staff. Participate and
apply the PDMS (Own and subordinates). Self-development through informal
and formal training initiatives that is relevant to the duties of the official.
Effective management of all physical assets of the unit. Give inputs for budget
planning. Manage grant funding allocated to Food Security as Food Security
Pillar Manager. Manage grant funding allocated to FEA as Provincial FEA
coordinator.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Madiba at 064 063 6910
POST 25/393 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EXTENSION REF NO: EXT/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Thabo Mofutsanyane District, Phuthaditjaba (X1 Post)
Lejweleputswa District, Welkom (X1 Post)
REQUIRMENTS : Appropriate 4-year Agricultural Degree (NQF 8). Compulsory registration with
SACNASP. 3 – 5 years experience required. Valid driver’s license (code B).
DUTIES : Oversee the rendering of agricultural extension and advisory services. Promote
farmer driven extension programmes. Promote and implement a commodity
approach through the effective and efficient utilisation of resources (e.g. soil,
water, veld, etc.). Coordinate and part demonstrations of farming methods,
organise farmers days, information sessions etc. Conduct farm visits for impact
assessments and report thereon. Source technical inputs from specialists as
required. Ensure and promote sustainable agricultural enterprises. Gather and
analyse relevant information in order to assist with identification of problem
areas and prioritisation thereof. Identify projects and conduct feasibility studies.
Establish structures (Cooperatives, Committees etc.) to address the need/s
identified. Build capacity of clients. Promote the implementation of good
agricultural practices, technologies and latest trends. Monitor and evaluate the
success / effectiveness of production systems. Provide continuous support to
243
ensure sustained production. Facilitate and participate in project planning
structures. Identify projects. Provide technical support and ensure the
development implementation of business plans. Facilitate the registration of
legal entities (e.g. Cooperatives, Close Cooperation etc.). Prioritise projects
and present to project approval structures. Ensure and support the
implementation of projects / programmes. Ensure effective monitoring and
evaluation of projects. Facilitate partnerships with relevant stakeholders.
Promote and implement the relevant strategies/ programmes. Establish and
enhance the relationships with clients and stakeholders. Interact with
commodity organisations (e.g. SASA, Grain SA, Pork Procedures etc.).
Participate in the relevant committees / forums. Perform all administrative and
related functions. Give input towards policy. Keep abreast of latest national and
international quality developments, prescripts, policies and procedures. Keep
abreast of latest national and international quality developments, prescripts,
policies and procedures. Compile and submit reports as required. Comply with
Public Service prescripts and Departmental policies. Ensure customer
satisfaction. Provide input in budget planning process. Supervise resources
(human, finance, assets, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Thabo Mofutsanyane District: Mr M Malete at 081 045 3622
Lejweleputswa District: Mr T Mothwa at 066 025 5051
POST 25/394 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A - B REF NO: CET/2026
SALARY : R573 552 - R1 376 199 per annum, (OSD). The remuneration package consists
of the basic salary, the Government's contribution to the Government
Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be structured in terms
of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and which may include a
13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner's allowance and medical aid
assistance.
CENTRE : Xhariep District, Trompsburg (Placement area may be changed due to
departmental needs)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma or B Tech in Engineering. Compulsory registration with the
Engineering Council of South Africa as a Professional Engineering Technician.
Valid driver’s license (code B) 6 years post qualification technical experience
in a soil conservation / landcare environment.
DUTIES : Manager technical services: Manage technical services and support in
conjunction with Engineers, Technologists and associates in field, workshop
and technical office activities. Ensure the promotion of safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure
quality assurance of technical designs with specifications and authorize / make
recommendations for approval by the relevant authority. Manage
administrative and related functions. Provide inputs into the budgeting process.
Compile and submit reports as required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the
technical/engineering operational plan. Ensure the development,
implementation and maintenance databases. Manage, supervise and control
technical and related personnel and assets. Research and development.
Continuous professional development to keep up with new technologies and
procedures. Research / literature studies on technical engineering technology
to improve expertise. To liaise with relevant bodies / councils on engineering-
related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CTB Smith at 073 156 2740
POST 25/395 : LECTURER: AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE REF NO: LEC/COLLEGE (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Glen College of Agriculture
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate 4 years B Sc Degree or equivalent specializing in Crop Production,
Animal Production and Pasture Science. Relevant 3 years’ experience in a
lecturing field required. Computer skills. Formal Training and presentation
skills.
DUTIES : Prepare lesson plans and present practical, theoretical and/or short courses.
This would entail, inter alia, the following: Prepare, practical and theoretical
material; Present classes; Maintain discipline during classes. Renewal and
development of course material and study guides. This would entail, inter alia,
the following: Do basic and information research in the subject field; Provide
244
input for curriculum development; Integrate relevant findings in existing
courses; Develop totally new courses if required; Liaise with relevant
agricultural role players; Align course material with requirements set for
academic institutions. Assessment of students through inter alia: Compilation
of question papers and memorandums for examinations; Grading of answer
sheets, papers and assignments; Practical evaluation; Invigilate during exams
and tests. Administrative responsibility. This would include, inter alia, the
following: Give input towards policy, Give input regarding planning – academic,
facilities, finance, etc. Develop year plans for classes. Administration in terms
of classes e.g. attendance registers, student records, exam results etc.; Serve
on various committees (e.g. subject academic committees etc.); Comply with
the Public Service prescripts. Keep abreast of the applicable prescripts,
Policies, procedures, technologies and new developments in the subject field.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WT Mngwambe at 072 083 1672
POST 25/396 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A - C REF NO:
ET/2026
SALARY : R407 337 – R518 769 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Fezile Dabi District, Sasolburg (Placement area may be changed due to
departmental needs)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Civil Engineering. Compulsory registration with the
Engineering Council of South Africa as a Professional Engineering Technician.
3 years post qualification technical experience. Valid driver’s license (code B).
DUTIES : Render technical services under supervision: Assist Engineers, Technologists
and associates in field, workshop and technical office activities. Promote safety
in line with statutory and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Produce plans with
specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by the relevant authority.
Perform administrative and related functions: Provide inputs into the budgeting
process as required. Compile and submit reports as required. Provide and
consolidate inputs to the technical / engineering operational plan; develop,
implement and maintain databases. Supervise and control technical and
related personnel and assets. Research and development: Keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research / literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise. To liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering-related matters and follow approved
programme of development for registration purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CTB Smith at 073 156 2740
POST 25/397 : RISK PRACTITIONER REF NO: RP/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Glen (Risk Management Services)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma / Bachelor’s
Degree (NQF 7) in Risk Management / Internal Audit / Accounting / Economics
/ Compliance Management. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : To assist with the development, maintenance and implementation of risk
related documents: Risk Management Strategy, Risk Management
Framework, Risk Management Policy statements, Risk Plan and Risk Policy.
Facilitate risk identification and assessments through workshops maintain &
update the department’s consolidated risk register database. To conduct risk
awareness programs. To monitor and review the implementation of the risk
management processes through Operational Monitor Report and Report on
performance vs Risk Management implementation Plan. To assist with the
secretariat duties of the Risk Management Committee. Responsible for the
Risk Management Committee minutes and attendance registers. Provide
logistical and support services to the Risk Management Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Crisp at 060 983 8291
POST 25/398 : IT TECHNICIAN REF NO: IT/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Thabo Mofutsanyana District, Phuthaditjhaba
REQUIREMENTS : Tertiary qualification (NQF 6) in Information, Communication Technology or any
ICT relevant qualification Application certification.
245
DUTIES : Implement and installation of ITC equipment, which will include the setup,
installation and testing of new equipment. Maintaining ITC equipment and
software. Check for Viruses. Implement Security & Firewalls. Identify Hardware
problems and Install Update(s) and patches of software. Install and commit
connections for the transversal systems (e.g. PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS). Desktop
and Technical Support Service in order for users to understand general IT
programs and functionality. Network Administration e.g. responsible for upkeep
and maintenance of LAN & WAN. Maintaining servers: Execute backups and
supporting information. Provide e-mail access and Internet access to ensure
effective communication.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Moshodi at 072 711 3848
POST 25/399 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: AC/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Glen (Disaster Management and Soil Conservation and Land Care)
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate or equivalent. No previous experience required.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organize, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Type letters
and / or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing document register of the component. Provide supply chain
clerical support services within the component. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain
quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office
items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register
of the component. Provide personnel administration clerical support services
within the component. Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and
maintain personnel records in the component. Arrange traveling and
accommodation. Keep and maintain the attendance register of the component.
Provide financial administration support services in the component. Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval. Handle
telephone accounts and petty cash.
ENQUIRIES : Disaster Management: Ms J Motaung at 060 978 3113
Soil Conservation and Landcare: Mr CTB Smith at 073 156 2740.
POST 25/400 : SECRETARY: VETERINARY SERVICES REF NO: SEC/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein (Veterinary Services)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with typing as a subject or any other training course / qualification
that will enable the person to perform the work satisfactorily. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial / receptionist support service to the manager. This will,
inter alia, entail the following: Receives telephone calls and refers the calls to
the correct role players if not meant for the relevant Manager. Records
appointments and events in the dairy of the manager. Type documents for the
manager and other staff within the unit on a word processor. Operated office
equipment like fax machines and photocopiers. Provides a clerical support
service to the manager. This will entail, inter alia, the following: Liaises with
travel agencies to make travel arrangements. Checks the arrangements when
the relevant documents are received. Arranges meetings and events for the
manager and the staff in the unit. Identifies venues, invites role players,
organises refreshments and sets up schedules for meetings and events.
Process the travel and subsistence claims for the unit. Processes all invoices
that emanate from the activities of the work of the manager. Records basic
minutes of the meetings of the manager where required. Daft routine
correspondence and reports. Do filing of documents for the manager and the
unit where required. Administer matters like the leave registers, attendance
registers and telephone account. Receives, records and distributes all
incoming and outgoing documents. Handles the procurement of standard items
like stationary, refreshments, etc. Collects all relevant documents to enable the
manager to prepare for meeting. Remains up to date with regard to prescripts
/ policies and procedures applicable to her / his work terrain to ensure efficient
and effective support to the manager. This would, inter alia, entail the following:
246
Studies the relevant Public Service and departmental prescripts / policies and
other documents to ensure that the application thereof is understood properly.
Remains abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of
the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Dr KJ Mojapelo at 072 711 1809
POST 25/401 : HR OFFICER REF NO: HRO/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Glen
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate or equivalent. No experience required.
DUTIES : Implement human resource administration practices: Recruitment and
Selection (Advertisements, Appointments, Transfer, verification of
qualifications, secretariat functions at interviews, absorptions, probationary
periods e.g.). Implement conditions of services (Leave, Housing, Medical,
Injury on Duty, Long Service Recognition, Overtime, Relocation, Pension,
Allowances, PILIR or etc.) Performance Management. Termination of service
(indicate the steps). Address human resource administration enquiries. Draft
letters, submission and other general HR related correspondence. Filing of HR
related documents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Lombaard at 060 301 3872
247
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT
The Department is an equal opportunity organisation and intends to promote equity through the filling of
these posts. Candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote the achievement of
employment equity within the Department will receive preference, in particular whites, Indians, the
persons with disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the above position, please submit your application online at
http://professionaljobcentre.gpg.gov.za or send an email @
GDENVrecruitment@gauteng.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026
NOTE : quoting the relevant reference number applications must be submitted on the
New Z.83 form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Applications with the OLD Z.83 form will
not be considered. A New Z.83 form must be fully completed, duly signed and
initialled by the applicant. A recent, comprehensive CV, specifying all
qualifications and experience, with respective dates must accompany the
application form. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application. Notes: Applications received
after the closing date will not be considered. Only shortlisted Candidates will
be required to submit certified copies of qualifications obtained and other
related documents on or before the day of the interview, following
communication from Human Resources and will be subjected to verification by
the South African Qualifications Authority. Candidates in possession of a
foreign qualification must also provide an evaluation certificate issued by the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at own expense. Failure to
submit the requested documents will result in the application not being
considered further. Due to the anticipated large volume of responses,
correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other will be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. After the pre-entry assessments, an oral interview will be
conducted. Suitable candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). By responding to the advertisement,
applicants consent to the collection, processing and storing of their Personal
Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA) Act No. 4 of 2013. Candidates will therefore be required to give
consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department to conduct the
verifications. Information will be used for the purpose of recruitment only and
more specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy you have applied for
and will not be shared with third parties without prior consent, unless required
by law. All applicants must declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest
and must disclose membership on Boards and directorships associated with.
If you have not been contacted within six (6) months of the closing date, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. The submitted CVs will be
destroyed as legislated in the National Archives Act. In the event that your
application is unsuccessful, the Department will retain your personal
information only for audit purposes as required by policies. All the information
requested now or during the process is required for recruitment purposes.
Failure to provide the requested information will result in your application not
being considered further. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment to the advertised post(s). The successful candidate must disclose
particulars of all registrable financial interests and sign an employment contract
within one month from the date of assumption of duty. A Performance
Agreement must be concluded and signed within three months from the date
of assumption of duty. Notes for applicants of SMS posts: Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government, available as an online course
on https://thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to the
finalisation of the appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
248
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. This post is being re-advertised. previous applicants are encouraged
to reapply.
OTHER POST
POST 25/402 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING MANAGEMENT: REF NO:
REFS/050125
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in Public Management &
Governance/ Public Administration as recognized by SAQA. 3 – 5 years’ middle
management relevant strategy and governance experience. Valid driver’s
license. Competences: Computer Literacy, excellent written and verbal
communication skills, report writing and analytical skills, project management,
people management, time management, presentation skills, innovative, team
player, organising and chairing meetings. Attributes: Innovative Team player
and flexible, Client Orientated, Quality orientated cost conscious, Influential,
strategic, Presentation skills, Communication skills, Analytical skills,
Leadership skills and report writing skills.
DUTIES : To manage the provision of research, strategic planning management and
policy coordination services. Responsible for monitoring the policy panel
process and representing the strategy function of the Gauteng Department of
Environment. Overall management of the integrated strategic planning
sessions for the Gauteng Department of Environment. To facilitate,
consolidate, compile and submit strategic information, provide administration
support in the development of the departmental strategic plan, assist in the
development of the strategic planning report templates and guidelines, aid with
regards to the development of operational plans as aligned to the departmental
strategy, facilitate and compile the departmental targets and compliance
process and reporting, provide support on the development and review of
operational and strategic policies in the Department and to develop and
maintain strategic planning framework. Periodic reviews of the submitted
departmental strategic plans, annual performance plans and operational plans
to ensure alignment with long-term goals and budgetary processes. Conduct
in-depth analysis of the provincial policy environment, national policies, and
legislation to prepare provincial responses and identify critical intervention
areas. Identify potential project risks and provide suggestions for mitigation
strategies. Provide the overall maintenance of departmental policy tracker and
associate training. Prepare detailed reports and presentations for SMT and
EMT. Responsible to ensure conducting of evaluations and coordinate the
development and maintenance of strategic policy frameworks. Responsible to
manage human and financial resources within the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Iris Thanjekwayo at 072 788 2364
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS AND TRANSPORT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below positions, please apply online at
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. For general enquiries please contact Human
Resource Tel No: (011) 355-7082/7043. Only online applications will be
considered.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026
NOTE : Applicants must utilise the most recent Z83 application form for employment,
issued by the Minister for the Public Service and Administration in line with
Regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016. All fields in the New
Z83 form must be completed, initialled and signed. Furthermore, a
comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) must also be attached. Failure to attach
the completed Z83 and Comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) will result in
disqualification. The New Z83 form is obtainable from any Public Service
Department or the DPSA website www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Only
shortlisted candidates who meet all the requirements of the post will be
requested to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
valid driver’s license (where driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the
job) not older than six (06) months. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
249
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. It is our intention to promote representation (race, gender and
disability) in the Public Service through the filling of posts and candidates
whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representation will receive
preference. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity through the filling
of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate
this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability status is
required. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The
Department reserves the right not to appoint. If you do not receive any
response from us within 3 months, please accept your application was
unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/403 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEMAND AND ACQUISITION REF NO: REFS/050353
Branch: Finance
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6)/ bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in Supply Chain
Management/ Purchasing Management/ Financial Management/ Cost
Accounting Management/ Logistics Management/ Public Management. 3-5
years' experience at Assistant Director level within Supply Chain Management.
Knowledge And Skills: GPG and GPDRT policies and procedures. Relevant
legislation and Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations, PPPFA and, BEE Act. Knowledge of
the national and provincial mandates. In-depth knowledge of the supply chain
management framework and other legislative prescripts that governs supply
chain management. Experience in MS Office (MS Excel, MS Word and MS
PowerPoint) and BAS, SAP and SRM. Knowledge of contract management
including management of SLAs. Understanding of National Small Business
Act, Service delivery innovation Programme, and project management.
Knowledge of grievance and disciplinary procedures. Must be a driven and
customer focused individual with excellent leadership, planning, organizing,
communication (verbal and written), interpersonal relations and conflict
management skills. Must have report writing, research, numerical and
analytical, presentation, decision making and management skills. Must be able
to work under pressure and have the ability to analyse and interpret financial
information. Must have the ability to interpret and present policies and other
prescripts. Excellent ability to facilitate workshops, give training and present
policies. Ability to interact at strategic level and implement turn-around
strategies. Service delivery orientated.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and review SCM policies, strategies, and procedures.
Develop, implement, and maintain Demand acquisition systems, policies,
strategies and procedures. Adhere to and promote legislative, departmental
prescripts and the code of conduct for the Public Service. Review supply chain
management policies yearly and align new legislation and National/Provincial
treasury regulations. Manage the functional operation of the demand and
acquisition management in the Department. Perform needs, expenditure
commodities and market analysis on past spend pattern, future needs and to
develop the procurement plan. Source goods and services in a fair, equitable,
transparent, competitive and cost-effective manner. Manage the Bid
specification and evaluate the process. Compile bid specification for each
competitive bid. Ensure that bids are evaluated in accordance with the
evaluation criteria set out in the bid document. Ensure that bid evaluations are
fair, equitable, competitive, transparent and cost effective. Manage the tender
process. Compile and distribute the tender documents in accordance with
departmental procedures. Administer the tender box. Manage relationships
between tender management and process areas in procurement of goods and
services. Management and overseeing the supplier database. Perform general
quality assurance information on the supplier database (CSD). Provide the
strategic leadership of the component. Manage performance and development
of the subordinates. Address poor performance of ary team member through
the formal performance management process. Serve on transverse task teams
as required. Quality control of work delivered employees.
250
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 -7521 / Ms. P. Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 –
7175
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given To Persons with Disabilities Coloured Females, Indian Females, White
Females candidates.
POST 25/404 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO: REFS/050352
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree (NQF Level 7) in Human Science/
Psychology/ Social Sciences (Social Work). Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa or South African Council for Social
Services Professions. 3-5 years’ experience within Employee Health and
Wellness Environment of which 2 years must be at a supervisory level.
Knowledge And Skills: Project management methodologies, Business
performance management and Community relations & Stakeholder
relationship management. Analytical thinking, Research, Computer utilization,
Policy formulation, Conflict management and financial management.
Adaptability during changes to meet departmental goals. Strategic
management and Change/diversity management. Knowledge of GPG and
DPSA policies and procedures, relevant legislation and Public Service
Regulations. Understanding of expectations of customers. Knowledge of SLAs.
Management information and knowledge of GPG political and executive
structures.
DUTIES : Develop and promote disease and chronic illnesses management
programmes. Manage and promote mental health and psychosomatic
illnesses. Manage injury on duty and incapacity due to ill health. Develop and
implement policies, procedures, guidelines and promote occupational health
education. Manage resources (Human / equipment/Assets). Conduct
awareness programmes on the functions and purpose of health surveillance
and the relevant laws and regulations. Develop and implement a toolkit for
Mental Health Promotion in the workplace which looks at practical steps for
addressing mental health. Measure the impact of programmes that reduce the
psychosocial and physical demands of the workplace that trigger stress.
Develop and implement strategies to reduce stigma and discrimination against
people living with mental diseases as well as the promotion of human rights
and wellness. Provide and promote utilization of counselling and support
services. Develop cost effective health care programmes to quantify Return on
investment ROI. Develop Departmental Health and Productivity Management
Policy and flexible policies that address work-life balance. Coordinate the
implementation of wellness programmes, projects and interventions. Manage
staff Plan, organize and control activities pertaining to the functions of the
programme Provide technical advice to management Evaluate and monitor
performance of employees to ensure achievement of strategic goals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011)355 -7521 / Ms. P. Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 –
7175
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with Disabilities Coloured Females, Indian Females, White
Females candidates.
POST 25/405 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: (HIV/AIDS, STI & TB) REF NO: REFS/050349
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree (NQF Level 7) in Human Science/
Social Sciences / HIV Management / Psychology / Social Behaviour Studies in
HIV. Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa or South
African Council for Social Services Professions. 3-5 years’ experience within
Employee Health and Wellness Environment of which 2 years must be at a
supervisory level. Knowledge And Skills: Project management methodologies,
Business performance management, Community relations & Stakeholder
relationship management. Analytical thinking, Research, Computer utilization,
Policy formulation, Conflict management and financial management.
Adaptability during changes to meet the departmental goals. Strategic
251
management and Change/diversity management. Knowledge of DPSA and
GPG policies and procedures. Relevant legislation and Public Service
Regulations. Understanding of expectations of customers. Knowledge of SLAs.
Management information knowledge of GPG political and executive structures.
DUTIES : Manage and promote HIV/AIDS, STI, & Tuberculosis (HAST) prevention.
Coordinate and implement the provision of treatment care and support on
HIV/AIDS, & Tuberculosis (HAST). Establish governance structures for
implementation and monitoring of HIV/AIDS, STI, & Tuberculosis (HAST).
Develop and implement policies, procedures and guidelines. Supervise
resources (Human/equipment/Asset). Monitor proper implementation of
budget by monitoring, projecting, and reporting expenditure. Develop, review,
and implement policies, procedures, guidelines to ensure compliance with
requirement of National Framework on HIV and AIDS. Establish e-health and
HIV/AIDS, STI, & Tuberculosis (HAST) Provide inputs and reports on the
Gauteng Provincial AIDS Council response to enable seamless reporting on
HIV/AIDS, STI, & Tuberculosis (HAST) interventions. Facilitate provision of
enabling environment for People living with HIV and AIDS to lead healthy and
productive life through access to ART programme and post Exposure
Prophylaxis (PEP), Management of TB & HIV coinfection and STI. Provide
access to HIV Counselling and Testing. Promote adherence to counselling and
regular HIV testing, including those with active TB disease. Develop and
implement interventions for reduction of vulnerability to HIV and TB infection
and all modes of HIV transmission Develop and implement evidence-based
HIV prevention strategies and improved behavioural change communication
(BCC).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 -7521)/ Ms. P. Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 –
7175
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with Disabilities Coloured Females, Indian Females, White
Females candidates.
POST 25/406 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: APPLICATIONS COUNTER REF NO:
REFS/050355 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Transport
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg and Tshwane
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) qualification
in Transportation Management / Licensing/ Law / Transport Economics / Public
Management / Administration Management. 3-5 years’ experience in the public
transport licensing or public transport environment. 2 years’ experience must
be at supervisory level. Knowledge And Skills: GPG and GPDRT policies and
procedures; relevant legislation which include the NLTA, the NLTA Amendment
Act and its Regulations, the PFMA and its regulations and Public Service
Regulations, understanding of expectations of customers, knowledge of SLAs.
Knowledge of GPG political and executive structures. Competency in
Customer relations, Stakeholder Relationship Management, Computer
utilisation, Financial Management, and Business Performance Management.
DUTIES : Monitor the receipt of applications for operating licenses from public transport
operators for the region. Check that the submitted applications have all the
required supporting documentation. Confirm that captured information on
applications and supporting documents is complete and accurate. Provide
information pertaining to the operating licensing cycle to stakeholders. Provide
public transport operators with the relevant information relating to public
transport operating licenses. Update relevant information on the systems
where necessary. Manage the verification of submitted applications manually
and through the relevant system(s). Confirm receipt and verification of
permits/operating license applications for all public passenger road transport.
Escalate applications suspected of having fraudulent documentation. Manage
records of all verified documentation. Adhere to all legislative frameworks
relating to processing of licenses. Liaise and consult with public transport
operators, commuters, and other government institutions. Participate in the
development of policies and standard operating procedures. Review and
update existing policies in response to regulatory changes and Public
Transport regulation. Monitor adherence to the implementation of policies.
Communicate the policy to relevant stakeholders, the business unit and the
department when required. To collate all relevant information, files and
252
documents from the Applications counter in the region. To ensure the proper
record keeping and control of all information, files and documents. Arrange for
the proper retrieval and storage of information, files and documents. Ensure
the proper maintenance of filing systems (electronic and manual). Ensure the
correct placement and safe keeping of information, files and documents.
Provide coaching, disciplinary and mentoring of staff to improve performance.
Monitor the performance of staff and ensure assessment of their performance.
Manage resources to ensure effective service. Implement sound management
of human resources within the component. Perform daily supervision of the
section. Facilitate and encourage staff development to meet the changing
demands of the job. Support implementation of employee wellness program
and support where needed. Manage leave of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Elvis Mpateni/ Ms. Keorapetse Gumata Tel No: (011) 355 -7521/9000
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with Disabilities, Coloured Males, Indian Males, White Males,
Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Females candidates.
POST 25/407 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR5): LITIGATION SERVICES REF
NO: REFS/050351
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R483 219 – R1 155 777 per annum. The offer is based on recognition of
experience. (Proof of recognized experience will be requested only to the
shortlisted candidates).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : LLB Degree (NQF Level 8). At least 14 years appropriate post qualification
legal experience. Admitted Attorney or Advocate in the High Court of South
Africa. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge and experience in research; Good
communication skills (written and verbal); Ability to work under pressure and
solve problems; Good office administration, planning and organizing;
Computer literacy. Knowledge of Administrative and Constitutional Law,
Legislation and Regulations relevant to the Public Service, Legal drafting and
interpretation. Knowledge of court procedures; Experience in the management
of litigation.
DUTIES : Draft, review and amend legal policies for the Department. Deal with litigation
on behalf of the Department through the state attorney. Investigate and compile
relevant documents to the state attorney. Liaise with the State Attorney’s office,
State Law Advisors and Counsel. Conduct Research on the cases at hand, to
establish liability. Giving instruction to the state attorney during court
proceedings. Compilation of evidence from staff and management. Manage
the cases referred to the state attorney with regard to dates and ensure court
appearance by officials and avoid prescription. Provide assistant to the state
attorney to prepare briefs to advocates were necessary. Verify correctness of
invoice for payment to the State Attorney. Conduct Research and Advice on
Legal Problems and Proceedings regarding the Department. Update litigation
management system. Investigate and compile relevant documents for the court
proceedings. Verify accuracy of documents and compliance with court rules
and deadlines. Provide assistance to the state attorney during the court
proceedings. Compile court records. Appear in court, lead evidence and
present legal arguments. Determine and deliver persuasive legal arguments to
a judge or magistrate. Interpret and apply the law to the specific facts of the
case to support the departments cases. Conduct a data inventory to identify
what personal information is processed, where it is stored, and who it is shared
with. Implement data protection policies and procedures, including
comprehensive privacy notice, data retention schedules and secure
destruction processes. Implement appropriate security safeguards to protect
personal information from unauthorised access, loss and damage. Establish
an incident response plan for data breaches. Compile and publish a PAIA
manual detailing the department’s structure, functions, available records and
the procedure for requesting information. Manage requests for information in
accordance with the prescribed procedures and forms, responding with
stipulated timeframes. Establish internal appeal procedures for requesters
dissatisfied with the decisions (mandatory for public bodies). Adhere to the
code of good administrative conduct and integrate PAJA requirements into all
administrative decision-making processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 -7521, Ms. P. Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 –
7175
253
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with Disabilities Coloured Females, Indian Females, White
Females candidates.
POST 25/408 : LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER (MR5): LEGAL OPINION REF NO: REFS/050350
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R483 219 - R1 155 777 per annum. The offer is based on recognition of
experience. (Proof of recognized experience will be requested only to the
shortlisted candidates).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : LLB (NQF Level 8). At least 14 years' post graduate legal experience. Admitted
Attorney or Advocate in the High Court of South Africa. At least 8 years' post
qualification experience in the provision of legal services. Admitted Attorney or
Advocate in the High Court of South Africa. Knowledge And Skills:
Communications skills, Computer literacy, Interpersonal skills, Negotiation
skills Problem solving and Ability to work with the team Ability to work under
pressure. Leadership, Decision Making, Planning Organization, Report writing,
Presentation. Change Management Planning and organizing Strategy, Policy
Development, Project Management, People Oriented Financial Management
Research Conduct, analyses, interpret, advise and mentor junior on research.
DUTIES : Provide sound legal opinion to the department, Draft legal opinions for the
department, Represent the department during legal proceedings, Provide
general legal support and PAIA, PAJA and POPIA compliance. Conduct a data
inventory to identify what personal information is processed, where it is stored,
and who it is shared with. Implement data protection policies and procedures,
including comprehensive privacy notice, data retention schedules and secure
destruction processes. Appear in court, lead evidence and present legal
arguments. Determine and deliver persuasive legal arguments to a judge or
magistrate. administer legal advice/opinion in the Department research the
applicability of legal principles on legal Opinion formulate questions to be
answered on legal Opinions, study and cite relevant cases on aspects related
to legal Opinions, respond to legal opinion aspects that arise during public
hearing and parliamentary sessions, consult with relevant line function Advice
on settlement to avoid unnecessary legal costs. Research on latest update of
legal developments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 -7521, Ms. P. Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 –
7175
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with Disabilities Coloured Females, Indian Females, White
Females candidates.
254
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY AND LIAISON
APPLICATIONS : must be posted to: The Director-General, KwaZulu-Natal Office of the Premier,
Private Bag X9037, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or hand delivered to: The Chief
Director: Strategic Human Resource Management, Office of the Premier, 1st
Floor, Invesco Centre, 16 Chatterton Road, Pietermaritzburg, 3201 and marked
for the attention of Ms T.W. Zulu.
“Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-
Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applicants can submit
their Z83 and CV directly to the following email address
recruitment@kznpremier.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026
NOTE : Applications submitted electronically will be taken as a final application and
may not be amended or supplemented in any way after the closing date
indicated in the advertisement. If you have not been contacted within three (3)
months after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Government
reserves the right not to make this appointment. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Failure to comply with the above instructions
will result in the disqualification of your application. NB: All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts
will be subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical
exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo
psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural
preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. Following the interview and
technical assessment, candidates recommended for appointment at the SMS
level will be required to produce a Pre-entry certificate for the course offered
by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to their appointment. The
course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the link:
https://www/thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/smspre-entryprogramme. All SMS
posts have been identified to target females and people with disabilities in order
to achieve the 50% and 2% targets respectively, in line with National Cabinet
Directive. The successful candidate will be required to undergo security
clearance and to disclose financial interests in accordance with the regulations.
The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Government is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer and preference will be given to suitably qualified candidates
from designated groups in terms of Employment Equity Act, 1998. The
Department reserves the right not to make these appointments.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 25/409 : HEAD OF DEPARTMENT REF NO: DCSL/HOD/07/2026
(5 Year Fixed-term contract)
SALARY : R1 885 710 per annum (Level 15), (Inclusive remuneration package), plus a
10% non-pensionable Head of Department allowance. The inclusive
remuneration package includes a 30% portion which may be structured
according to the individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Head Office – Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a qualification at (NQF level 8) in LLB/
Criminology / Public Administration / Social Sciences as recognized by SAQA.
Minimum of 10 years relevant experience at a senior management level.
Computer Literacy Valid driver’s license. Knowledge and Skills: Strong
strategic capabilities as well as leadership Significant managerial capability
and experience in providing strategic leadership and direction in the sector.
Extensive knowledge and understanding of national and provincial legislation
Sound knowledge and understanding of all policies affecting the Department
of Community Safety and Liaison Ability to engage leaders in government,
businesses and labour at high level Experience in working with organized
255
labour and unions Facilitation and organizing skills Good negotiation skills
Experience in running an organization as well as interacting with senior
officials/human resources within and outside the Public Sector Extensive
knowledge and understanding of the Constitution of South Africa, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations act, Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations Knowledge, interpretation and
Application of all Legislative Framework/ Policies Project Management Skills
Financial Management Skills Strategic Management Skills and Planning Skills
People Management and empowerment skills Analytical, creative and
innovative thinking skills.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction and perform all functions attached to the Head of
Department of Community Safety and Liaison in terms of the Public Service
Act, 1994 as amended and Public Service Regulations, 2016. Ensure the
effectiveness and efficiency of line function components dealing with the
monitoring of police service delivery, the evaluation of complaints received
about the police, social crime prevention and research, community policing,
and victim empowerment and special inter-sectoral projects Formulate and
ensure the implementation of policies, procedures, strategies and projects,
including the determination and provision of training and development
programmes within and external to the Department which will enable the
Department to successfully fulfil its role in providing an effective and efficient
service at all times The management of all resources, including human
resources under his/her supervision in order to deliver on core functions
Exercising of control of the utilisation of the KZN Department of Community
Safety and Liaison in terms of prescribed Acts and Regulations to ensure the
efficient and effective delivery of services to the people of the Province Provide
expert advice to the Premier as the Executive Authority on a regular basis
regarding all matters pertaining to the Department and legal support and
security services as stipulated in the SAPS Act and MISS document Provide
effective and efficient administrative systems The overall management of the
rendering of efficient and professional departmental services to functionaries
within Department and the general public with particular emphasis on service
delivery within the Province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.G. Khanyile, Director-General Tel No: (033) 307 0260
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
APPLICATIONS : must be posted to: The Head of Department, KwaZulu-Natal Department of
Human Settlements, Private Bag X54367, Durban, 4000 or hand delivered to:
The Acting Director: Human Resource Management and Development,
Department of Human Settlements, Ground Floor, Murchison Passage, 353-
363 Dr Pixley ka Seme Street, Durban, 4001. Applicants are encouraged to
apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mr. TW Khalishwayo
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026
NOTE : Directions to applicants: Applicants using the manual application process must
ensure that the new Z83 application form (obtainable from any Public Service
institution) is completed, duly signed and initialed as failure to do so may lead
to disqualification of the application during the selection process. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from Human Resources. Applicants are
discouraged from sending applications through registered mail because the
Department will not be responsible for non-collection of these applications. No
late applications will be accepted. Applications submitted electronically will be
taken as a final application and may not be amended or supplemented in any
way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Failure to comply with the above instructions
will result in the disqualification of your application. NB: All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
will be practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements and other must be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be
256
subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical
exercise and the interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will
undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities,
behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. The KwaZulu-
Natal Provincial Government is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to suitably qualified candidates from
designated groups in terms of Employment Equity Act, 1998. The Department
reserves the right not to make these appointment/s. Note: Applications not
submitted on the fully completed new Z83 application forms will not considered.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 25/410 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: HUMAN SETTLEMENTS PLANNING AND
STAKEHOLDER FACILITATION REF NO: CD-HSP: 07/2026
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of appropriate bachelor’s Degree at NQF 7
as recognized by SAQA, coupled with a minimum of 5 years relevant
experience at senior management level or executive level in planning and
development environment or construction/ building environment. Ability to
interact at all levels including Executive, Strategic and Operational levels. Must
have minimum entry requirement certificate to SMS (i.e. Nyukela) submitted
prior to appointment. A valid driver’s licence is required. All shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by
the Department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection
panel will recommend candidates to attend generic managerial competency
assessments (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tool. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of SA, Knowledge of Housing
Act and Housing Code of 2009, Knowledge of Public Service Act, Knowledge
of PFMA, Knowledge of National Development Plan chapter 8, Knowledge of
Building Norms and Standards, Knowledge of NHBRC, Knowledge of Public
Service Regulations 2016 as amended, Knowledge of Human Resource
prescripts, Knowledge of Labour Relations Act, Knowledge of Legislations,
Knowledge of Legal Interpretation, Knowledge of BBE Acts, Knowledge of
Treasury Regulations and guideline, In-deep knowledge of Procurement
policies, In-deep knowledge of Procurement Acts, The basic Accounting
System (BAS) and LOGIS as well as the Departmental Reporting Framework
Guide, Knowledge of White Paper on Human Settlements, Knowledge of
Provincial Growth and Development Plan, Strategic Capability and Leadership
skills, People management and empowerment skills, Project and Programme
management skills, Change management skills, Knowledge management
skills, Financial Management skills, Computer literacy skills, Time
management skills, Analytical skills, Language skills, Time management skills,
Facilitation skills, Communication skills, Conflict management skills,
Presentation skills, Negotiating skills, Decision making skills, Chairing
meetings, Driving skills, Service oriented, Ability to work under pressure,
Flexibility to work extra hours, Team oriented, Quick thinker, Honest, Integrity,
Punctuality.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following Key Performance Areas:
Oversee the development , reviewal and facilitate the implementation of human
settlements policies, undertake research and knowledge management
Oversee the provision of stakeholder engagement and capacity development
in the province; Oversee the provision and facilitate integral spatial planning
for sustainable human settlements in order to achieve liveable and sustainable
spaces; Manage the implementation of sector transformation and expanded
public works programmes; Manage effective utilization of resources of the
Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : related to the post can be directed to: Mr. SM Mbili Tel No: (031) 392 6434 /
031 336 5347.
257
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/411 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER GRADE A-B (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 317 108 – R2 484 204 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Amajuba District Ref No: CCPM: AD 07/ 2026 (X1 Post)
eThekwini District Ref No: CCPM: ETH 07/2026 (X2 Posts)
iLembe District Ref No: CCPM: IL 07/2026 (X1 Post)
uGu District Ref No: CCPM: UD 07/2026 (X1 Post)
uMkhanyakude District Ref No: CCPM: UMK 07/2026 (X1 Post)
uMzinyathi District Ref No: CCPM: UMZ 07/2026 (X1 Post)
Zululand District Ref No: CCPM: ZD 07/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : National higher diploma (Built Environment field) B Tech in Built environment
field. Honors degree in any Built Environment field. with a minimum of 6 years’
experience as a registered Professional Construction Project Manager with the
SACPCMP. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of Programme and project Management, Knowledge of Project
management skills, principles and methodologies; Knowledge of Project and
professional judgement, Computer-aided engineering and project applications,
Knowledge of Project design and analysis knowledge, Knowledge of Project
operational communication, Knowledge of Process knowledge and skills
Maintenance skills and knowledge, Knowledge of Legal and operational
compliance, Knowledge of Research and development, creating high
performance culture, Technical Consulting, Professional Judgment PFMA,
Knowledge of MFMA, Knowledge of National Housing Code, Knowledge of
Breaking New Ground, Knowledge of Land Administrative Act, Knowledge of
Sectional Act, Knowledge of Law of Contracts, Knowledge of Promotion of
Access to Information Act, Knowledge of Human Resource Prescripts, Working
knowledge of the Public Services. Decision making skills, Team leadership
skills, Analytical skills, Creativity, Self-management, Financial Management
skills, Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication skills, Computer
literacy, Planning and organizing skills, Conflict management, Problem solving
and people management, Change management skills, Innovation skills,
Strategic planning skills, Project management skills, Time management skills,
Presentation skills, Negotiation skills, Analytical skills, Decision making skills,
Motivation skills, Listening skills, Influencing skills, Innovative, Independent,
Time frame driven, Confidentiality, Proactive, Honesty, Integrity, Reliability,
Patience, Commitment, Professionalism, Culturally sensitive, Perseverance,
Punctual.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following Key Performance Areas:
Project design and analysis effectiveness: Perform final review and approvals
or audits on project designs according to design principles or theory;
Coordinate design efforts and integration across disciplines to ensure
seamless integration with current technology; Maintain project operational
effectiveness: Manage the execution of project management strategy through
the provisioning of appropriate structures, systems and resources; Financial
Management: Ensure the availability and management of funds to meet the
MTEF objectives within the project environment/services; Manage the
operational project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing
according to organizational needs and objectives; Governance: Allocate,
monitor and control resources; Compiles list of reasons for variances &
interventions and manages significant risk according to sound risk
management practice and organizational requirements; People management:
Direct the development motivation and utilization of human resources for the
discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of
project services according to organizational needs and requirements; Manage
subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitor performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental
objectives.
ENQUIRIES : related to the post can be directed to: Mr TE Magagula Tel No: (031) 336 5223
/ 031 336 5245.
POST 25/412 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER GRADE A-B: PROPERTY
MAINTANANCE AND REHABILITATION REF NO: CCPM: PMR 07/2026 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R1 317 108 – R2 484 204 per annum, (OSD)
258
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : National higher diploma (Built Environment field) B Tech in Built environment
field. Honors degree in any Built Environment field. with a minimum of 6 years’
experience as a registered Professional Construction Project Manager with the
SACPCMP. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of Programme and project Management, Knowledge of Project
management skills, principles and methodologies; Knowledge of Project and
professional judgement, Computer-aided engineering and project applications,
Knowledge of Project design and analysis knowledge, Knowledge of Project
operational communication, Knowledge of Process knowledge and skills
Maintenance skills and knowledge, Knowledge of Legal and operational
compliance, Knowledge of Research and development, creating high
performance culture, Technical Consulting, Professional Judgment PFMA,
Knowledge of MFMA, Knowledge of National Housing Code, Knowledge of
Breaking New Ground, Knowledge of Land Administrative Act, Knowledge of
Sectional Act, Knowledge of Law of Contracts, Knowledge of Promotion of
Access to Information Act, Knowledge of Human Resource Prescripts, Working
knowledge of the Public Services. Decision making skills, Team leadership
skills, Analytical skills, Creativity, Self-management, Financial Management
skills, Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication skills, Computer
literacy, Planning and organizing skills, Conflict management, Problem solving
and people management, Change management skills, Innovation skills,
Strategic planning skills, Project management skills, Time management skills,
Presentation skills, Negotiation skills, Analytical skills, Decision making skills,
Motivation skills, Listening skills, Influencing skills, Innovative, Independent,
Time frame driven, Confidentiality, Proactive, Honesty, Integrity, Reliability,
Patience, Commitment, Professionalism, Culturally sensitive, Perseverance,
Punctual.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following Key Performance Areas:
Project design and analysis effectiveness: - perform final review and approvals
or audits on project designs according to design principles or theory;
Coordinate design efforts and integration across disciplines to ensure
seamless integration with current technology; Maintain project operational
effectiveness: - Manage the execution of project management strategy through
the provisioning of appropriate structures, systems and resources; Financial
Management: -Ensure the availability and management of funds to meet the
MTEF objectives within the project environment/services; Manage the
operational project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing
according to organizational needs and objectives; Governance: Allocate,
monitor and control resources; Compiles list of reasons for variances &
interventions and manages significant risk according to sound risk
management practice and organizational requirements; People management:
Direct the development motivation and utilization of human resources for the
discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of
project services according to organizational needs and requirements; Manage
subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitor performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental
objectives.
ENQUIRIES : related to the post can be directed to: Mr TE Magagula Tel No: (031) 336 5223
/ 031 336 5245.
POST 25/413 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER GRADE A-B: SOCIAL
HOUSING AND CRU REF NO: CCPM: SHCRU 07/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 317 108 – R2 484 204 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : National higher diploma (Built Environment field) B Tech in Built environment
field. Honors degree in any Built Environment field. with a minimum of 6 years’
experience as a registered Professional Construction Project Manager with the
SACPCMP. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of Programme and project Management, Knowledge of Project
management skills, principles and methodologies; Knowledge of Project and
professional judgement, Computer-aided engineering and project applications,
Knowledge of Project design and analysis knowledge, Knowledge of Project
operational communication, Knowledge of Process knowledge and skills
Maintenance skills and knowledge, Knowledge of Legal and operational
compliance, Knowledge of Research and development, creating high
259
performance culture, Technical Consulting, Professional Judgment PFMA,
Knowledge of MFMA, Knowledge of National Housing Code, Knowledge of
Breaking New Ground, Knowledge of Land Administrative Act, Knowledge of
Sectional Act, Knowledge of Law of Contracts, Knowledge of Promotion of
Access to Information Act, Knowledge of Human Resource Prescripts, Working
knowledge of the Public Services. Decision making skills, Team leadership
skills, Analytical skills, Creativity, Self-management, Financial Management
skills, Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication skills, Computer
literacy, Planning and organizing skills, Conflict management, Problem solving
and people management, Change management skills, Innovation skills,
Strategic planning skills, Project management skills, Time management skills,
Presentation skills, Negotiation skills, Analytical skills, Decision making skills,
Motivation skills, Listening skills, Influencing skills, Innovative, Independent,
Time frame driven, Confidentiality, Proactive, Honesty, Integrity, Reliability,
Patience, Commitment, Professionalism, Culturally sensitive, Perseverance,
Punctual.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following Key Performance Areas:
Project design and analysis effectiveness: - perform final review and approvals
or audits on project designs according to design principles or theory;
Coordinate design efforts and integration across disciplines to ensure
seamless integration with current technology; Maintain project operational
effectiveness: - Manage the execution of project management strategy through
the provisioning of appropriate structures, systems and resources; Financial
Management: -Ensure the availability and management of funds to meet the
MTEF objectives within the project environment/services; Manage the
operational project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing
according to organizational needs and objectives; Governance: - Allocate,
monitor and control resources; Compiles list of reasons for variances &
interventions and manages significant risk according to sound risk
management practice and organizational requirements; People management:
Direct the development motivation and utilization of human resources for the
discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of
project services according to organizational needs and requirements; Manage
subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitor performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental
objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TE Magagula Tel No: (031) 336 5223 / 031 336 5245
POST 25/414 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER GRADE A-B: MIDDLE
INCOME AND GAP MARKET REF NO: CCPM: MIGM 08/2026 (X1 POST)
(3-year contract)
SALARY : R1 317 108 – R2 484 204 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : National higher diploma (Built Environment field) B Tech in Built environment
field. Honors degree in any Built Environment field. with a minimum of 6 years’
experience as a registered Professional Construction Project Manager with the
SACPCMP. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of Programme and project Management, Knowledge of Project
management skills, principles and methodologies; Knowledge of Project and
professional judgement, Computer-aided engineering and project applications,
Knowledge of Project design and analysis knowledge, Knowledge of Project
operational communication, Knowledge of Process knowledge and skills
Maintenance skills and knowledge, Knowledge of Legal and operational
compliance, Knowledge of Research and development, creating high
performance culture, Technical Consulting, Professional Judgment PFMA,
Knowledge of MFMA, Knowledge of National Housing Code, Knowledge of
Breaking New Ground, Knowledge of Land Administrative Act, Knowledge of
Sectional Act, Knowledge of Law of Contracts, Knowledge of Promotion of
Access to Information Act, Knowledge of Human Resource Prescripts, Working
knowledge of the Public Services. Decision making skills, Team leadership
skills, Analytical skills, Creativity, Self-management, Financial Management
skills, Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication skills, Computer
literacy, Planning and organizing skills, Conflict management, Problem solving
and people management, Change management skills, Innovation skills,
Strategic planning skills, Project management skills, Time management skills,
Presentation skills, Negotiation skills, Analytical skills, Decision making skills,
260
Motivation skills, Listening skills, Influencing skills, Innovative, Independent,
Time frame driven, Confidentiality, Proactive, Honesty, Integrity, Reliability,
Patience, Commitment, Professionalism, Culturally sensitive, Perseverance,
Punctual.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following Key Performance Areas:
Project design and analysis effectiveness: perform final review and approvals
or audits on project designs according to design principles or theory;
Coordinate design efforts and integration across disciplines to ensure
seamless integration with current technology; Maintain project operational
effectiveness: - Manage the execution of project management strategy through
the provisioning of appropriate structures, systems and resources; Financial
Management: - Ensure the availability and management of funds to meet the
MTEF objectives within the project environment/services; Manage the
operational project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing
according to organizational needs and objectives; Governance: Allocate,
monitor and control resources; Compiles list of reasons for variances &
interventions and manages significant risk according to sound risk
management practice and organizational requirements; People management:
Direct the development motivation and utilization of human resources for the
discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of
project services according to organizational needs and requirements; Manage
subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitor performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental
objectives.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries related to the post can be directed to: Mr TE Magagula Tel No: (031)
336 5223 / 031 336 5245.
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Direct or hand deliver applications for all advertised posts to the address as
indicated below: -Head Office: Department of Social Development, Private Bag
X9144, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or hand deliver to 174 Mayors Walk Road,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR apply online using https://www.eservices.gov.za
(Sthesha Waya Waya).
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs. PN Mkhize
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026
NOTE : The content of this circular must without delay be brought to the attention of all
potential applicants. Applications must be forwarded to the relevant address.
Applications must indicate the reference number of the post applied for and the
Centre using a new Z83 form (which must be completed in a manner that allows
a selection committee to assess the quality of the candidate based on the
information provided in the form. It is therefore prudent that fields be completed
by applicants and the form must be signed noting the importance of the
declaration) which is effective from 01 January 2021 obtainable from any Public
Service Department and should be accompanied by a detailed/comprehensive
Curriculum Vitae. NB: Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit the
fully completed Z83 and a detailed curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the date
of the interview following communication from Human Resources. The
Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action employer and is
committed to empowering people with disabilities. Appointment is subject to a
positive outcome obtained on the following Personnel Suitability Checks
(Security Clearance, Citizenship, qualification verification, criminal records,
credit records and previous employment). The employment is subject to
signing the employment contract, annual performance agreement and to
disclose financial interests in accordance with relevant prescripts. Successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela
certificate) is required before the appointment can be made. Enrolment for the
course should be made on the NSG’s website at
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence and
integrity. Other shortlisted candidates, including SMS will undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
261
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment and Failure to comply with
any of the above instructions will result in immediate disqualification. If the
applicant has not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date
must accept that his / her application was not successful. Regrettably due to
excessive budget cuts the Department is not in a position to meet any travel
and subsistence costs relating to the recruitment process for the shortlisted
candidates. It is regretted that due to large volumes of applications anticipated
to be received, it is not possible for the Department to acknowledge receipt of
the same and that only those applicants that participate in the final selection
processes (interviews) will be notified of the outcome.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 25/415 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: DSD01/07/2026HO
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Law (LLB); A valid driver’s
license. Admitted as an Attorney or Advocate. A minimum of 5 years of
experience at a middle/senior management in Legal environment. Knowledge:
- Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Interpretation of laws
(constitutional and statutory interpretation), Legal drafting and writing,
Litigation management, including alternative dispute resolution, Legal research
methodology, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Treasury
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations,
Employee Performance Management and Development System Skills/ Core
Competences: Strategic capability and leadership, People management and
empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management, Programme
and Project Management, Knowledge Management, Service delivery
innovation, Problem solving and analysis, Client orientation and customer
focus, Communication, Research, Presentation, Facilitation, Language, Policy
analysis, Driving, Computer literacy, Numeracy.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of contract drafting, editing and vetting services; Manage
the provision of legislative review and legal compliance management; Manage
the provision of litigation services; Manage the development and
implementation of policies; Manage the resources of the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VW Gumede Tel No: (033) 341 3579
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/416 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: CHILDREN & FAMILIES (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 009 512 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : eThekwini North District Ref No: DSD02/07/2026ETh North
eThekwini South District Ref No: DSD03/07/2026ETh South
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Social Work. Registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Professions as a Social
Worker. Only Shortlisted candidates will submit proof of current registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Profession as a Social
Worker. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 10 years’ experience in Social
Work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP. Knowledge:
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Labou Relations Act, Research Methodology, Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Employee Performance Management
and Development System, Expert skills to challenge structural sources of
poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and exclusion, Expert
knowledge and understanding of human behaviour and social systems and
skills to intervene at the points where people interact with their environment in
order to promote social wellbeing, The understanding and ability to provide
complex social work services towards protecting people who are vulnerable,
at-risk and unable to protect themselves, The ability and competence to assist
and empower individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities to
enhance their social functioning and their problem solving capabilities, prevent
and alleviate distress and use resources effectively in cases where expert
knowledge is required Skills: Communication, Language, Interpersonal,
Computer, Research, Problem Solving, Advanced Report writing, Conflict
262
management, Time Management, Advanced welfare counselling, Analytical
thinking, Presentation skills, Financial Management, Numeracy, Driving.
DUTIES : Provide a social work service of the highest, most advanced and specialized
nature within (a) defined area(s) of specialization nature within (a) defined
area(s) of specialization with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes in partnership with stakeholders. Attend to
any other matters that could result in or stem from, social instability in any form.
Facilitate the development and planning of programmes and interventions to
render a social work service through the efficient, economical and effective
utilization of financial resources. Manage a social work unit to ensure that an
efficient and effective social work service is delivered through the efficient and
effective utilization of human resources; Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work field to enhance service delivery. Plan and
ensure that social work research and development are undertaken. Keep up to
date with new developments in the social work field to enhance service
delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms RM Ntombela, eThekwini North District Tel No: (031) 336 8776
Ms NC Gebashe, eThekwini South District Tel No: (031) 336 8787
POST 25/417 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: RESTORATIVE SERVICES REF NO:
DSD04/07/2026ETH SOUTH
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 009 512 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : eThekwini South District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Social Work. Registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Professions as a Social
Worker. Only Shortlisted candidates will submit proof of current registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Profession as a Social
Worker. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 10 years’ experience in Social
Work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP. Knowledge:
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Labou Relations Act, Research Methodology, Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Employee Performance Management
and Development System, Expert skills to challenge structural sources of
poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and exclusion, Expert
knowledge and understanding of human behaviour and social systems and
skills to intervene at the points where people interact with their environment in
order to promote social well being, The understanding and ability to provide
complex social work services towards protecting people who are vulnerable,
at-risk and unable to protect themselves, The ability and competence to assist
and empower individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities to
enhance their social functioning and their problem solving capabilities, prevent
and alleviate distress and use resources effectively in cases where expert
knowledge is required. Skills: Communication, Listening, Interpersonal,
Computer, Research, Problem Solving, Advanced Report writing, Conflict
management, Time Management, Advanced welfare counselling, Analytical
thinking, Presentation, Financial Management, Numeracy, Driving.
DUTIES : Provide a social work service of the highest, most advanced and specialized
nature within (a) defined area(s) of specialization nature within (a) defined
area(s) of specialization with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes in partnership with stakeholders. Attend to
any other matters that could result in or stem from, social instability in any form.
Facilitate the development and planning of programmes and interventions to
render a social work service through the efficient, economical and effective
utilization of financial resources. Manage a social work unit to ensure that an
efficient and effective social work service is delivered through the efficient and
effective utilization of human resources; Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work field to enhance service delivery. Plan and
ensure that social work research and development are undertaken. Keep up to
date with new developments in the social work field to enhance service
delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NC Gebashe: eThekwini South District Tel No: (031) 336 8787
263
POST 25/418 : MANAGER: SOCIAL WORK POLICY: PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES REF
NO: DSD05/07/2026HO
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 009 512 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Social Work. Registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Professions as a Social
Worker. Only Shortlisted candidates will submit proof of current registration
with the South African Council for Social Services Profession as a Social
Worker. A valid driver’s license. A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience
in Social Work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP of which
five (5) years must be appropriate in Social Work Policy Development and
disability sector environment. Knowledge: Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Finance
Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Professional counselling, Knowledge
of Disabilities, National and International Disability Policy Framework,
Understanding of the Social Model of Disability Mainstreaming, Research
Methodology, Service Delivery frameworks, Policy development and analysis,
Ability to compile complex reports, Non – Profit Organizations Act, Labor
Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Procurement Act, Employee Performance Management Development System,
Skills: Change management, counselling, Problem solving and analysis,
Report writing, Policy Development, Planning and organizing, Communication,
Financial management, Research, Networking, Presentation, Facilitation,
Monitoring and evaluation, People management, Programme and Project
Management, Driving, Language, Computer literacy, Numeracy.
DUTIES : Keep up to date with new developments in persons with disabilities field; Plan
and ensure that persons with disabilities policy research and development are
undertaken; Develop policies and strategies relevant to persons with
disabilities; Manage resources of the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RS Byroo Tel No: (033) 264 5621
POST 25/419 : MANAGER: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DSD06/07/2026ETH
SOUTH
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 009 512 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : eThekwini South District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Bachelor’s Degree in Community Development/ Development
Studies/ Social Sciences. A minimum of 10 years recognizable experience in
Community Development after obtaining the required qualification of which 5
years must be appropriate experience in community policy development. A
valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Constitution for the Republic of South Africa,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations as amended as amended,
Labour Relations Act, Research Methodology, Public Finance Management
Act, Treasury Regulations, Employee Performance Management and
Development System, National Development Plan, Provincial Growth and
Development Plan, Knowledge of legislation for local government, Knowledge
of Integrated Development Planning, Expert knowledge on theories and
systems, skills, attitudes and values in community development to guide
employees on its application, Expert knowledge and in depth understanding of
individual and group behaviour, its inter-relations within community structures,
dynamics of the community and current legislation to enable interventions,
Ability and competence to develop community development policies and
strategies. Ability to influence individuals and groups to participate in their own
self-empowerment ventures, Ability to undertake complex research, Ability to
compile complex reports, Skills/Core Competencies: Inter-sectoral
collaboration and partnership, Intergovernmental relations, Planning and
organizing, Networking, Communication (written and verbal), Professional
counselling, Policy development and analysis, Financial management,
Presentation, Facilitation, Problem solving, Project management, Staff
management, Time management, Language, Computer literacy, Numeracy
skills.
DUTIES : Manage the identification, facilitation and implementation of integrated
development interventions in partnership with the community and other
relevant stakeholders through the efficient, effective and economical utilization
of resources by the unit/sub directorate; Monitor, interpret and review
legislation and policies to determine whether the legislation and policies are
264
still relevant and comply with current requirements; Develop proposals to
amend/maintain the relevant acts and policies and develop new policies where
required; Manage a community development unit/sub-directorate to ensure
that an efficient and effective community development service is delivered
through the proper utilization of human, financial and physical resources; Keep
up to date with new developments in the community development and
management fields to enhance service delivery; Plan and ensure that research
on community development is undertaken.
ENQUIRES : Ms NC Gebashe: eThekwini South District Tel No: (031) 336 8787
POST 25/420 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : KwaDukuza Service Office Ref No: DSD11/07/2026KwaDukuza
Mandeni Service Office Ref No: DSD12/07/2026Mandeni
Newlands Substance Abuse Treatment and Rehabilitation Centre Ref No:
DSD13/07/2026Newlands
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Grade 12/Matric Knowledge: Knowledge of clerical studies,
practice as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting
statistics, Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service, Knowledge of working procedures in terms the
working environment Skills: Communication, Interpersonal relations,
Teamwork, Computer literacy, Numeracy, Language, Supervisory.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services; Provide supply chain support
services within the component; Provide personnel administration support
services within the component; Provide financial administration support
services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Singh: KwaDukuza and Mandeni Service Office Tel No: (032) 437 7112
Mr MG Nzama: Newlands Substance Abuse Treatment and Rehabilitation
Centre Tel No: (031) 336 8865
POST 25/421 : LAUNDRY AID REF NO: DSD14/07/2026NEWLANDS
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Newlands Substance Abuse Treatment and Rehabilitation Centre:
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: ABET level 2. Knowledge: Basic Health and safety standards,
Basic hygiene standards, Batho-Pele Principles, Code of Conduct, Ability to
operate elementary machines and equipment Skills: Communication,
Interpersonal Relations, Basic numeracy, Basic literacy.
DUTIES : Collect, sort, count and record all clean, soiled linen and service users clothing
in terms of laundry prescripts; Laundering of all laundry, linen and service
user’s clothing; Perform regular stocktaking of all linen in the Facility and report
linen in need of repair to the Supervisor; Clean and tidy linen room.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MG Nzama Tel No: (031) 336 8865
265
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, ROADS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applicants should apply through the following website
http://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za. The application on the eRecruitment
system should be accompanied by the new Z83 and recent comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
duration/dates). Failure to attach required documents will result in the
application not being considered/disqualified
Applications may also be hand delivered/posted to: Department of Public
Works, Roads and Infrastructure: Private Bag X9490, Polokwane, 0700 or
hand delivered at Works Tower Building, No. 43 Church Street, Polokwane,
0699.
For Capricorn District: Private Bag X9378, Polokwane 0700 Or hand deliver
at 15 Landros Mare street, next to Correctional Services. For Mopani District:
Private Bag X576, Giyani, 0826 or hand deliver at 570 Parliamentary Building,
Giyani.
For Sekhukhune District: Private Bag X02 Chuenespoort, 0745 or hand
deliver at Lebowakgomo Zone A, next to traffic department.
For Vhembe District: Private Bag X2248, Sibasa, 0970 or hand deliver at Cnr.
Traffic and Raluswielo Street, Sibasa.
For Waterberg District: Private Bag X1028, Modimolle, 0510 or hand deliver
at Cnr. Thabo Mbeki & Elias Motsoaledi Street. The application on
eRecruitment system should be accompanied by recent comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
duration/dates) as well as copies of all qualifications, Identity Document and
valid driver’s license only. Failure to attach copies and required documents will
result in the application not being considered/disqualification.
CLOSING DATE : 14 August 2026 at 16h30
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed prescribed Z83 application
for employment form (2021 version) obtainable from any public service
department or can be downloaded from www.dpsa.gov.za. Applications must
be accompanied by a detailed CV. Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents on application except when
applying through the erecruitment system. All fields in Part A, Part C and Part
D of the Z83 form should be completed. In Part B, all fields should be completed
in full. Part E, F & G applicants often indicate “refer to CV or see attached”, this
is acceptable as long as the CV has been attached and provides the required
information. Applicants with foreign qualifications remain responsible for
ensuring that their qualifications are evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Successful incumbent will be expected to sign
a performance agreement within one month after assumption of duty. The
successful candidate will also be required to disclose his or her financial
interests in accordance with the prescribed regulations. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to a security clearance and verification of qualifications. The
recommended candidate for appointment will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Check for security reasons. Failure to comply with the above
requirements will result in the disqualification of the application. The
Department reserve the right not to make any appointment(s) to the posts
advertised. The employment decision shall be informed by the Employment
Equity Plan of the Department. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within three (3) months after the
closing date, please consider your application as being unsuccessful.
However, should there be any dissatisfaction, applicants are advised to seek
reasons for the above administration action in terms of Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act (PAJA), Act No. 3 of 2000. The department will not
carry any related costs (transport, accommodation or meals) for candidates
attending interviews. The Department of Public Works, Roads and
Infrastructure is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. Women
and people living with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
266
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/422 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER (GRADE A-B) REF NO:
S.4/3/2/50
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : Grade A: R1 317 108 per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R1 593 765 per annum, (OSD)
(to be structured according to individual needs). The Department will determine
the salary package based on years of experience post professional
registration)
CENTRE : Capricorn district
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 7 as recognized by
SAQA in Built Environment with a minimum of 6 years’ experience as a
registered Professional Construction Project Manager with the SACPCMP,
Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities.
Technical Competencies: Programme and project management. Project
Management skills, principles and methodologies. Project and professional
judgement. Computer-aided engineering and project applications. Project
design and analysis knowledge. Project operational communication. Process
knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile equipment
operating skills. Legal and operational compliance. Research and
development. Creating high performance culture. Technical consulting.
Generic Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership, problem solving
and analysis, decision making, team leadership, creativity, financial
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer
skills, people management, planning and organizing, conflict management,
negotiation skills, change management.
DUTIES : Project design and analysis effectiveness: Perform final review and approvals
or audits on project designs according to design principles or theory. Co –
ordinate design efforts and integration across disciplines to ensure seamless
integration with current technology. Maintain project operational effectiveness:
Manage the execution of project management strategy through the provision
of appropriate structures, systems and resources. Set project standards,
specifications and service levels according to organizational objectives to
ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor project management
efficiencies according to organizational goals to direct or redirect project
services for the attainment of organizational objectives. Financial
Management: Ensure availability and management of funds to meet the MTEF
objectives within the project environment/ services. Manage the operational
capital project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing
according to organizational needs and objectives. Manage the commercial
added value of the discipline-related programmes and projects. Facilitate the
compilation of innovation proposals to ensure validity and adherence to
organizational principles. Allocate, monitor, control, expenditure according to
budget to ensure efficient cashflow management. Governance Allocate,
monitor and control resources. Compiles risk logs (database) and manages
significant risk according to sound risk management practice and
organisational requirements. Provide technical consulting services for the
operation of project related matters to minimise possible project risks. Manage
and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g. short – term assignments and
secondments within and across operations, in support of individual
development plans, operational requirements and return on investment.
Continuously monitor the exchange and protection of information between
operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge management
according to departmental objectives. People management Direct the
development motivation and utilization of human resources for the discipline to
ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of project
services according to organisational needs and requirements. Manage
subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental
objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN, Mr Maleka KJ, Mabolola DP Tel No: (015) 287
5613/5610/5611/5612.
267
POST 25/423 : CHIEF ENGINEER (GRADE A-B) REF NO: S.4/3/13/5
Component: Health Infrastructure Delivery
SALARY : Grade A: R1 317 108.per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R1 593 765 per annum, (OSD)
(to be structured according to individual needs) (The department will determine
the salary package based on years of experience post professional
registration)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognize
by SAQA in B Engineering or BSc in Engineering. Six years’ post qualification
experience required as a registered Professional Engineer. Compulsory
registration with the ECSA as a Professional Engineer. Valid driver’s license
with the exception of persons with disabilities. Generic Competencies:
Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and analysis. Decision
Making. Team Leadership. Creativity. Financial Management. Customer focus
and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. People management.
Planning and organizing. Conflict Management. Negotiation skills. Change
management. Technical Competencies: Programme and project management.
Engineering, legal and operational compliance. Engineering operational
communication. Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and
knowledge. Mobile equipment and analysis knowledge. Engineering design
and analysis knowledge. Research and development. Computer- aided
engineering applications. Creating high performance culture. Technical
consulting. Engineering and professional judgement.
DUTIES : Engineering design and analysis effectiveness: Perform final review and
approvals or audits on new engineering designs according to design principles
or theory. Coordinate design efforts and integration across disciplines to ensure
seamless integration with current technology. Pioneering of new engineering
services and management methods. Maintain engineering operational
effectiveness. Manage the execution of management strategy through the
provision of appropriate structures, systems and resources. Set engineering
maintenance standards, specifications and service levels according to
organisational objectives to ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor
management efficiencies according to organisational goals to direct or redirect
engineering services for the attainment of organizational objectives. Financial
management: Ensure the availability and management of funds to meet the
MTEF objectives within the engineering environment/services. Manage the
operational capital project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective
resourcing according to organizational needs and objectives. Manage the
commercial value add of the discipline-related programmes and projects.
Facilitate the compilation of innovation proposals to ensure validity and
adherence to organisational principles. Allocate, control and monitor
expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow management.
Governance: Allocate, control, monitor and report on all resources. Compile
risk log and manages significant risk according to sound risk management
practice and organizational requirements. Provide technical consulting
services for the operation of engineering related matters to minimize possible
engineering risks. Manage and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g.
short-term assignments and secondments within and across operations, in
support of individual development plans, operational requirements and return
on investment. Continuously monitor the exchange and protection of
information between operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge
management according to departmental objectives. People management:
Manage the development, motivation and utilisation of human resources for
the discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success
of engineering services according to organizational needs and requirements.
Manage subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitoring
performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve
departmental objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7586/7627/7262.
268
POST 25/424 : CHIEF QUANTITY SURVEYOR (GRADE A -B) REF NO: S.4/3/13/6
Component: Health Infrastructure delivery
SALARY : Grade A: R1 143 468 per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R1 376 199 per annum, (OSD)
(to be structured according to individual needs). The department will determine
the salary package based on years of experience post professional
registration)
CENTRE : Head Office - Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognized
by SAQA in Quantity Survey. Six years’ Quantity Survey post qualification
experience required. Compulsory registration with SACQSP as a Professional
Quantity Surveyor. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Skills: Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. People management. Planning and organizing. Conflict
management. Negotiation skills. Change management. Technical
Competencies: Programme and project management. Quantity Survey legal
and operational compliance. Quantity Survey operational communication.
Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile
equipment operating skills. Research and development. Computer-aided
engineering applications. Creating high performance culture. Technical
consulting. Professional judgement.
DUTIES : Quantity Survey analysis effectiveness: Perform final review and approvals or
audits on quantity survey procedures. Co-ordinate quantity survey efforts and
integration across disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current
technology. Maintain quantity survey operational effectiveness. Manage the
execution of quantity survey strategy through the provision of appropriate
structures, systems and resources. Set quantity survey standards,
specifications and service levels according to organizational objectives to
ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor quantity survey efficiencies
according to organizational goals to direct or redirect quantity survey services
for the attainment of organizational objectives. Financial Management: Ensure
the availability and management of funds to meet the MTEF objectives within
the quantity survey environment/services. Manage the operational capital
project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to
organizational needs and objectives. Manage the commercial added value of
the discipline-related programmes and projects. Facilitate the compilation of
innovation proposals to ensure validity and adherence to organizational
principles. Allocate, monitor, control expenditure according to budget to ensure
efficient cash flow management. Governance: Allocate, monitor and control
resources. Compile risk logs (database) and manage significant risk according
to sound risk management practice and organizational requirements. Provide
technical specialist services for the operation of quantity survey related matters
to minimize possible risks. Manage and implement knowledge sharing
initiatives in support of individual development plans, operational requirements
and return on investment. Continuously monitor the exchange and protection
of information between operations and individuals to ensure effective
knowledge management according to departmental objectives. People
management: Manage the development, motivation and utilisation of human
resources for the discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the
continued success of quantity survey services according to organizational
needs and requirements. Manage subordinates’ key performance areas by
setting and monitoring performance standards and taking actions to correct
deviations to achieve departmental objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7586/7627/7262.
POST 25/425 : PROJECT MANAGER: MECHANICAL REF NO: S.4/3/10/113
Component: Mechanical Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (to be structured according to Individual needs), (Level
11)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric and a qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in
Mechanical Engineer. An appropriate Trade test certificate. 03-05 years
269
relevant experience in road maintenance/ construction environment at junior
management level. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Strategic Capability and Leadership, People
Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project Management,
Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management,
Service Delivery Innovation, Problem solving and analysis, Client Orientation
and Customer focus, Communication. Knowledge of relevant Public Service
Acts, regulations and frameworks, Knowledge and understanding of policy
analysis, development and interpretation, Mechanical manual, PFMA and
Treasury Regulations, Strategic capability and leadership.
DUTIES : Facilitate the acquisition, provision and disposal of roads maintenance
earthmoving machinery, plant and equipment: Identify and analyse the needs,
Compilation of specification to SCM, Pre-delivery inspection of machinery,
identify unserviceable, oblate and redundant machinery, Evaluate the condition
of the machinery and draw technical reports, Invite Board of survey,
Transportation of the machinery and plant to scrapyard. Manage the
maintenance of heavy earth moving machinery, trucks, light delivery vehicle
and roads related plant and equipment: Develop service schedules. Ensure
that service schedules are to and conducted to the manufacturer specifications.
Monitor major breakdown repairs performed by original engineering
manufacturers and departmental technicians. Develop repair trend statistics.
apply corrective measures and re-engineering demand. Liaise with service
providers on repairs of machinery, Ensure proper utilization of machinery.
Control the road maintenance assets in the district. Compile and monitor the
expenditure, Manage adherence to the relevant prescripts and eliminate waste
of resources. Manage cost benefits analysis for earth moving machinery and
equipment: Ensure that data is collected and capturer. Monitor downtime data
until the completion of repairs. Ensure that cost implications for machinery
maintenance are acceptable. Ensure maintenance provide maximum viable
level of availability versus hours worked and production. Identify unserviceable,
obsolete and redundant machinery from cost benefit analysis end results,
Ensure adherence to workshop administration processes e.g. job cards history
file. Manage registration and renewal of licenses for machinery, trucks and
equipment: Receive registration document of newly acquired machinery and
equipment. develop roadworthy and license renewal program and monitor
adherence. Facilitate the arrangement of weighbridge, police clearance and
roadworthy test for new and registered machinery and equipment. Facilitate
the re-introduction of asset that was deregistered by request and default.
Ensure deregistration of the plant and machinery. Conduct physical inspection:
Monitor major repairs before and after completion, conductor. Manage and
utilise resources (human, financial, & physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation: Report on the utilisation of equipment’s, Evaluate
and monitor performance and appraisal of subordinates. Provide capacity
development of subordinates. Enhance and maintain subordinates motivation
and cultivate a culture of performance management. Provide job description to
subordinates, Manage leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636
8300/8330.
POST 25/426 : CIVIL/ STRUCTURAL ENGINEER (GRADE A-C) REF NO: S.4/3/15/10
Component: Other Provincial Departments
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R1 030 296 per annum, (OSD)
Grade C: R1 172 184 per annum, (OSD)
(to be structured according to Individual needs), (The department will
determine the salary package based on years of experience post professional
registration)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 07 as recognised
by SAQA in Civil Engineering. 03 years’ experience required in Civil
Engineering. Compulsory valid registration with ECSA as Professional
Engineer. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Technical Competencies: Programme and project management.
Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Research and development.
Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture. Professional
270
judgment. Networking. Generic Competencies: Decision making, team
leadership, analytical skills, creativity, self-management, financial
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer
literacy, planning and organizing, conflict management, problem solving and
analysis and people management.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical civil engineering challenges and
improve efficiency and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain civil
engineering projects. Develop cost effective solutions according to standards.
Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to
incorporate new technology. Develop tender specifications (civil). Ensure
through evaluation that planning and design by others is done according to
sound engineering principles and according to norms and standards and
practice. Approve civil engineering works according to prescribed norms and
standards. Human capital development: Ensure training and development of
technicians, technologists and candidate engineers to promote
skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering principles and
code of practice. Supervise the civil engineering work and processes.
Administer performance management and development. Office administration
and budget planning: Manage resources and prepare and consolidate inputs
for the facilitation of resource utilization. Ensure adherence to regulations and
procedures for procurement and personnel administration. Monitor and control
expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery. Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on civil engineering
technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on civil
engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7586/7627/7262.
POST 25/427 : MECHANICAL ENGINEER (GRADE A-C) REF NO: S.4/3/13/3
Component: Health Infrastructure Delivery
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R1 030 296 per annum, (OSD)
Grade C: R1 172 184 per annum, (OSD)
(to be structured according to Individual needs), (The department will
determine the salary package based on years of experience post professional
registration)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 07 as recognised
by SAQA in Mechanical Engineering. 03-05 years post experience required in
mechanical engineering. Compulsory valid registration with ECSA as a
Professional Engineer. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants
with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Programme and project
management. Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Research and
development. Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Computer-aided engineering applications. Technical report
writing. Creating high performance culture. Professional judgment. Networking.
Generic Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership; People
Management and Empowerment; Programme and Project Management;
Financial Management; Change Management; Knowledge Management;
Service Delivery Innovation; Problem solving and analysis; Client Orientation
and Customer focus; Communication. Creativity. Computer skills. Planning and
organizing. Negotiation skills
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical mechanical engineering challenges and
improve efficiency and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain
mechanical engineering projects. Develop cost effective solutions according to
standards. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to in new technology. Develop tender specifications (mechanical),
Ensure through evaluation that planning and design by others is done
according to sound engineering principles and according to norms and
standards and practice. Approve mechanical engineering works according to
prescribed norms and standards. Human capital development: Ensure training
and development of technicians, technologists and candidate engineers to
promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering
principles and code of practice. Supervise the mechanical engineering work
and processes, Administer performance management and development. Office
271
administration and budget planning: Manage resources and prepare and
consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilization, ensure adherence
to regulations and procedures for procurement and personnel administration.
Monitor and control expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery.
Research and development: Continuous professional development to keep up
with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
mechanical engineering technology to improve expertise, and Liaise with
relevant bodies/councils on mechanical engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7586/7627/7262.
POST 25/428 : ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (GRADE A-C) REF NO: S.4/3/13/4
Component: Health Infrastructure Delivery
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R1 030 296 per annum, (OSD)
Grade C: R1 172 184 per annum, (OSD)
(to be structured according to Individual needs), (The department will
determine the salary package based on years of experience post professional
registration)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 07 as recognised
by SAQA in Electrical Engineering. 03 -05 years’ experience required in
Electrical engineering. Compulsory valid registration with Engineering Council
of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer. Valid driver’s license, with
the exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies:
Programme and project management. Engineering design and analysis
knowledge. Research and development. Computer-aided engineering
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Computer-aided engineering
applications. Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture.
Professional judgment. Networking. Generic Competencies: Strategic
Capability and Leadership; People Management and Empowerment;
Programme and Project Management; Financial Management; Change
Management; Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation; Problem
solving and analysis; Client Orientation and Customer focus; Communication.
Creativity. Computer skills. Planning and organizing. Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical electrical engineering challenges and
improve efficiency and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain
electrical engineering projects. Develop cost effective solutions according to
standards. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to in new technology. Develop tender specifications (electrical),
Ensure through evaluation that planning and design by others is done
according to sound engineering principles and according to norms and
standards and practice. Approve electrical engineering works according to
prescribed norms and standards. Human capital development: Ensure training
and development of technicians, technologists and candidate engineers to
promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering
principles and code of practice. Supervise the electrical engineering work and
processes. Administer performance management and development. Office
administration and budget planning: Manage resources and prepare and
consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilization, ensure adherence
to regulations and procedures for procurement and personnel administration,
Monitor and control expenditure. Report on expenditure and service delivery.
Research and development: Continuous professional development to keep up
with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
electrical engineering technology to improve expertise, and Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on electrical engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7586/7627/7262.
POST 25/429 : CHIEF ARTISAN GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/10/197
Component: Drainage Structures
SALARY : R499 470 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Ten years post qualification experience as
an Artisan/ Artisan Foreman in Shuttering / Steel Fixing / Concrete. Valid
272
driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical
Competencies: Project Management, Technical Design and analysis,
Computer aided technical applications, Legal compliance, Technical report
writing, technical Consulting, Production, process knowledge and skills.
Generic Competencies: Problem solving and analysis. Decision making.
Teamwork. Creativity. Change Management. Financial Management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills.
Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Manage technical services: Manage technical services and support in
conjunction with Technicians/Artisans and associates in field, workshop and
technical office activities. Ensure the promotion of safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Provide inputs into existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure
quality assurance in line with specifications. Manage administrative and related
functions: Provide inputs to budgeting process. Compile and submit reports as
required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical operational plan.
Update database. Manage artisans and related personnel and assets.
Financial Management: Control and monitor expenditure according to budget
to ensure efficient cash flow management. Manage the commercial value add
of the discipline related activities and services. People management: Manage
the development, motivation and utilization of human resource for the discipline
to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of technical
services according to organizational needs and requirement. Manage
subordinate: Key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance
standards and taking actions to correct deviations to achieve departmental
objectives. Maintain and advance expertise: Continuous individual
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature studies on technical/ engineering technology to improve
expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on technical/engineering-related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Malesa, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
POST 25/430 : DEPUTY PROJECT MANAGER REF NO: S.4/3/10/80
Component: Regravelling and Drainage Structure
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Waterberg district
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Civil
Engineering. Three (03) years of experience at supervisory level in Roads
Maintenance environment. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills; Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity, Financial
management, Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication,
Computer skills, People management, Planning and organising. Public Service
Acts, regulations and frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of policy
analysis, development and interpretation. Treasury Regulations.
DUTIES : Manage the roads regravelling of roads. Identify the areas that needs
regravelling. Planning of work to be done. Coordinate and facilitate work.
Facilitate the preparation of quarry site and stockpiling of gravel. Conduct
assessment of the work. Manage construction of drainage structures. Identify
the spot that needs drainage. Quantify the material needed. Identify all working
area environment before the work is started. Conduct inspection (Installation
of pipes, maintenance of existing pipes). Assess compliance to OHS
legislation. Investigate and report accidents. Inform OHS unit about the
potential danger. Consolidate the availability of equipment and ensure proper
maintenance. Liaise with the Mechanical workshop on: Equipment/plant that
are available. Breakdowns are reported. Plant/equipment are well maintained.
Manage and utilise resources (human, financial, & physical) in accordance with
relevant directives and legislation. Report on the utilisation of equipments.
Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of subordinates. Provide
capacity development of subordinates. Enhance and maintain subordinates’
motivation and cultivate a culture of performance management. Provide job
description to subordinates. Manage leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718 3000/3040/3052/3027.
273
POST 25/431 : DEPUTY PROJECT MANAGER: INSPECTORATE REF NO: S.4/3/10/196
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric certificate and a qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised
by SAQA in Civil Engineering/ Survey Engineering. 03 years relevant
experience in Road’s inspection environment at lower managerial level. Valid
driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge
And Skills: Knowledge of Labour-Intensive Roads Constructions. Knowledge
of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and frameworks. Knowledge and
understanding of policy analysis, development and interpretation. PFMA and
Treasury Regulations. Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. People management. Planning and organising. Conflict
management.
DUTIES : Manage visual assessment of roads and drainage structures: Develop the
inspection plan. Monitor alignment of the inspection plan to the operational
plan. Analyse gaps and advise on the action to be taken. Allocate resources.
Consolidate the assessment reports and make recommendations. Provide
maintenance expertise: Monitor compliance with roads maintenance
standards/ specifications. Manage and implement site inspection plan. Identify
problems on production site and propose possible solutions. Provide on-job
training to maintenance teams. Monitor and implement the Service Delivery
Improvement Programme: Provide guidance and technical advice for
Expanded Public Works Programme. Communicate, respond and attend to
community requests, complaints and legal claims. Monitor completion and
quality of roads projects. Provide advice to implement Service Delivery
Improvement Programme. Coordinate progress reports on roads and bridges
maintenance. Manage and utilise resources (human, financial, & physical) in
accordance with relevant directives and legislation: Report on the utilisation of
equipment’s, Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of subordinates,
provide capacity development of subordinates, Enhance and maintain
subordinates motivation and cultivate a culture of performance management,
Provide job description to subordinates, Manage leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636
8300/8330.
POST 25/432 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: S.4/3/6/13
Component: Enterprise-Wide Risk Enterprise
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric, a qualification at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA in
Auditing, Finance and Risk Management. 3 years at Supervisory level / Risk
Officer/ Risk Practitioner of which 5 years’ experience must be Risk
Management. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Enterprise Risk Management frameworks.
Risk assessment methodologies. Business Continuity Management.
Combined Assurance processes. Public financial management environment.
Government reporting frameworks. Risk identification and analysis. Risk
monitoring and evaluation. Report writing. Stakeholder engagement.
Presentation skills. Governance and compliance monitoring. Policy
implementation. Problem-solving abilities. Communication skills. Computer
literacy. Microsoft Office proficiency. Strategic thinking. Planning and
organisational skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and conduct risk assessment in the Department: Implement risk
management activities in accordance with the approved Risk Management
Framework. Support the development and implementation of risk management
policies and strategies. Conduct departmental risk assessments and identify
emerging risks. Maintain risk registers and monitor risk response plans and
evaluate mitigation measures. Participate in the implementation of the
Department’s Combined Assurance Plan. Provide risk management
awareness campaigns: Develop an approved annual Risk Management
Awareness Campaign Plan/schedule. Conduct awareness sessions and
consultations with management and risk champions. Facilitate induction
274
awareness sessions for newly appointed employees on risk management
responsibilities. Develop and circulate awareness materials such as posters,
brochures, presentations and emails. Provide Business Continuity Services:
Assist with Business Continuity Management Programme implementation.
Conduct a Business Impact Analysis (BIA) for critical business processes
within the department. Conduct simulation exercises and desktop testing of
Business Continuity Plans. Coordinate awareness campaigns on emergency
preparedness and service continuity. Engage ICT and facilities management
on system recovery and infrastructure readiness. Assess departmental
readiness for potential disruptions and emergencies. Facilitate lessons-learned
sessions from incidents, tests and simulations conducted. Render secretariat
duties to the Business Continuity Management Committee. Establish and
maintain good relation with relevant Risk Planning and Management
stakeholders: Attend departmental management meetings, governance
committees and stakeholder forums to provide risk management inputs. Liaise
with other units about identified high risk areas. Develop recommendations for
improvement of risk management practices. Maintain continuous
communication with programme managers, risk champions, and senior
management regarding risk management matters. Prepare presentations,
briefing notes, and reports for management and stakeholder engagements on
risk management matters. Promote a culture of risk awareness and
accountability across the department through continuous stakeholder
interaction. Provide resources (human, financial & physical): Supervise and
support subordinates on daily administrative and operational activities. Allocate
duties and monitor workload distribution within the section to ensure effective
utilisation of staff. Promote teamwork, discipline and effective communication
within the unit. Identify staff capacity gaps and recommend relevant training
and development interventions. Monitor staff attendance, leave management,
and timely submission of timesheets. Facilitate performance management
processes, including performance agreements and quarterly reviews. Monitor
the utilisation of allocated funds to ensure value of money. Ensure compliance
with occupational health and safety requirements within the office environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7586/7627/7262.
POST 25/433 : ROAD WORK SUPERINTENDENT REF NO: S.4/3/10/35
Component: Alldays Roads Maintenance
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Capricorn district: All days Roads Maintenance
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric and a qualification at NQF level 6 in Civil Engineering or
Construction Management as recognized by SAQA. Six (6) years road work
maintenance/Construction experience. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Knowledge
of Artisan-related activities. Knowledge of relevant Acts and regulations.
Knowledge and understanding of policy analysis, development and
interpretation. Strategic capability and leadership. Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. People management. Planning and organizing. Conflict
management.
DUTIES : Monitor the maintenance and repair of road surfaces on all surfaced roads such
as resurfacing interval, culvert/bridge replacement, line painting, replacement
of signs, grade and resurface gravel on loose top roads. Develop maintenance
schedules for assets (roads, plant, equipment, etc.). Plan and prepare
weekly/monthly site programme. Manage contracted services, project
management and final inspection for capital projects. Provide technical advice
on claims against the department. Monitor and check the quality of work done
by contractors/maintenance teams. Manage and develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN, Mr Maleka KJ, Mabolola DP Tel No: (015) 287
5613/5610/5611/5612.
POST 25/434 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/10/198
Component: Sibasa Mechanical Workshop
SALARY : R397 329 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE Vhembe district: Sibasa Mechanical Workshop
275
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Mechanical. Five years post qualification
experience as an Artisan in mechanical. Valid driver’s license with the
exception of people with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Technical
analysis knowledge. Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of
legal compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and
skills. Generic Competencies: Decision making, teamwork, analytical skills,
creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness,
communication, computer skills, planning and organizing, problem solving and
analysis and Conflict management.
DUTIES : Design. Supervise and produce designs according to client specification and
within limits of production capability. Production. Produce objects with material
and equipment’s according to job specification and recognised standards.
Quality assurance of produced objects. Maintenance. Inspect equipment
and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according
to standards. Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications.
Service equipment and/or facilities according to schedule. Quality assures
serviced and maintained equipment and/or facilities. Perform administrative
and related functions. Update register of maintained and repaired faults.
Provide Supply Chain Management with specification to obtain quotations and
purchase equipment and materials. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide inputs to the operational plan. Ensure adherence to safety standards,
requirements and regulations. Supervise and mentor staff. Maintain expertise.
Continuous individual development to keep up with new technologies and
procedure. Human and capital resource management: Supervise and mentor
staff. Planning of resources. Scheduling of work. Maintain expertise:
Continuous individual development to keep up with new technologies and
procedures. Research/literature studies on technical/engineering technology to
improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 25/435 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/2/113
Component: Building Maintenance
SALARY R397 329 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Vhembe district: Thohoyandou Building Maintenance (Plumbing)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate as recognised by SAQA. Five years of post-
qualification experience as an Artisan. Valid driver’s license with the exception
of people with disabilities. technical competencies: Team leadership. Technical
analysis. Computer aided technical applications. Legal compliance. Technical
report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills. generic
competencies: Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork.
Creativity. Self-Management. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Computer skills. Planning and organising. Conflict
management.
DUTIES Design: Supervise and produce designs according to client specifications and
within limits of production capability. Production: Produce objects with material
and equipment’s according to job specifications and recognised standards.
Quality assurance of produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment
and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according
to standards. Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications.
Service equipment and/or facilities according to schedule. Quality assures
serviced and maintained equipment and/or facilities. Perform administrative
and related functions: Update register of maintained and repaired faults.
Provide Supply Chain Management with specification to obtain quotations and
purchase equipment and materials. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide inputs to the operational plan. Ensure adherence to safety standards,
requirements and regulations. Human and capital resource management:
Supervise and mentor staff. Planning of resources. Scheduling work. Maintain
expertise: Continuous individual development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
technical/engineering technology to improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 25/436 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/10/200
Component: Drainage Structures
SALARY : R397 329 per annum, (OSD)
276
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Five years of post qualification experience
as an Artisan. Valid driver’s license with the exception of people with
disabilities. Knowledge: Project Management. Technical design and analysis.
Computer aided technical applications. Legal compliance. Technical report
writing. Technical consulting. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Creativity. Change
Management. Financial Management. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Computer skills. Planning and organizing. Technical
Competencies: Team leadership. Technical analysis. Computer aided technical
applications. Legal compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process
knowledge and skills. Generic Competencies: Problem solving and analysis.
Decision making. Teamwork. Creativity. Self-Management. Customer focus
and responsiveness. Communication. Computer skills. Planning and
organising. Conflict management.
DUTIES : Design: Supervise and produce designs according to client specification and
within limits of production capability. Production: Produce objects with material
and equipment’s according to job specification and recognised standards.
Quality assurance of produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment
and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according
to standards. Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications.
Service equipment and/or facilities according to schedule. Quality assures
serviced and maintained equipment and/or facilities. Perform administrative
and related functions: Update register of maintained and repaired faults.
Provide Supply Chain Management with specification to obtain quotations and
purchase equipment and materials. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide inputs to the operational plan. Ensure adherence to safety standards,
requirements and regulations. Human and capital resource management:
Supervise and mentor staff. Planning of resources. Scheduling of work.
Maintain expertise: Continuous individual development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
technical/engineering technology to improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Malesa, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075,
POST 25/437 : MAINTENANCE OPERATION SPECIALIST REF NO: S.4/3/10/33
Component: Routine Maintenance
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani district
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric and appropriate Trade Diploma. Three (03) years’ experience
in road work maintenance. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. People management. Planning and organising. Conflict
management. Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and
frameworks. Knowledge of Artisan related activities. Knowledge of machinery
and occupational safety acts.
DUTIES : Maintain an action plan for the maintenance of roads. Give guidance and
direction on work performance. Identify gaps and provide solutions. Conduct
routine checks on maintenance works. Provide periodic reports on
maintenance works. Formulate roads maintenance proposals by reviewing and
analysing policy inputs: Interpret and implement roads maintenance policies.
Make recommendations on the work to be done. Provide inputs on review of
policies. Support and monitor implementation of the action plan: Provide
guidance on work performance. Measure the work to be done. Provide reports.
Enhance capacity by providing information, guidance, assistance and training:
Provide guidance on work performance. Identify training needs. Conduct skills
audit of subordinates. Facilitate training. Conduct on the job training.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Malesa, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075,
POST 25/438 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
S.4/3/6/15
Component: Integrity Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
277
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric, a qualification at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA
National Diploma in Risk management, Law, Internal Audit, Forensic
investigation, Juris Criminalis, Fraud and Ethics Management. 2 to 3 years’
experience in fraud risk assessments, fraud risk monitoring, ethics
management, fraud and corruption investigation. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Skills And Knowledge: Enterprise Risk
Management frameworks. Risk assessment methodologies. Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa. Public Finance Management Act. Public Sector
Integrity Management framework. Protected disclosure Act. Prevention and
Combating of Corrupt Activities Act. National Anti-Corruption Strategy.
Prevention of Organise Crime Act. Government reporting frameworks.
Investigation skills. Risk identification and analysis. Risk monitoring and
evaluation. Report writing. Presentation skills. Policy implementation. Problem-
solving abilities. Communication skills. Computer literacy. Microsoft Office
proficiency. Planning and organisational skills.
DUTIES : Conduct investigation of fraud and corruption in the department: Develop
investigation plan for the purpose of conducting investigation independently.
Analyse the complaint or allegations of fraud/ corruption and identify the
legislation which has been contravened. Conduct interviews with the
complainant/ or end user to get the background information. Gather and
analyse relevant evidential documentation and evidence. Gather relevant
information for background and statutory checks. Conduct interviews with
potential witnesses, relevant people and implicated officials/ people. Obtain
explanations for transactions/instructions/actions. Compile detailed
investigation report with findings and recommendation supported facts or
evidential material. Make follow up with regards to the implementation of
recommendations made in the investigation reports. Liaise with other law
enforcements agencies and government departments. Ensure proper
communication and report progress made with regard to investigations.
Conduct and facilitate the Anti-Fraud and Corruption awareness and training:
implement anti-fraud and corruption awareness program. Ensure capacity
building and training of employees on anti-fraud and corruption throughout the
department. Conduct research, audits and analysis of the awareness. Liaise
with Law enforcement agencies, and other institutions to ensure fair, unbiased
and uniform interpretation of policies and guidelines. Establish and maintain
good working relationship with relevant Anti-Fraud and Corruption
stakeholders: Establish the departmental Anti-Fraud and Corruption
governance structure. Attend meetings with various structures (both National
and Provincial). Develop relationships across diverse groups of stakeholders.
Attend workshops, seminars, conferences, etc to keep up to date with new
trends in the vetting fields. Liaise with Law enforcements Agencies, such as
NPA, SIU, SAPS, and other governments departments. Conduct and facilitate
Ethics Management matters: Conduct training and education in relation to
professional ethics. Provide support to the ethics officer. Perform
administration function regarding the applications for other Remunerative
Work. Conduct investigation on cases of non-compliance to the Code of
Conduct or Code Ethics. Conduct assessment on the applications for
remunerative work outside the public service. Analyse the information
contained in the applications for Other Remunerative Works and advice the
Ethics Officer before approval by the Executing Authority.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7586/7627/7262.
POST 25/439 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LOGISTICS AND INVENTORY
MANAGEMENT REF NO: S.4/3/9/200
Component: Logistics and Inventory Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric and a qualification at NQF level 06 as recognized by SAQA
in Logistics Management or Supply Chain Management or Financial
Management or Financial Accounting. Two (2) years related Logistic and
Supply Chain Management experience. Valid driver’s license, with the
exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of
relevant Public Service Acts, regulations and frameworks. Knowledge and
understanding of policy interpretation. Treasury Regulations. Supply Chain
Management procedures. Procurement Procedures. PFMA. Problem solving
278
and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. People management. Planning and organising. Conflict
management. Treasury Regulations, SCM procedures, Procurement
procedures, PFMA.
DUTIES : Process requisitions for goods and services: Receive a requisition. Process
requisition. Coordinate the placement of orders for goods and services. Place
an order for the service in the case of a service required. Order and acquire
goods if not a store item or the item is not in stock. Coordinate the safekeeping
and distribution of goods: Receive and check goods. Capture goods on
relevant procurement system. Return damaged incorrect and substandard
goods. Issue goods as required. Preparation and collation of payment
documents. Monitoring and support of inventory stocktaking/stock count.
Ensure appointment of stocktaking teams. Consolidation of stocktaking plans.
Conduct visits during stocktaking/stock count. Consolidation of
stocktaking/stock count reports. Submission of consolidated stocktaking/stock
count report. Monitoring and support of inventory management function at the
district: Check physical stock against the bin cards and system records.
Monitor adherence to SOPs. Compilation of monitoring reports. Follow-up on
corrective actions for any discrepancies or issues identified. Collection,
verification and submission of information for inventory disclosure notes. Verify
inventory records and expenditure reports. Check discrepancies. Consolidate
monthly, quarterly and annual financial statement notes. Monitoring and
coordinating disposal of inventory stock. Prepare the identified stock for
disposal. Develop proposals for the disposal method. Presentation to the
disposal committee for approval.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Hanyane NP, Mr. Moabelo MJ, Ms. Motsai S Tel No: (015) 284
7586/7627/7262.
POST 25/440 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/2/98
Component: Building Maintenance
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Vhembe district - Thohoyandou building maintenance (Bricklaying)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Technical Competencies: Technical analysis
knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Generic Competencies: Decision making, teamwork, analytical skills, creativity,
self-management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication,
computer skills, planning and organizing, problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and
equipment’s according to job specification and recognizes standards, Quality
assurance of produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/or
facilities for technical faults, Repair equipment and facilities according to
standards, Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specification, Service
equipment and/or facilities according to schedule, quality assure serviced and
maintained equipment and or facilities. Perform administrative and related
functions: Compile and submit reports, Provide inputs on the compilation of
technical reports, Keep and maintain job record and other registers, Maintain
and adhere to agreed development plan, Supervise and mentor staff. Maintain
expertise: Continuous individual development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015) 963 3790
POST 25/441 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/10/103
Component: Drainage structures
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Capricorn district
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Steel & shuttering. Experience will be an
added advantage. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Technical Competencies: Technical analysis knowledge.
Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills. Generic
Competencies: Decision making, teamwork, analytical skills, creativity, self-
279
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer
skills, planning and organizing, problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and
equipment’s according to job specification and recognised standards, Quality
assurance of produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/or
facilities for technical faults, Repair equipment and facilities according to
standards, Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications,
Service equipment and/or facilities according to schedule, Quality assure
serviced and maintained equipment and or facilities. Perform administrative
and related functions: Compile and submit reports, provide inputs on the
compilation of technical reports, Keep and maintain job record and other
registers, Maintain and adhere to agreed development plan, Supervise and
mentor staff. Maintain expertise: Continuous individual development to keep
up with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN, Mr Maleka KJ, Mabolola DP Tel No: (015) 287
5613/5610/5611/5612.
POST 25/442 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: S.4/3/10/86
Component: Drainage structures
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune district
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Bricklaying/Plumbing/Masonry/ Carpentry.
Experience in Steel fixing and Shuttering will be an added advantage. Valid
driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Technical
Competencies: Technical analysis knowledge. Computer-aided technical
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Production, process knowledge and skills. Generic Competencies: Decision
making, teamwork, analytical skills, creativity, self-management, customer
focus and responsiveness, communication, computer skills, planning and
organizing, problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and
equipment’s according to job specification and recognised standards, Quality
assurance of produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/or
facilities for technical faults, Repair equipment and facilities according to
standards, Test repair equipment and/or facilities against specifications,
Service equipment and/or facilities according to schedule, Quality assure
serviced and maintained equipment and or facilities. Perform administrative
and related functions: Compile and submit reports, provide inputs on the
compilation of technical reports, Keep and maintain job record and other
registers, Maintain and adhere to agreed development plan, Supervise and
mentor staff. Maintain expertise: Continuous individual development to keep
up with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No: (015) 636
8300/8330.
POST 25/443 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A (X3 POSTS)
Component: Mechanical Workshop
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Waterberg District:
Mokopane Mechanical Workshop Ref No: S.4/3/10/201
Vhembe District:
Sibasa Mechanical Workshop Ref No: S.4/3/10/182
Malamulele Mechanical Workshop Ref No: S.4/3/10/202
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate as Diesel Mechanic. Experience will be an
added advantage. Valid driver’s license, with the exception of applicants with
disabilities. Knowledge: Relevant Acts and regulations. Road maintenance
Manual. Health and safety measures. Technical Competencies: Technical
analysis. Computer aided technical applications, Legal compliance, technical
report writing, technical consulting, Production, process knowledge and skills.
Generic Competencies: Problem solving and analysis, Decision making,
Teamwork, Creativity, Self-Management, Customer focus and responsiveness,
Communication, Computer skills, Planning and organising.
280
DUTIES : Perform services and repairs to roads related plant and equipment: Repairs:
Receive job card. Stabilize machine or vehicle. Run the engine until warm. Turn
engine off. Drain oil into container. Re-install the drain plug. Remove filters (oil,
fuel & air filter). Examine filter debris. Install new filters. Refill oil and check for
leaks and level. Test drive. Service: Check the condition of working area for
safety. Determine problem existing. State problem in writing. Visual inspection
on machine/ vehicle (for further damage such as leaks boos bolts and cracks).
Fix the problem and re-test. Analyse the failure. List all possible causes. Run
test and record information. Eliminate and insolate. Provide mechanical
expertise: Carry out services as per service category and complete standards.
Doing visual and pre-checks inspection on plant before and after
service/repairs is carried out as well as the compiling of inspection sheet.
Making full report of the findings and completing of job cords after competing
any repair or service. Perform per-inspection for additional defects before
repairs: Dismantling. Lay-out. Check condition of warn out parts. Repair or
replace where necessary and assemble. Clean the object/part and test it.
Perform administrative and related functions: Provide inputs on the compilation
of technical reports. Keep and maintain job records and other registers.
Maintain and adhere to agreed development plan.
ENQUIRIES : For Waterberg: Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027.
For Vhembe: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015)
963 3790.
POST 25/444 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X2 POSTS)
Component: Roads Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Waterberg District: Lephalale Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/203
Vhembe District: Thohoyandou Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/204
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 4 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Basic
knowledge of supply chain duties, practices as well as the ability to capture
data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Basic knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Basic
knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment.
DUTIES : Render administration clerical support of roads maintenance: Receive
documentation for roads maintenance. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data in relation to roads maintenance. Update
registers and statistics. Handle routine enquiries, make photocopies and
receive or send facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep
and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component.
Render administration clerical support on office services and accommodations:
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of
goods and services. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the
component: Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain
personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance
register of the component. Forward component leave form to corporate
services. Render financial administration support services in the component:
Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to
manager for approval.
ENQUIRIES : For Waterberg: Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027.
For Vhembe: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015)
963 3790.
POST 25/445 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK RCC REF NO: S.4/3/2/57
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mopani district office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of general administration duties, practices as well as the ability to
281
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Job
knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Computer
skills. Language and good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES Render administration clerical support of building maintenance: Receive
documentation for building maintenance. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data in relation to building maintenance. Update
registers and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and
receive or send facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep
and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component.
Render administration clerical support on office services and accommodations:
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of
goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement forms for the
purchasing of standard office items, Stock control of office stationery. Keep and
maintain the asset register of the component. Render administration clerical
support of fleet services: Receive and provide GG allocation to use during and
after normal working hours. Record, organise, store, capture and retrieve
correspondence and data in relation to fleet management, Update fleet
management registers and statistics, Handle routine enquiries. Provide
personnel administration clerical support services within the component:
Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain personnel
records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance register of the
component. Forward component leave form to corporate services. Render
financial administration support services in the component: Check correctness
of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Malesa, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
POST 25/446 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: S.4/3/2/128
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Vhembe district: Makhado Building Maintenance
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license,
with the exception of applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of general administration duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Job
knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Computer
skills. Language and good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Render administration clerical support of building maintenance: Receive
documentation for building maintenance. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data in relation to building maintenance. Update
registers and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and
receive or send facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type letters and/or other correspondence when required. Keep
and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component.
Render administration clerical support on office services and accommodations:
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of
goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement forms for the
purchasing of standard office items, Stock control of office stationery. Keep and
maintain the asset register of the component. Render administration clerical
support of fleet services: Receive and provide GG allocation to use during and
after normal working hours. Record, organise, store, capture and retrieve
correspondence and data in relation to fleet management, Update fleet
management registers and statistics, Handle routine enquiries. Provide
personnel administration clerical support services within the component:
Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and maintain personnel
records in the component. Keep and maintain the attendance register of the
component. Forward component leave form to corporate services. Render
financial administration support services in the component: Check correctness
of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015) 963 3790
282
POST 25/447 : ROAD WORKS FOREMAN (X6 POSTS)
Component: Routine Maintenance
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune district:
Regravelling Ref No: S.4/3/10/205 (X1 Post)
Vhembe district:
Makhado Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/206 (X1 Post)
Musina Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/207 (X1 Post)
Capricorn district:
Lebowakgomo Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/10/208 (X1 Post)
Regravelling Ref No: S.4/3/10/228 (X1 Post)
Waterberg district:
Bela Bela Road Maintenance Ref No: S/4/3/10/209 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognised by SAQA. Three (03) years road
works maintenance experience. Valid drivers license, with the exception of
applicants with disabilities. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of relevant Acts
and regulations. Road maintenance Manual. Roads operating machinery.
Health and safety measures. Roads production procedures and Processes.
Problem solving and analysis, Decision making, Team leadership, Creativity,
Financial management, Customer focus and responsiveness communication,
People management, Planning and organising, Conflict management.
DUTIES : Support Road construction or maintenance work through: Construction of
culvert and side drains. Erect and maintain steel guardrail and gabions.
Construction of road earth and layer works. Clean and maintain roads,
sidewalks and resting areas. Surfacing and pothole patching. Road fencing and
pipe laying. Setting of road markings/signs. Install road signs and barricade the
work area. Supervise activities in respect of road construction or maintenance
work through: Application of safety and precautionary measures. Conduct
inspection. Exercise control over tools, supplies and other equipment. Allocate
tasks and oversee work performance. Maintenance of Equipment. Co-ordinate
the blading program.
ENQUIRIES : For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No
015 636 8300/8330.
For Vhembe: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015)
963 3790.
For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN, Mr Maleka KJ, Mabolola DP
Tel No: Tel 015 287 5613/5610/5611/5612.
For Waterberg: Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027.
POST 25/448 : TRADESMAN AID (X3 POSTS)
Component: Roads Maintenance
SALARY : R170 266 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune district:
Lebowakgomo Mechanical workshop Ref No: S.4/3/10/210 (X1 Post)
roblersdal Mechanical workshop Ref No: S.4/3/10/211 (X1 Post)
Capricorn district:
Senwabarwana Mechanical workshop Ref No: S.4/3/10/212 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS A qualification at NQF level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Skills And Knowledge:
Cleaning equipment. Safety· Health and safety measures. Working procedures
in respect of work environment.
DUTIES : Perform services and repairs to roads related plant and equipment. Assist in
carrying out services as per service category and complete standards. Assist
in performing per-inspection for additional defects before repairs. Safekeeping
of machinery and tools.
ENQUIRIES : For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No
015 636 8300/8330.
For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN, Mr Maleka KJ, Mabolola DP
Tel No: Tel 015 287 5613/5610/5611/5612.
POST 25/449 : TRADESMAN AID (X4 POSTS)
Component: Building Infrastructure Maintenance
SALARY : R170 266 per annum (Level 03)
283
CENTRE : Waterberg district:
Modimolle Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/66 (X1 Post)
Bela Bela Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/124 (X1 Post)
Carpentry Services Ref No: S.4/3/2/129 (X1 Post)
Mopani district:
Naphuno Building Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/2/126 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge And Skills:
Ability to use electrical and hand tools, good interpersonal communication and
organizational skills, an ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Provide assistant in maintenance of facilities and equipment: Conduct regular
building inspections. Attend to minor electrical, plumbing, plastering, and
carpentry problems. Report defects. Repair, clean service and safe keeping of
equipments and tools according to standard: Repair broken furniture and
equipment. Clean equipment and machinery after use. Report faults.
ENQUIRIES : For Waterberg: Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027.
For Mopani: Mr P Malesa, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811
4000/4070/4075,
POST 25/450 : ROAD WORKER (X12 POSTS)
Component: Routine Maintenance
SALARY : R170 266 per annum Level 03
CENTRE : Capricorn District:
Lebowakgomo Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/213 (X1 Post)
Regravelling Ref No: S.4/3/10/214 (X2 Posts)
Sekhukhune district:
Hoeraroep Roads Maintenance Ref No:S.4/3/10/216 (X1 Post)
Regravelling Ref No: S.4/3/10/217 (X1 Post)
Drainage Structures Ref No: S.4/3/10/218 (X1 Post)
Waterberg district:
Mookgophong Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/219 (X1 Post)
Bela Bela Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/130 (X1 Post)
George Masebe Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/220 (X1 Post)
Roedtan Road Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/221 (X2 Posts)
Mopani district:
Regravelling Ref No: S.4/3/10/169 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 04 as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge And Skills:
Relevant Acts and Regulations. Operating roads machinery. Health and safety
measures. Working procedures in respect of roads environment. Acts and
regulations. Decision making. Creativity. Communication. Planning and
organizing. Team player.
DUTIES : Perform routine activities in respect of road maintenance and construction
through: Construction of culvet and side drains, erect and maintain steel
guardrails and gabions, construction of road earth and layer works. Clean and
maintain roads, sidewalks and resting areas. Surfacing and pothole patching.
Road fencing and pipe laying. Setting of road markings and road studs. Install
road signs, distance markers and barricade the work area, crushing of road
material, bush clearing and grass cutting.
ENQUIRIES : For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN, Mr Maleka KJ, Mabolola DP
Tel No: Tel 015 287 5613/5610/5611/5612.
For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No
015 636 8300/8330.
For Waterberg: Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027. For Mopani: Mr P Malesa, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila
Tel No: (015) 811 4000/4070/4075
POST 25/451 : DRIVER OPERATOR (X10 POSTS)
Component: Routine Maintenance
SALARY : R170 266 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Capricorn District (X3 Posts)
Mothapo Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/223 (X1 Post)
Lebowakgomo Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/224 (X1 Post)
Regravelling Ref Fo: S.4/3/10/175 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District:
Groblersdal Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/155 (X1 Post)
284
Waterberg district:
Lephalale Ref No: S.4/3/10/222 (X2 Posts)
Mopani district:
Letaba Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/123 (X1 Post)
Vhembe district:
Mutale Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/225 (X1 Post)
Malamulele Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/226 (X1 Post)
Musina Roads Maintenance Ref No: S.4/3/10/227 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 04 as recognized by SAQA. A valid driver’s license
Code EC and Operating Certificate. Minimum 2 years driving and operating
specialized equipment experience. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of
relevant Acts and regulations. Operating roads machinery. Health and safety
measures. Working procedures in respect of roads environment. Decision
making Creativity Communication Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Perform activities in respect of operation through: Operating specialized
equipment. Load and offload goods/equipment’s. Inspection and maintenance
of equipment and report defects. Keep log sheets of vehicles and machineries.
Application of safety and precautionary measures. Cleaning and lubrication of
machinery and equipments. Grading of gravel roads. Regravelling / shoulder
maintenance. Render driving services. Perform activities in respect of
operation through inter alia the following: Transportation of work teams and
materials/equipments. Detect and repair minor civil problems on the vehicle
and take steps to have it repaired (checked level and condition of oil, fuel, tyres
and water). Inspection of the vehicles / equipments and report defects.
Complete vehicle log book, trip authorization for the vehicle.
ENQUIRIES : For Capricorn: Ms Mothiba MM, Mr Seleka BN, Mr Maleka KJ, Mabolola DP
Tel No: Tel 015 287 5613/5610/5611/5612.
For Sekhukhune: Ms Makalela RC, Mankge LJ and Mr Mathabatha MJ Tel No
015 636 8300/8330.
For Waterberg: Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027.
For Mopani: Mr P Malesa, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811
4000/4070/4075.
For Vhembe: Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015)
963 3790.
POST 25/452 : DRIVER REF NO: S.4/3/2/130
Component: Building Maintenance
SALARY : R170 266 per annum, (Level 03)
CENTRE : Vhembe district: Makhado Building Maintenance
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 qualifications / A qualification at NQF Level 03 as recognized by
SAQA. A valid driver’s license with Professional Driving Permit (PDP). Seven
(7) to twelve (12) months driving experience. Knowledge And Skills:
Procedures to operate the motor vehicle e.g. procedures to obtain trip
authorities, complete the logbooks, consumables and basic services.
Prescripts for the correct utilisation of the motor vehicle procedure to ensure
that the vehicle is maintained properly. Confidentiality Flexible Good
communication High standard of workmanship.
DUTIES : Core driver functions: Drive light and medium motor vehicles to transport
passengers and deliver other items (mail and documents). Perform routine
maintenance on the allocated vehicle and report defects timely. Complete all
the required and prescribed records and logs books with regard to the vehicle
and the goods handled.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MF Mavhungu, Ms M Muthabi & Mr TI Tshipuke Tel No: (015) 963 3790.
POST 25/453 : CLEANER (X3POSTS)
Component: Building Maintenance
SALARY : R170 266 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Mopani district: Facilities Services Ref No: S.4/3/3/100 (X2 Posts)
Waterberg district: Bela-Bela Cost Centre Ref No: S.4/3/3/128 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 08 / ABET / AET qualifications / A qualification at NQF level 02 as
recognised by SAQA. Knowledge And Skills: Cleaning equipment. Health and
safety measures. Working procedures in respect of working environment.
Basic Numeracy. Basic Interpersonal relationship. Basic literacy. Organising.
285
DUTIES : Provide cleaning services: Office corridors, elevators and boardrooms. Dusting
and waxing office furniture, sweeping, scrubbing and waxing of floor, vacuum
and shampooing floors, cleaning walls, windows and doors, emptying and
cleaning of dirty bins, collect and removing of waste papers, freshen the office
areas. Provide cleaning services: kitchen and restrooms by, clean basins, wash
and keep stock of kitchen utensils. Provide cleaning services in restrooms,
Refill hand wash liquid soap, re-place toilet papers, hand towels and
refresheners, Empty and wash waste bins, Keep and maintain cleaning
materials and equipment, Report broken cleaning machines and equipment’s,
cleaning of machines (microwares, vacuum cleaners etc.) and equipment’s
after use, request cleaning materials.
ENQUIRIES : For Mopani: Mr P Malesa, Ms KS Mabunda, Ms P Bila Tel No: (015) 811
4000/4070/4075.
For Waterberg: Ms Rammala MY and Ms PE Hlaole Tel No: (014) 718
3000/3040/3052/3027.
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE
Department of Sport, Arts & Culture is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear
employment equity targets Women and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICANTS : should apply using E-Recruitment system at
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za, click on browse jobs and select
Department of Sport, Arts and Culture.
CLOSING DATE : 10 August 2026
NOTE : Applicants will be assisted to apply through the E-recruitment system at The
Department of Sport, Arts and Culture, 21 Biccard Street, Polokwane, Olympic
Towers Applications are hereby invited for filling of vacant posts, which exist in
the Limpopo Department of Sport, Arts and Culture. Applicants with foreign
qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their qualifications are
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide
proof of such evaluation. Notes: Department of Sport, Arts & Culture is an equal
opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment equity targets.
Certified copies of educational qualifications, academic records, identity
documents and a valid driver’s license (where required) are only required to be
presented on the day of the interview. Faxed or e-mailed applications will not
be considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will result in the
candidate being disqualified. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. However, should there be any dissatisfaction; applicants are
hereby advised to seek reasons for the above administration action in terms of
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA), Act No.3 of 2000. Pre-Entry
Assessments: All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must
be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score
both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process.
Practical Exercise (a) All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
(b) The assessment must comprise a formal test to determine a candidate's
proficiency in core functions and the technical dimensions specified in the job
advertisement. https://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/documents/ep/2024 All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity The closing date for submission of applications is the 10 August 2026.
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to security clearance and pre-
employment verifications. Successful incumbent will be expected to sign a
performance agreement within one month after assumption of duty. The
successful candidate will also be required to disclose their financial interest in
accordance with the prescribed regulations. The advert will be posted on the
following websites www.sac.limpopo.gov.za / www.limpopo.gov.za, and
www.dpsa.gov.za
286
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 25/454 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SPORT AND RECREATION REF NO: DSAC 2026/01
Re-advertisement, Applicants who applied before are encouraged to apply
again
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package) of
which 30% may be structured according to the individual’s needs
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced Diploma (NQF level 07) in Sport Management,
Sport Sciences/ Management / Sport Administration qualification or equivalent
qualification related to the field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5)
years experience at Senior Management level. Extensive experience in sport
and recreation services. SMS pre-entry (Nyukela) certificate upon
appointment. A valid driver’s license (with the exception of persons with
disabilities). Core And Process Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership; People Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project
Management; Financial Management; Change Management; Computer
Literacy; Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation; Problem
Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer Focus; Communication;
Public Service Knowledge; Negotiation, Policy formulation and Analytic
thinking. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the public services. Knowledge of the relevant
sport and recreation legislation. Thorough understanding of policy formulation
and coordination. Good background in service delivery, turn around and
change management strategy.
DUTIES : Provide leadership and high-level strategic direction and policy to the branch.
Undertake, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the strategic plans of
the chief directorate. Establish strategic direction of the branch to ensure
alignment with business plans. Manage sport and recreation services.
Coordinate processes for the upgrading of sport and recreation facilities
created by local authorities. Develop and manage the implementation of
seamless sport support programs, governance structures, coaching and
technical officiating. Manage sport and recreation services. Ensure
development and implementation of best practice manuals for the
implementation of sport and recreation programs. Develop mechanisms for
unlocking resources to extend the provision of sport and recreation services.
Manage the development of provincial policy framework for sport and
recreation governance. Develop a stimulating working environment for staff
through leadership and sound management and development strategy.
Enhance and maintain employee motivation and cultivate a culture of
performance management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/455 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: COMPETITIVE SPORT REF NO: DSAC 2026/02
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package) of
which 30% may be structured according to the individual’s needs
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Sport Management/ Sport
Sciences/ Sport Administration qualification or equivalent qualification related
to the field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) – five (5) years of
experience in Sport environment, of which 3 years must be at an Assistant
Director level (Junior Management). A valid driver’s license (except for persons
with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of public service
administration procedures and policies, Batho Pele Principles, analytical
thinking, conflict resolution, interpersonal relations, problem solving, planning
& organising, change / diversity management, research skills, computer
literacy, good communication skills, client orientated skills, report writing skills;
facilitation skills, co-ordination skills, liaison skills, computer literacy and
networking.
DUTIES : Provincial Strategy and Programme Planning: Develop and implement
provincial competitive sport strategies aligned with national policies and
frameworks, coordinate the development of Annual Performance Plans
287
(APPs), Operational Plans, and reporting frameworks. Align district plans and
targets with provincial priorities and ensure uniform implementation across all
districts. integrate competitive sport programmes with school sport, club
development, and high-performance pathways. Review and refine policies and
programmes to improve effectiveness and service delivery. Coordination of
Provincial Competitive Sport Programmes: Provide strategic management and
coordination of provincial competitive sport programmes and major events.
Coordinate inter-district, provincial, and national participation programmes and
ensure readiness of teams. Manage the implementation of talent identification
and athlete development systems across districts. Ensure standardisation,
quality assurance, and equitable delivery of programmes in all districts. Monitor
programme performance and support districts to address implementation
challenges. Stakeholder and Intergovernmental Coordination: Establish and
maintain strategic partnerships with sport federations, municipalities, schools,
and national stakeholders. Facilitate coordination between provincial office and
district sport units to ensure integrated service delivery. Represent the province
in national, interprovincial, and sector forums and structures. Manage service
level agreements (SLAs) and collaborative programmes with stakeholders.
Promote stakeholder participation in talent identification, athlete development,
and competitive events. Financial and Resource Management: Manage and
monitor the competitive sport budget in compliance with PFMA and
departmental policies. Oversee allocation and utilisation of resources including
equipment, attire, transport, and logistics. Ensure proper procurement
processes and contract management for service providers. Monitor
expenditure, prevent irregular/fruitless expenditure, and ensure value for
money. Support financial planning and budgeting processes linked to
programme priorities. Governance, Risk and Compliance: Ensure compliance
with PFMA, Public Service Regulations, and departmental policies. Develop
and implement risk management strategies within competitive sport
programmes. Ensure accurate, credible, and verifiable reporting and
maintenance of supporting evidence. Address audit findings and implement
corrective action plans. Promote ethical conduct, accountability, and proper
record-keeping within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/456 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SPORT & RECREATION REF NO: DSAC 2026/03
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Waterberg District
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Sport Management/Sport
Sciences/ Sport Administration qualification or equivalent qualification related
to the field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) – five (5) years of
experience in Sport and Recreation environment, of which 3 years must be at
an Assistant Director level (Junior Management). A valid driver’s license
(except for persons with disabilities).Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of
public service administration procedures and policies, Batho Pele Principles,
analytical thinking, conflict resolution, interpersonal relations, problem solving,
planning & organising, change / diversity management, research skills,
computer literacy, good communication skills, client orientated skills, report
writing skills; facilitation skills, co-ordination skills, liaison skills, computer
literacy and networking.
DUTIES : Coordinate school sport programs: Organise Sporting events, organise school
events., coordinate registration of schools for leagues, and support school
sport structure. Coordinate recreation programs: Organise Recreation events,
co-ordinate recreation council activities, co-ordinate elderly recreation
activities, institute recreation council in municipalities, monitor and evaluate
functionality of Recreation hubs and integrate the Sport hub system with district
and local municipalities. Coordinate Sport stakeholders: Support Federations,
co-ordinate activities of all stakeholders, co-ordinate the capacity building of
stakeholders and support IGR fora. Coordinate Sport development programs:
Co-ordinate the establishment of community sport, organise and facilitate sport
programs, establish, monitor sport structures, support communities with
technical expertise and provide support to District Confederation and District
Academy. Risk management: Plan events in compliance of SASREA Act,
288
identify all protocols risks in events and report them, prevent adverse audit
findings in sport events and provide risk aversion strategies in events.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/457 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CULTURE AND CREATIVE INDUSTRIES REF NO:
DSAC 2026/04
Re-Advertisement, Applicants who applied before are encouraged to apply
again.
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Arts and Cultural Studies or
equivalent qualification related to the field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum
of three (3) – five (5) years of experience in Culture and Creative Industries
environment, of which 3 years must be at an Assistant Director level (Junior
Management). A valid driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities).
Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge: Sound and in-depth knowledge of All Arts
and Cultural legislative frameworks. In-depth knowledge of the legislative and
regulatory frameworks governing the Public Service. Human Resource
Management principles. Skills: Applied Strategic Thinking, Creative Thinking,
Citizen Service Orientation, Decision Making, Communication and Information
Management, Diversity Management, Citizenship focus and responsiveness,
Continuous Improvement, Communication and information management,
Problem Analysis and decision-making, Applying Technology, Budgeting and
Financial Management, Networking and building bonds, Project Management,
Team leadership, Planning and Organising, Developing Others, Self-
Management, Team Membership, Report writing skills, Facilitation,
Presentation and Stakeholders Engagement, Research/Analysing,
Interpersonal Relationship skills, Analytical Thinking skills, Ability to self-
motivate and work in a team environment. Advanced human resource
management.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of performing arts services: Develop and promote
performing arts programmes, provide support to emerging artists and arts and
culture structures, coordinate and promote performing arts events, festivals
and other related initiatives, develop business and project plans for performing
arts events and projects and manage the development, implementation and
monitoring of performing arts policies. Manage the development of visual arts
Industry in the province: Coordinate planning and executions of visual arts,
craft, design programmes, exhibition and trade fairs, establish and maintain
visual arts committees in the province, facilitate interaction and provide
professional advice to all relevant stakeholders in the sector and research
development initiatives in the sector, provide support and create income
generating opportunities for emerging artists and crafters and develop and
implement policies related to visual arts, craft and design. Manage the
development and distribution of local film and video: Identify, nurture, and
mentor emerging talent in film and video. Provide opportunities to previously
disadvantaged communities, ensure identification and nurturing of talent in film
and video, promote the use of local content on television, provide support to
any person or organisation participating in film and video, manage the
development and implementation of film and video policies and procedures and
develop and implement a marketing plan for film and video. Manage and utilise
human, physical and financial resources in accordance with relevant directives
and legislation: Evaluate and monitor performance of employees, ensure
capacity and development of staff, enhance and maintain employee motivation
and cultivate a culture of performance management, develop a stimulating
working environment for staff through leadership and sound management and
development strategy and manage discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
289
POST 25/458 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LIBRARY AND INFORMATION SERVICES REF NO:
DSAC 2026/05
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Information Science/Library
Science /Archives and Records Management or equivalent qualification related
to the field as recognized by SAQA A minimum of three (3) – five (5) years of
experience in Library environment, of which 3 years must be at an Assistant
Director level (Junior Management). A valid driver’s license (except for persons
with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge: Systems management /
integrated electronic library and information systems, budgeting and financial
management, project management, communication, policy management and
reporting. Skills: Leadership, interpersonal, negotiation and consultation,
problem solving, planning and organising, conflict management and
presentation.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation and maintenance of ICT infrastructure in
community libraries: Monitor installation of library security systems in
community libraries and conduct quality assurance, facilitate the maintenance
and the renewal of maintenance contract of library security systems,
verification of invoices and quotation for installation of security systems
correspond before payment and manage budget for implementation and
installation of security systems. Manage and co-ordinate the implementation of
library management systems in the Province: Liaise with line managers
responsible for projects to ensure that projects are implemented according to
business plan, generate submissions for approval of projects and procurement
of services, monitor implementation of projects, for example, submission of
parameters to service provider, configuration of libraries, develop and
implement policies and procedure manuals regarding library systems, attend
SLA meeting library management systems and co-ordinate Service Level
Agreement with stakeholders. Manage, monitor and support provision of
processed library material to community libraries: Ensure the monitoring of
cataloguing and classification of library material in the province is done
according to approved service standards, oversee that processed material are
distributed to district libraries and further cycled to their respective service
points, ensure that catalogue records are edited before printing of catalogue
cards and manage the bar coding and linking of library material at district
libraries. Manage training of library staff on library management systems:
Ensure that training needs are received from district libraries, consolidated and
forwarded to service provider, liaise with service provider on training schedules,
manage and ensue availability of training resources within the sub-directorate,
edit the training report and submit to management and monitoring section and
evaluate the impact of training and manage the implementation of an in-house
training.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/459 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACADEMY OF SPORT REF NO: DSAC 2026/06
One (1) year contract
Re-Advertisement, Applicants who applied before are encouraged to apply
again.
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma A three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s Degree in
Sport Management or equivalent qualification related to the field as recognized
by SAQA. A minimum 5 years of experience in Sport environment, of which 3
years must be at an Assistant Director level (Junior Management). A valid
driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities). Skills And Knowledge:
Knowledge: Knowledge of Public Service administration Procedures and
Policies, knowledge of Batho Pele Principles, analytical thinking, conflict
resolution, interpersonal relations, problem solving, planning & organising,
change / Diversity management. Skills: Research skills, computer literacy,
290
good Communication skills, client orientated skills, report writing skills;
Facilitation skills, co-ordination skills, liaison skills, typing skills and networking.
DUTIES : Sport Science and medicine support: Coordinate sport specific testing using
scientific protocols, facilitate physiotherapy services for athletes, facilitate
medical services for athletes and facilitate rehabilitation programmes for
athletes. Coaching: Train elite coaches, provide qualified elite coaches to
selected talented athletes, deploy head coaches during training camps and
championships, provide access to information and the latest trends on
coaching performance squad and events: Facilitate life skills workshops, liaise
with clubs, federations and confederations, develop sport specific tactics and
techniques programmes and coordinate exchange programmes. Talent
identification: Deploy scouts, facilitate access to conducive facilities, monitor
usage of correct selection criteria and capture data of the selected athletes into
the academy database. Management of human and financial capital in the
division: Manage performance and development of employees within the
division, develop, implement and monitor service standards and operational
plans, develop, review and ensure compliance to applicable policies and
strategies, conduct budget planning and monitor utilisation in accordance with
applicable prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/460 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGY AND POLICY DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
DSAC 2026/07
Re-advertisement, Applicants who applied before are encouraged to apply
again.
SALARY : R932 292 per annum Level (11), (all-inclusive remuneration package consists
of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension Fund, a
medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Strategy and Policy
Development /Development Studies / Public Policy or equivalent qualification
related to the field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years’ experience
in Strategic Planning and Policy Development environment, of which 3 years
must be at an Assistant Director level (Junior Management). A valid driver’s
license (except for persons with disabilities). Skills And Knowledge:
Knowledge: Sounds and knowledge of PFMA, government planning
framework, government planning cycle (MTEF and strategic planning), public
service legislation and policy frameworks, national and provincial development
plans, research development frameworks, strategic planning, policy
development processes and research processes, understanding of Batho Pele
Principles. Skills: Applied Strategic Thinking, Creative Thinking, Citizen Service
Orientation, Communication and Information Management, Diversity
Management, Citizenship focus and responsiveness, Continuous
Improvement, Communication and information management, Problem
Analysis and decision-making, Applying Technology (MS Office: Word, Excel,
Power Point, outlook etc)., Budgeting and Financial Management, Networking
and building bonds, Project Management, Team leadership, Policy formulation,
analysis and development ,Planning and Organising, Developing Others,
Report writing skills, Facilitation and presentation , Stakeholders Engagement,
Research/Analysing, Interpersonal Relationship skills, formulation and editing,
Ability to work under pressure, self-motivate and work in a team environment.
DUTIES : Manage the departmental strategic and annual operational planning
processes: Coordinate Departmental strategic, annual and operational
planning sessions. Develop, maintain and communicate planning policies and
procedures. Implement the Framework for Strategic Plans and annual
performance plans, record departmental planning sessions proceedings,
consolidate strategic plans, annual performance plans and operational plans,
facilitate the alignment of departmental strategy to the government priorities,
support programme managers on planning concepts and tools and facilitate
production of strategic, annual performance and operational plans and
submission to designated places. Facilitate development and review of
departmental policies: Provide technical support on policy development, review
policies for alignment to with provincial and the national policies, develop,
maintain and communicate policy guidelines, develop and maintain repository
for departmental policies and procedures, coordinate the development of
291
departmental policy implementation plans and monitor the implementation of
the policy action plan. Coordinate development and manage implementation
of the research agenda: Facilitate the approval of research proposals at the
provincial research and research ethics committees, collect, store, analyse and
disseminate research information and support Line Managers in
implementation of research recommendations and findings. Manage the sub-
directorate resources and performance: General supervision of employees,
allocate duties and perform quality control on the work delivered by
supervisees, advice and lead supervisees regarding all aspects of the work,
manage performance, conduct and discipline of supervisees and ensure that
all supervisees are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the
required standard efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/461 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ARTS AND CULTURE REF NO: DSAC 2026/08
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Arts and Culture studies,
Heritage and Cultural Studies or equivalent qualification related to the field as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ supervisory experience in Arts
and Culture at salary level 7/8. Valid driver's license (except for persons with
disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Sound and in-depth knowledge of All
relevant Arts Culture, Heritage, Language, Creative prescripts and all relevant
legislative frameworks that govern the Public Service. Project Management.
Advanced computer skills. Planning and organising. Financial Management.
Communication skills. Report writing skills. Advanced Human Resource
management. Facilitation skills. Budgeting Research.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development of visual performing arts in the districts, implement
and maintain policies related to visual and performing arts. Render professional
advice to all relevant stakeholders on visual and performing arts activities.
Render language and heritage services. Establish and maintain visual arts,
literature and heritage committees in the province, provide support, including
but not limited to financial support, to any person or institutions needing
assistance. Organize regular trainings and create marketing platforms in
languages, heritage and arts and culture to ensure sustainability of industry.
Facilitate the development and promoting of emerging artists, crafters and
authors as well as monitor projects related to visual, performing arts, heritage
and literature. Facilitate the development and distribution of local theatre
productions, film and video content. Supervise employees to ensure an
effective visual and performing arts service. Manage the development of
database for visual arts, crafters, authors, and living heritage treasures. Identify
and select potential artists through competitions and auditions. Identify and
support visual, performing arts, heritage, theatre, languages, film and video
projects. Provide opportunities to previously disadvantaged communities.
Identify and nature talent in theatre, film and video. Identify and nurture talent
in Theatre, Film and Video industries. Promote the use of local content on
television, provincial, national theatres and media platforms. Provide support
to any person or organisation participating in Theatre, Film and Video industries
Develop and implement a marketing plan for Theatre, Film and Video
industries. Develop and maintain the District Performing Artists, Craft, Theatre,
Film and Video Databases. Provide leadership and guidance to subordinates,
evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of employees, lead and adopt
best practices, conduct performance assessment of subordinates. Ensure that
all supervisees are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the
required standard efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/462 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LIBRARY AND ARCHIVES SERVICES (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Vhembe District Ref No: DSAC 2026/09
Capricorn District Ref No: DSAC 2026/10
Sekhukhune District Ref No: DSAC 2026/11
292
Waterberg District Ref No: DSAC 2026/12
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Information Science/Library
Science /Archives and Records Management or equivalent qualification related
to the field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ supervisory
experience in the library environment at salary level 7/8. A valid driver's license
(except for persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge: Batho
Pele Principles, Public Regulation, policies and procedures, administrative
procedures and norms and standards, knowledge of National and Limpopo
Provincial Act, PAIA, POPI and PFMA, Minimum to Security Standard (MISS)
Act, knowledge of Electronic records Management System such as Atom and
SLIMS, knowledge of Archival standards such as ISAD(G), ISAAAR(CPF),
ISDIAH, ISDF, EAD. Skills: Computer Literacy, communication skills (verbally
and written), people management, project management, basic interpersonal
skill, leadership, team building, planning, problem-solving, goal-oriented,
motivating, time management, organization and planning, analytical skills,
research and presentation skill and interviewing skills.
DUTIES : Coordination and Management of Library Services: Develop and implement
district library support programs in collaboration with municipalities, monitor
and evaluate the functionality and performance of community libraries,
coordinate collection development, distribution and replenishment of library
materials to public libraries and monitor compliance with library and information
legislation and policies. Management of Archival and Records Services:
Oversee the acquisition, appraisal, and preservation of public and private
archival collections, ensure compliance with records management policies in
provincial departments and municipalities, provide training and support to
governmental bodies on records classification systems and disposal plans and
maintain and update archival databases for improved access and reference
services and monitor compliance with records management legislation and
policies. Stakeholder Engagement and Intergovernmental Relations: Facilitate
partnerships with local municipalities, NGOs, and national bodies to enhance
library and archival services, represent the department in district and provincial
forums on library and archive development, coordinate community
engagement initiatives to promote awareness of library and heritage services
and advise municipalities on compliance with the Minimum Norms and
Standards for public libraries. Outreach and Awareness Programmes: Promote
library and archive services through marketing and outreach activities, develop
partnerships with local stakeholders and institutions, conduct and manage
community awareness programs and campaigns and represent the
department in stakeholder engagements and plenary meetings. Administration
and Resource Management: Prepare district-level operational plan
performance targets with budget, and procurement plans, supervise and
mentor staff, including conducting performance reviews and skills development
plans, consolidate monthly, quarterly, and annual performance and compliance
reports and contribute and attend planning sessions for development of the
annual performance plan and the annual operational plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/463 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT SERVICES REF NO: DSAC
2026/13
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Risk Management/Auditing,
Public Management /Administration or related field. A minimum of 3 years’
supervisory experience in risk management environment at salary level 7/8. A
valid driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities). Knowledge And
Skills: Sounds working knowledge of the legislative requirements relating to
ERM. Good understanding of integrated Risk Management principles and
practices. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Understanding of ISO 22301 and ISO 22313 Frameworks. Knowledge of good
practice guidance on business continuity management. Knowledge of Treasury
Regulations. Understanding Public Service Regulations. Good communication
skills (written and spoken). Good computer literacy and use of standard
packages. Research and project management skills. Ability to liaise with and
coordinate stakeholder engagements. Knowledge of policy development,
analysis and implementation. Organisational, planning and co-ordination skills.
293
Facilitation and presentation skills. Management and Organisational skills.
Negotiation and consultation skills.
DUTIES : Coordinating and providing technical and administrative support on corporate
governance, departmental enterprise risk management, developing and
monitoring the implementation of the Business Continuity Plan. Developing
and reviewing framework for Enterprise Risk Management. Benchmarking with
the best practices in Risk Management to review the Risk Management
Frameworks. Implementing the reviewed Risk Management Framework.
Developing the risk appetite and tolerance framework and implementation
thereof. Facilitating the development of the departmental Combined Assurance
Plan. Coordinate and Provide secretariat services to the Risk Management
Committee (RMC). Coordinate and provide secretarial services to the Business
Continuity Management Committee. Coordinate the facilitation of the
departmental risk identification and assessment workshops including events
and departmental sisters. Capturing and updating risk management reports
into the Barnow System.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/464 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ETHICS AND INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DSAC 2026/14
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Risk Management/ Auditing
and Human Resource Management or equivalent qualification. A Certificate in
Criminal Justice and Forensic investigations will be an added advantage. A
minimum of 3 years’ supervisory experience in Ethics and Integrity
Management environment at salary level 7/8. A valid driver’s license level
(except for persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Public service
transformation and management issues, White Paper on transformation of
Public Service, Public Service Act, Ability to convert policy into action, Public
Service Regulations and relevant prescripts, Departmental policies and
procedures, Batho Pele principles, Treasury Regulations, Minimum Information
Security Standards, Public Finance Management Act, National Anti-Corruption
Strategy, Skills development. Skills: Diplomacy, Project Management,
Interpersonal relations, Communication, Conflict Management, Problem
solving.
DUTIES : Coordinate and implement National Anti-Corruption Strategy, Fraud Prevention
Plan a Ethics Strategy, Policies and Programmes in the Department.
Coordinate implementation report on ethics policies. Promotion of the financial
disclosure framework in the Department. Conduct investigations of all reported
cases and monitor the resolutions of disciplinary processes in the Department.
Conduct impact and knowledge reviews on Fraud and Corruption with relevant
stakeholders. Coordinate Ethics Committee and provide secretarial services.
The development and maintenance of the internal anti-corruption systems and
update databases. Provide advice on matters of anti-fraud and corruption.
Analysing the corruption and fraud cases to inform the Fraud Prevention Plan
and conduct awareness to the employees of the Department on Fraud
Prevention, Fraud Risks and Integrity Management. Facilitate the procurement
of promotional material. Reviewing the Anti-Fraud and Corruption framework
in line with relevant prescripts and guidelines. Drafting of progress status report
on cases of fraud and corruption against the department to be presented to the
Risk Management, COPCOC and Audit Committees on quarterly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/465 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION COMMUNICATION &
TECHNOLOGY SYSTEM REF NO: DSAC 2026/15
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Information Technology,
Computer Science, Informatics or equivalent qualification related to the field as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ supervisory experience in
Information Communication & Technology System at salary level 7/8. A valid
driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills:
294
Knowledge: Microsoft exchange and office suites, networks, switches, cabling
and wireless devices, legislation and policies governing ICT in South Africa,
international standards pertaining to ICT, information management and SITA
services. Skills: Problem solving and analysis, decision making, team
leadership, creativity, financial management, customer focus and
responsiveness, communication, computer skills, people management, conflict
management, planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Render ICT infrastructure services: Installation and configuration of computers,
laptops and printers, provide 1st line support to all users in conjunction with
contracted service providers, maintenance of computer equipment, serves,
storage, server environment controls and network apparatus, take charge of
any new projects that pertain to IT, process orders for the directorate and
process invoices for the directorate. Update anti-virus software, standardize
desktop software and server updates: Update anti-virus software, update
software and patches on server infrastructure, update user’s software to the
recommended and prescribed software, re-install any software that is corrupt,
install all new additional software and maintain the software in general. Manage
and maintain network: Deploy and monitor switches, routers, security devices
including updates and firmware upgrades, manage internet bandwidth, identify
new network and wireless access point connectivity, LAN repairs, and ensure
that data cabinets are maintained with adequate space on patch panels and
ensure that DRP equipment is fully operational and fully functional at all times
Manage the development and implementation of a DRP (Disaster recovery
plan). Provide ICT assets: Identify and compile needs for new equipment’s,
compile report for equipment’s that has to be written off or replaced, provide
electronic ICT assets register, facilitate disposal of redundant ICT
infrastructure, draft specifications and process motivations for procurement
and ensure that the department gets value for money and that latest
technological equipment and peripherals purchased. Human Resource
Management: Advice business units for budget on ICT services, management
of the unit’s staff, report on the utilization of equipment’s, evaluate and monitor
performance and appraisal of subordinates, capacitate and develop
subordinates, enhance and maintain subordinate’s motivation and cultivate a
culture of performance management, facilitate discipline, provide job
description to subordinates and manage leave matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/466 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EVENTS MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSAC 2026/16
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate Qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 06) in Media
Studies / Communications / Public Relation / Events Management / Graphic
Design or equivalent qualification related to the field as recognized by SAQA.
A minimum of 3 years’ supervisory experience in Events
Management/Communications/Media Relations/Public Relations/Public
Sector Corporate Communication at salary level 7/8. A valid driver’s license
(except for persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Advance events
management, computer literacy, graphic designer, project management and
good communication skills; Digital communications skills, presentation skills,
report writing, stakeholder engagement skills; research management skills,
Computer literacy not limited to PowerPoint and excel, report writing skills and
professional writing; professional negotiating skills; planning; organizing,
leading and coordinating departmental events.
DUTIES : Designing publications and managing corporate brand compliance when
managing, organizing, facilitating, and coordinating departmental events.
Facilitate and coordinate the management of events preparatory meetings and
development of events management plan: Monitor the compilation of events
calendar, facilitate communication with various stakeholders for the logistics of
events, facilitate compilation and updating of guest list in line with the nature of
the event, ensure all stakeholders are invited for all events, extend invites to
departmental workforce for assistant and ensure attendance registers and
guest lists are preserved. Facilitation and coordination of logistical
arrangements of the event: Conducting environmental scan, to assist in the
identification of suitable venues for events, drawing of ground plans of every
event, research and facilitate drafting of specifications, facilitate processing of
295
memos, facilitate putting of tents, sound & stage for every event. Facilitation
and coordination in development departmental year plan/events calendar:
Managing events calendar, consolidate and circulate bi-weekly. Facilitate
development of checklist for respective events, facilitate drafting of invitations,
agendas and distributing to stakeholders, facilitate drafting of programmes for
the events, co-ordinate all preparatory meetings. Facilitation and Coordination
protocol arrangements: Facilitate and render protocol services in all
departmental events, organise ushers, facilitate and coordinate the availability
of briefing rooms of the events, facilitate proper sitting arrangements, ensure
correct application and management of the official order of precedence, and
facilitate correct seniority placement at all official ceremonial functions.
Consolidate report for each programme- pre-during and post events.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/467 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: DSAC 2026/17
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Media Studies /
Communications / Public Relation / Journalism / Marketing / Communications/
Graphic design / Digital Communications or equivalent qualification related to
the field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ supervisory
experience in Communications / Digital Communications / Marketing / Public
Relations / Events Management at salary level 7/8. A valid driver’s license
(except for persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge:
Legislative prescripts or framework, constitution, PFMA, communication
policies, Event Management policies including stakeholder engagement and
management; PAIA. Skills: Digital Communication skills, project management
skills; report writing, news story writing; graphic designing skills, research skills,
stakeholder engagement skills; research management skills, Computer literacy
not limited to PowerPoint and excel, graphic design skills, presentation skills,
report writing skills and professional story writing; professional negotiating
skills; planning; organizing, leading and coordinating departmental
communications programmes.
DUTIES : Designing publications (poster/flyers/annual reports, brochures), managing
corporate brand compliance, creating digital assets for social media, and
overseeing the production of print and multimedia materials. Manage
Departmental corporate image promote good image of the department.
Manage corporate communications through intranet not limited to emails and
noticeboards. Manage external and internal media coverage of departmental
events, consolidate Media Releases/Statements/Invitations for mainstream
media and digital media/digital media. Assist in organizing Media
Briefings/Launch and Press Conferences/ Organize Information Sessions,
Networking Sessions with the Media. Assist is managing departmental social
media platforms and website updates. Promote good image of the department
through social media platforms. Facilitate coverage of Departmental events
and programs for publishing and promotion. News story writing; Recording
Videos and capturing Images for internal and external publications and social
media Platforms and facilitating and Recording interviews during events for
social media marketing and promotion. Assist in developing and implementing
Communications policy and strategies. Monitor the implementation of
communication strategy. Conduct media scanning. Ensure that media
monitoring plan developed and implemented. Assist in broadening public
participation of communities. Design and develop corporate communication
materials and ensuring adherence to communications policies and framework.
Assist in developing/designing content for flyers, banners, signboards,
Brochures and Booklets. Maintain the Corporate image of the department.
Ensure that the Departmental logo is properly used on all promotional material,
not limited to Banners, Signboards, Posters, Letterheads, Nametags, and other
materials produced in the name of the department Proofreading of the material
prior to printing and text. Marketing departmental programmes/events. ensure
that advertisements placed on Newspapers bear proper identity of the
department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
296
POST 25/468 : SPORT PROMOTION OFFICER: SPORT DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DSAC
2026/18
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Sport Management or
equivalent qualification related to the field recognised by SAQA. A minimum 2
years’ experience in Sport environment. A valid driver’s license (except for
person with disabilities). Skills And Knowledge Must have facilitation and
presentation skills, Excellent verbal communication, reading and writing skills;
project planning and report writing, problem solving skills, good interpersonal
relationships and ability to work under pressure and excellent computer skills.
DUTIES : Promoting, coordinating, and supporting the development and sustainability of
sport clubs and community-based sport structures within the district: Facilitate
the establishment, registration, and strengthening of clubs, ensuring
compliance with governance principles, federation requirements, and
applicable legislation: Coordinate and implement sport development
programmes, leagues, tournaments, championships, and community
participation initiatives aimed at increasing access to sport and recreation
opportunities for all age groups, genders, and persons with disabilities: Create
an enabling environment for identifying and nurturing sporting talent, facilitating
capacity-building programmes for club administrators, coaches, technical
officials, and volunteers, and strengthening institutional capacity within the
sport sector: Establish and maintain partnerships with municipalities, sport
federations, sport confederation, academies of sport, community
organizations, and other stakeholders to ensure integrated planning and
implementation of sport programmes: Coordinate sport events and projects,
collect, analyse, compile, and maintain sport participation data and stakeholder
information, prepare performance and compliance reports, and monitor
programme outcomes to support evidence-based decision-making: Provide
administrative and technical support regarding sport facilities, infrastructure,
and equipment management, including the maintenance of inventory systems
and the monitoring of equipment allocation and utilization: Assist in the
administration, monitoring, and reporting of funded sport projects and transfer
payments to ensure compliance with financial and governance requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/469 : CULTURAL OFFICER REF NO: DSAC 2026/19
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Arts and Cultural Studies or
equivalent qualification related to the field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum
of 2 years’ experience in Arts and Culture. A valid Driver’s License (except for
persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Sound and in-depth
knowledge of All relevant Cultural and Creative prescripts and all relevant
legislative frameworks that govern the Public Service, project management,
computer skills, planning and organising, Financial Management,
communication skills, report writing skills analytical skills, presentation skills,
research skills, motivational skills, cultural development skills and diversity
management.
DUTIES : Identify, develop and promote (emerging) artists and crafters as well as
implementing projects related to performing and visual arts and craft: Facilitate
transformation of performing and visual arts to impact on socio-economic
development, promote and develop community/public based arts, culture and
heritage programmes, establish and maintain partnerships with relevant
stakeholders, manage the implementation of youth development programmes
and projects, promote socio-cultural development of vulnerable groups, identity
and support the development of high impact job creation areas and skills
development in arts, culture and heritage sector and promote the culture of
reading and writing, promotion and development of craft, music sector and
technical service industries and multimedia (audio-visual, design, visual arts)
sector. Create awareness programmes for craft, performing and visual arts:
Design and conduct awareness campaigns to promote arts and culture
programmes, liaise with all relevant stakeholders, promote usage of Arts
Centres and integrated crafts hubs and promote and develop community/public
297
based arts and culture programmes. Conduct needs analysis and provide
professional advice on performing, visual arts and crafts: Conduct research on
arts and culture programmes, coordinate the establishment and provide
support to arts and culture structures, implement policies and strategies for
arts, culture matters and provide advice to all relevant stakeholders on arts and
culture matters. Render administrative functions in relation to programmes that
are implemented: Monitor and evaluate funded projects and programmes,
develop and maintain database of arts, culture and heritage institutions,
provide administrative and technical support with regard to arts and culture
programmes and monitor the implementation of approved programmes for all
funded organisations and institutions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/470 : MUSEUM HUMAN SCIENTIST REF NO: DSAC 2026/20
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Dzata Museum (Vhembe District)
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor/Diploma’s Degree NQF level 06/07 in Heritage Management /
Museum Studies, Indigenous Knowledge System or equivalent qualification
related to the field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience
in museum environment. A valid driver’s license (Except for people with
disability). Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of museum practices and
collection management, knowledge of National Heritage Act 25 of 1999,
Knowledge of South African Heritage Resource Act, research and analytical
abilities, Supervision skill, Administration procedures relating to museums
including norms and standards, planning and organizing, reporting procedures,
procurement directives, conflict resolution, project management, analytical
thinking, marketing communications, research, interpersonal relationship,
problem solving, maintaining discipline, team building, presentation and
communication skills.
DUTIES : Management and administration of museum: Managing all museological
functions according to the museum sciences, supervision of museum staff,
management and administration, in charge of all the departmental assets at
museum, transport management and administration at museum, procurement
submissions and Indigenous Knowledge Systems Management. Cultural /
natural collection management (conservation, preservation and interpretation:
Management of all the museum collection, acquisition according to museum
guidelines and specifications, going on collection and acquisition trips to gather
a representative collection according to the theme of Dzata Museum,
documentation according to museum standards, all articles and artefacts to be
regularly inspected, cleaned, treated with pesticides and fungicides,
storerooms according to museum specification, the museum annually treated
by pest control, research on products, processes and artefacts: All articles and
collections and exhibitions to be interpreted according to researched
information, contact and guidance to researches, contact with tertiary
institutions, communication with communities, take photographs, audio
recordings, and video documentation of artefacts and processes, conduct
fieldwork to collect primary data from communities and sites, conduct informal
educational programmes (museum information dissemination, research
constantly to be done for all educational programmes, marketing and
promotion, exhibitions and exhibition management, guided tours and talks;
school groups, presentations, participation at shows, festivals and other
events, planning and organizing special events at the museum, tour guiding
training, professional publications, brochures and pamphlets production.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/471 : LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER: SIGN LANGUAGE REF NO: DSAC 2026/21
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Languages / Language
Practice with specialization in sign language as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of 2 years of experience in the Translation field will be an added
advantage. A valid driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities). Skills
And Knowledge: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
298
application of human resources as well as understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service such as: Employment Equity Act, Skills
Development Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, (Limpopo Language
Policy, White paper on an Integrated National, Disability Strategy, Promotion of
Access of Information Act, Public Service Regulations, Bargaining Council
Resolutions. Skills: Sign Language Interpreting skills, people management,
planning & organizing, time management, strategic planning, policy analysis
and development, good communication skills, facilitation skills and co-
ordination skills.
DUTIES : Provide SASL interpreting services: Interpret spoken language into South
African Sign Language (SASL) and vice versa in meetings, departmental
events and official engagements, interpret from South African Sign Language
(SASL) to voice and from voice to sign language and translate documents,
speeches, or audio content into SASL and/or video formats. Monitor the
implementation of SASL services: Ensure that departments utilise standard
SASL interpretating services, attend to queries regarding Sign Language
service, advocating for SASL Charter, promote language rights, especially
SASL and facilitate the development of systems to ensure access to
information by Deaf people. Promote development of languages: Participate in
languages development, especially SASL, harvest terminology, provide SASL
terminology equivalents for specific fields, promote authenticated terminology
and promote multilingualism. Promote use of languages: Create awareness on
SASL and Deaf culture in the Department, render administrative functions in
relation to SASL and other Language Services functions, liaise with
stakeholders on use of SASL, coordinate and conduct SASL workshops in the
Department and create a platform for the expansion of pool of SASL literate
employees in the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/472 : LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER: SEPEDI REF NO: DSAC 2026/22
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Languages / Language
Practice with specialization in Sepedi or equivalent qualification related to the
field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years of experience in the
Translation field will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license (except for
persons with disabilities). Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of Languages.
Knowledge of Language policies (Limpopo Language Policy). Ability to work
under pressure. Capacity to remain confidential. Communication with
stakeholders. Computer Literacy. Communication skills. Planning and
organizing. Analytical and facilitation skills.
DUTIES : To promote access to information by providing translation, terminology and
literature promotion services. Translating official documents from English into
Sepedi and vice versa. Provide Sepedi term equivalents for terminology
projects. Provide interpreting services when required. Proofreading and
preparing manuscripts for literature promotion. Liaise and meet with
stakeholders for language development projects as well as organizing
language related events such as terminology development projects, literature
promotion events and multilingualism promotion campaigns.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/473 : LIBRARIAN (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Ohrigstad Library Ref No: DSAC 2026/23
Modimolle Library Ref No: DSAC 2026/24
Fetakgomo Library Ref No: DSAC 2026/25
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification NQF level 6 in Library & Information
Studies/Science as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience of
Experience in the library environment. A valid driver's license (except for
persons with disabilities). Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge of Batho Pele
principles, Public Service Regulations, policies, and procedures.
Administration procedures including norms and standards. Basic numeracy.
299
Organizing and planning. Computer literacy. Basic interpersonal relations.
Problem solving. Maintaining discipline.
DUTIES : Market and promote library services. Classify and catalogue library material.
Render reference and information services. Develop a new established library.
Render professional library and information service to the community. Assist
with identifying maintenance needs for the building, equipment, library assets
and material. Manage day to day library operations. Responsible for the
marketing and advocacy of library services and within the library. Facilitate
establishment and full participation of book clubs. Perform necessary library
administrative tasks. Conduct library orientation to users regarding library
usage and retrieval of information. Provide information service to library users.
Monitor library user's statistics and compile reports as required. Assist the
District Librarian to conduct asset verification. Liaise with stakeholders and
district library on library matters. Compile monthly, quarterly, and annual
reports. Supervise library staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/474 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: BUDGET REF NO: DSAC 2026/26
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Financial Management or
equivalent qualification related to the field or equivalent qualification related to
the field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in Finance
Management environment. A valid driver’s license (except for persons with
disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of PFMA, Treasury regulations.
Knowledge of the LOGIS / BAS system. Knowledge of finance, administration,
planning and organising, budgeting and project management. Interpersonal
and computer literacy skills. communication (verbal and written) skills.
DUTIES : Prepare & capture journals: Capturing of budget in the system, requesting
PERSAL report from salary section in order to check all misallocation,
requesting Bas report in order to check all misclassification, preparing of
journals on the sheet, capturing of journals on the BAS system. Prepare IRM
report: Requesting Bas report in order for all infrastructure projects, preparing
of IRM report on a monthly basis, ensure that expenditure is updated, ensure
that the projections for all infrastructure are updated and ensure that the
expenditure is in accordance with projections and is within the allocated
budget. Prepare the monthly expenditure report: Requesting expenditure
report on the system, capture the expenditure on the provided template on a
monthly basis, ensure that all projection per month are updated as per the
projections submitted to Provincial Treasury, ensure that all expenditure per
month are updated and balancing and ensure that all commitment per month
are updated and balanced as per the report on the system. Shifting of funds:
requesting expenditure report on the system before shifting and ensure that
funds are available for shifting, ensure that the shifting of funds is processed
on Bas system, monitoring of the budget on Bas system and request Bas report
after shifting to verify if the shifting was done correctly and send the updated
report to the responsible programme manager. Maintain filling & filling
documentation: Open new files, manage filling systems, collect all
documentations within and outside the department as required by the section
and distribute all documentations within and outside the department as
required by the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/475 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES
REF NO: DSAC 2026/27
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Office Management /
Management Assistant or equivalent qualification related to the field as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience as a Personal
Assistant. A valid Driver’s License (except for persons with disabilities).
Knowledge And Skills: Word processing, managing files and records, obtaining
and disseminating Information, managing requests or enquiries and providing
300
customer and personal services. Good Telephone etiquette, computer literacy,
sound organizing skills, good people skills, basic Interpersonal relationship,
communication skills, organizing skill and client Liaison / Customer care.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial/ receptionist support service to the chief director: Handling
phone calls, in addition to the call for the Chie Director, Discretion is required
to decide to whom the calls should be forwarded. In the process the job
incumbent should finalize some enquiries, performs advanced typing work,
operates and ensures that office equipment, e.g. Fax machines and
photocopies are in good working order, records the engagements of the Chief
Director, utilizes discretion to decide whether to accept/ decline or refer other
employees request for meetings, based on the assessed importance and
urgency of the matter, co-ordinates with and sensitises/ Advises the Chief
Director regarding engagements and compiles realistic schedules of
appointment. Render administrative support services: Process all invoices that
emanates from the activities of the Chief Director’s work, records minutes of
the meetings of the Chief Director where required, drafts routine
correspondences and reports, filing of documents for the Chief Director,
administers matters such as leave registers and telephone accounts, receive
records and distributes all incoming and outgoing documents, handles the
procurement of standard items like stationery, refreshments, etc, collect all
relevant documents to assist the Chief Director to prepare for meetings.
Remains up to date with prescripts/ policies and procedures applicable to his
work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support: study the relevant Public
Service and Departmental prescripts/ policies and other documents to ensure
that the application thereof is understood properly and remains abreast with
the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the Chief Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/476 : LIBRARIAN CPU REF NO: DSAC 2026/28 (X2 POSTS)
(for a period of one (1) year contract)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), plus 37% of lieu benefit
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Library & information Studies
/ Science or equivalent qualification related to the field as recognized by SAQA.
A minimum of 2 years’ experience of Experience in the library environment. A
valid driver's license (except for persons with disabilities). Skills And
Knowledge: Knowledge of Batho Pele principles, Public Service Regulations,
policies, and procedures. Administration procedures including norms and
standards. Basic numeracy. Organizing and planning. Computer literacy. Basic
interpersonal relations. Problem solving. Maintaining discipline.
DUTIES : Online cataloguing of library materials: Analyse the library material, formulate
the bibliographic data, consult the Dewey Decimal classification schedules
(DDC23) to determine the call number, consult the Resource Description and
Access (RDA) standards to determine the applicable cataloguing rules. Online
classification of library materials on Library Management System (SLIMS):
Check the existence of a library material on the SLIMS database, analyse the
library material, determine the type, audience and language, analyse and
determine the subject content and use Sears List of Subject Headings to
determine the subject headings. Printing catalogue cards using REMORA
system: Scan ISBN or type in the CLOI number of an item to retrieve its
bibliographic record on REMORA, verify information, edit the necessary fields,
i.e. Price, quantity, etc and print the catalogue cards. Search existing library
materials from the SLIMS database: Search the library material by ISBN,
author and title, check the existence of a record on the database, catalogue if
unavailable, print catalogue cards if already catalogues and confirm
information on the cards. Confirm the information on the cards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/477 : SPORT SCIENTIST REF NO: DSAC 2026/29
(for a period of one (1) year contract)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), plus 37% of lieu benefit
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
301
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 certificate or from a recognized institution of Basic
Education. Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Sport Science or
equivalent qualification related to the field as recognised by SAQA. 0A
minimum of 2 years’ experience of experience in Sport Environment. A valid
driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities). Knowledge And Skills:
Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer Focus;
Communication Time Management. Must have Facilitation and presentation
skills, Excellent verbal communication, reading and writing skills; Project
planning and report writing. Problem solving skills, Good interpersonal
relationships and Ability to work under pressure, Computer skills: PowerPoint,
Excel, Microsoft Word.
DUTIES : Coordinate programmes of sport science in academics and athlete’s support:
Nutrition and recovery, fitness and health assessment, team preparation,
performance enhancement and injury prevention and data analysis. Liaise with
medical practitioners for testing of athletes, medical screening, sport specific
testing and medical interventions: Providing medical care during events and
training, performance optimization, injury diagnosis and treatment and injury
prevention. Support athletes from districts through the academy system: Talent
identification, provide expect coaching and training to develop athletes’ skills,
athlete’s pathway to profession sport, offering top-notch facilities and
resources. Liaise with federations and other critical clients in areas of scientific
support in sport: Arranging and attending meetings, report on athletes’
progress support identified athletes in a high-performance area and maintain
athlete support database.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/478 : SCHOOL SPORT COORDINATORS (X8 POSTS)
(for a period of one (1) year contract)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum (Level 06), plus 37% of lieu benefit
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District Ref No: DSAC 2026/30 (X2 Posts)
Waterberg District Ref No: DSAC 2026/31 (X1 Post)
Mopani District Ref No: DSAC 2026/32 (X1 Post)
Capricorn District Ref No: DSAC 2026/33 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe District Ref No: DSAC 2026/34 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 certificate or from a recognized institution of Basic
Education. Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Sport
Management / Administration as recognised by SAQA will be an added
advantage. A valid driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities).
Knowledge And Skills: Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and
Customer Focus; Communication Time Management. Must have Facilitation
and presentation skills, Excellent verbal communication, reading and writing
skills; Project planning and report writing. Problem solving skills, Good
interpersonal relationships and Ability to work under pressure, Computer skills:
PowerPoint, Excel, Microsoft Word.
DUTIES : Implement the departmental policy on sport in schools; facilitate the
coordination of sport on schools programmes and activities; Coordinate school
sport meetings; Facilitate the development of sport in school mass participation
business plan; Coordinate mass participation programme; Facilitate
stakeholder meetings; Ensure equitable participation in sport; Coordinate and
integrate stakeholders activities ;Organise and plan meetings; Review
activities by providing strategic direction; Provide support establishment of
School Sport management committees, Coordinate School Sport Leagues in
School Circuits and Districts, Compilation of reports and data capturing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/479 : HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453. per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane):
Ref No: DSAC 2026/35
Ref No: DSAC 2026/36
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 certificates from a recognized institution of Basic
Education. Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Human Resource
Management / Development / Public Management as recognised by SAQA will
302
be an added advantage. Skills And Knowledge: Understanding of the
legislative framework governing the public service e.g. Public Service of South
Africa Act, computer literacy, planning and organising, problem solving, verbal
and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Management of recruitment and selection: Management of application to
advertised posts, render secretarial services during short listings and
interviews, attend to queries related to recruitment and selection processes,
prepare appointment letters for successful candidates, capture appointments
on PERSAL system and compile memo/submissions for appointment Handling
of transfer: Receive request / application for transfer, compile submission to
obtain approval, issue response / release letter and transfer employees on
PERSAL system. Update Pay points and information PERSAL System and
Upgrading of post: Place personnel to correct Pay points on PERSAL system,
update personnel information on PERSAL system, complete Request form for
creation of post and write a memo for employees who are due for upgrading.
Maintain employee data: Update register for newly appointed employees,
inform employees about termination of contract. Management of advert: Draft
DPSA and internal advert for posts according to the approved organisational
structure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/480 : CLUB COORDINATOR REF NO: DSAC 2026/37
(for a period of one (1) year contract)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), plus 37% of lieu benefit
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 certificate or from a recognized institution of Basic
Education. Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree NQF level 06 / 07 in Sport
Management / Administration/ Science as recognised by SAQA will be an
added advantage. A valid driver’s license (except for persons with disabilities).
Skills And Knowledge: Public Service Acts, Regulations, policies, and other
legislative frameworks. Knowledge of Sport Administration Planning and
organising, Computer literacy, Project planning, Problem solving
Communication, Report writing.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to local federations and confederations: Provide
support services to federations, clubs and schools, render support to Provincial
Sport academy and satellite, implement programmes to increase and improve
relation between sport and recreation stakeholders and establish good
governance structures of sport and recreation as dictated by relevant
legislation. Coordinate and integrate stakeholder activities in communities:
Collect, analyse, compile and update data in all sport and recreational
activities, provide administrative support regarding sports and recreation
facilities and infrastructure, administer the system for storage, maintenance,
issues and return of sport and physical recreation equipment. Facilitate
capacity building development plans: Facilitate capacity building activities,
administer coach training in terms of different sporting codes, provide support
for education and training events, promote sports and skills management,
coordinate club development leagues, perform events management /
coordination activities, liaise with hubs, sport federations, sport councils and
academy to increase the number of participants in sports and recreation
activities and implement programmes to increase and improve relations
between sports and recreation stakeholders. Administer league related to
sports programmes: Provide health and fitness activities in communities,
provide support to local and district clubs, encourage all levels of communities
to participate in different codes of sport and recreation activities, collate club
needs, collect club profiles and coordinate club affiliation and promotion
programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/481 : LIBRARY ASSISTANT (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Thulamela Library Ref No: DSAC 2026/38
Mahlabathini Library Ref No: DSAC 2026/39
Mookgopong Town Library Ref No: DSAC 2026/40
303
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4/ Grade 12 Certificate from a recognized institution of Basic
Education or equivalent qualification from a recognized institution of Basic
Education. A three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6) or bachelor’s degree
in library and information studies / library and information science or equivalent
qualification related to the field as recognised by SAQA will be an added
advantage. Skills And Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of
administration procedures relating to library environment including norms and
standards. Must be computer and internet literate. Planning and organising
skills, Basic interpersonal relationship and problem-solving skills. Ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provision of clerical support services within the library. Provide support
services for library administration. Computerisation of library material. Provide
support services for awareness and collection development. Assist with
processing of library materials to be shelve ready. Assist the librarian in day-to-
day management and operation of the library. Sorting, shelving and shelve
reading of library materials according to their categorisation. Assist with
executing library assets for asset management purposes. Assist library users
when looking for reading, research materials and computer related purposes.
Assist library users when looking for reding, research materials and computer
related information. Assist with counter, phone and email enquiries from library
users. Checking books in and out at the from desk. Register new customers
and maintaining and updating customer profiles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/482 : CLEANERS REF NO: DSAC 2026/41 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Head Office (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 (Grade 9) (AET/ABET level 4 certificate) from a recognized
institution of basic Education. Certificates of training services in cleaning will
be an added advantage. Knowledge And Skills: Work procedures such as
Cleaning, Operating equipment and Health and safety. Interpersonal
relationship, communication skills and Organising skills.
DUTIES : Cleaning of offices corridors, elevators and Boardrooms. Clean general
kitchens. Cleaning of restrooms. Safe keep and maintain cleaning materials
and equipment. Report broken cleaning machines and equipment’s. Request
cleaning materials. Cleaning walls, windows and doors. Emptying and cleaning
of dustbin. Replace toilet papers, hand towels and refreshers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015)284 4143/
4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/483 : GENERAL WORKER REF NO: DSAC 2026/42
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Waterberg District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 (Grade 9) (AET/ABET level 4 certificate) from a recognized
institution of Basic Education. Knowledge And Skills: Ability to operate
equipments, basic literacy and good communication skills. Knowledge of
repetitive work procedures such as cleaning\ equipments /gardening and
Health and Safety measures.
DUTIES : Perform General Duties: Load and off-load furniture, equipment, archivalia and
any other goods to the relevant destination, safe keeping of records and
archivalia. Cleaning inside and outside of the building: clean relevant
workstations and maintenance of the external areas of the archive building:
Distribute and collect documents, ensure proper movements of documents:
Ensure proper movements of documents and record in the register. Operate
elementary machines: Vacuums and photocopier
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015)284 4143/
4109/4186 / 4314.
POST 25/484 : GENERAL WORKER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Muti Wa Va Tsonga (Mopani District) Ref No: DSAC 2026/43
Schoemansdal (Vhembe District) Ref No: DSAC 2026/44
304
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 1 (Grade 9) (AET/ABET level 4 certificate) from a recognized
institution of Basic Education. Knowledge And Skills: Ability to operate
equipments, basic literacy and good communication skills. Knowledge of
repetitive work procedures such as cleaning\ equipments /gardening and
Health and Safety measures.
DUTIES : Perform General Duties: Load and off-load furniture, equipment, archivalia and
any other goods to the relevant destination, safe keeping of records and
archivalia. Cleaning inside and outside of the building: clean relevant
workstations and maintenance of the external areas of the archive building:
Distribute and collect documents, ensure proper movements of documents:
Ensure proper movements of documents and record in the register. Operate
elementary machines: Vacuums and photocopier.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Musia N, Ms Langa LZ, Mr Mnisi NF and HRM Intern Tel No: (015) 284
4143/ 4109/4186 / 4314.
305
ANNEXURE X
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the correct references when
applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za only online applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. please note The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the posts were posted in the Public Service
Vacancy Circular 17 dated 22 May 2026, the posts of Clinical Nurse Practitioner
(Warburton CHC and Emthonjeni Clinic, Gert Sibande District) with Ref No:
MPDoH/May/26/766, Chief Personnel Officer (Amajuba Memorial Hospital (X2
Posts), Gert Sibande District) with Ref No: MPDoH/Mar/26/775, and its closing
date of 29 May 2026, the posts were posted in the Public Service Vacancy
Circular 19 dated 05 June 2026, the posts of Medical Physicist Grade 1:
Oncology (Rob Ferreira Hospital, Ehlanzeni District) with Ref No:
MPDoH/Jun/26/933, Dental Laboratory Technician Grade 1: Dentistry (6 Posts)
(Witbank Hospital, Nkangala District) with Ref No: MPDoH/Jun/26/949 and
Dental Laboratory Technician Assistant Grade 1: Dentistry (X2 Posts) (Witbank
Hospital, Nkangala District) with Ref No: MPDoH/Jun/26/979 and its closing
date of 23 June 2026, the posts has been withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/485 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: (DCST)
ANAESTHESIOLOGY REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R2 168 145 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District
306
Gert Sibande District
Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology
(2026). A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Anaesthesiology. Valid driver’s licence. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of
current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge.
Competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work
independently and under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work
with diverse team. Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and
engage when necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation,
programs and priorities within the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff
within the department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within
a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : General: Represent own specialist discipline as a member of District Clinical
Specialist Team responsible for the delivery of quality health care for mothers,
new-borns, and children at all levels within the health district. Supervising the
management of and managing Anaesthesiology and coordinate services. To
execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/486 : HEAD: CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: (DCST) OBSTETRICS &
GYNAECOLOGY REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1027
SALARY : R2 168 145 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and
Gynaecology (2026). A minimum of five (5) years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Valid driver’s licence. Be a South African citizen
or a permanent residence of South Africa. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge
of Public Service legislation, policies and procedures. Medical management,
written and verbal communication skills and report writing skills. Ensure
effective delivery of Obstetrics and Gynaecology services according to current
guidelines. Lead clinical governance activities, including audits, M&M reviews
and quality improvement initiatives.
DUTIES : General: Represent own specialist discipline as a member of District Clinical
Specialist Team responsible for the delivery of quality health care for mothers,
new-borns, and children at all levels within the health district. Manage patient
flow and optimize theatre, ward, and outpatient services for safe, efficient care.
Oversee clinical outcomes and ensure safe, evidence-based care. Strengthen
medico-legal risk reduction, patient-safety measures and National Core
Standards compliance within Obstetrics and Gynaecology Department.
Manage patients in both inpatient and outpatient settings. Represent province
at provincial/ national meetings/ forums. Ensure active CPD program is run in
the Department. Supervise junior medical officers, registrars and interns in
training. Ensure optimal training of registrars as per HPCSA guidelines. Provide
clinical supervision and mentorship to registrars. Coordinate and deliver formal
teaching activities, skills training and assessment preparation. Participate in
307
assessments, monitor registrar progress, and contribute to curriculum
development in collaboration with the academic division. Advice and guide
students, teach under-and post graduate students. Maintain open
communication channels with student. Check/moderate test and exam papers.
Assist in updating curricula, courses and programs. Provide advice to other
healthcare professionals and run Skills Development Programmes to share
expertise. Participate in after-hours consultant call roster to ensure continuous
availability of expert Obstetrics and Gynaecology support. Provide direct
clinical care, supervision and management of high-risk cases. Ensure
appropriate documentation, handover processes and continuity of care for
weekend and after-hours services. Support budget planning and ensure
efficient resource use. Maintain discipline and promote a professional work
culture. Conduct performance appraisals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/487 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1: FORENSIC PATHOLOGY SERVICES
REF. NO.: MPDOH/JULY/26/1028
SALARY : R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Forensic Pathology
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Forensic Pathology) for foreign qualified employees.
Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of
medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency
and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and
under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Forensic Pathology and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/488 : PRINCIPAL CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1: MENTAL HEALTH &
SUSTANCE ABUSE REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1029
SALARY : R1 295 388 – R1 436 913 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Master’s Degree in Clinical Psychology.
Current registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa
308
(HCPSA) as a Clinical Psychologist (2026). A minimum of three (03) years’
appropriate experience as Psychologist after registration with the Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HCPSA) as a Clinical Psychologist.
DUTIES : General Management of the clinical psychology department. Support mental
health department. Provide professional and management support for the
provision of quality patient care. Ensure psychological services are provided
according to professional standards and ethical principles. Develop client
systems and programs that guarantee prompt service to patients according to
the delivery objectives laid down by the National department of health. Provide
guidance and leadership towards the realization of the strategic plans and
operational plans of mental health services. Promote and support forensic
psychological services. Manage and utilize resources in accordance with
relevant directives and legislation and complying with all legal prescripts Acts,
Legislatives, Policies, Circulars, Procedures and guidelines. To organize,
establish and implement the internship programme for Clinical Psychologists
in Mpumalanga province.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/489 : MANAGER NURSING (PN-A9): CHILD HEALTH REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1030
SALARY : R1 201 302 – R1 373 562 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with SANC in
terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional
Nurse (2026). A tertiary qualification in Health Sciences, preferably in Public
Health. A minimum of ten (10) years of appropriate / recognizable experience
in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate / recognizable experience in
management level of Child Health Care. Post basic qualifications in Child
health, Diploma/Degree in Nursing Education and Administration will be an
advantage. Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to enhance
service delivery. Ability to plan and organise own work. Be able to work under
pressure. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate Child Health programme in the province and liaise with National
Sub-Directorate, Districts and other sectors on issues related to Child Health.
Develop strategic plans, policies and protocols on implementation of Child
Health programme. Support districts with the implementation of national and
provincial policies. Render technical support, advice, and capacity building of
personnel. Manage the rendering of Adolescent, Youth and Integrated School
Health Programme in the province. Support the implementation of norms and
standard for Child health programme. Manage the programme’s finances and
budget, Conduct research on Child Health related issues. Monitor and evaluate
the impact of the programme.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/490 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING (PN-A8): MENTAL HEALTH & SUBSTANCE
ABUSE REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1032 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 069 215 – R1 219 323 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus (NQF Level 7) in Health Sciences that allows
registration with health regulatory body of South Africa. A minimum of nine (09)
years appropriate / recognisable experience as health professionals. At least
four (4) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate /
recognisable experience at management level in Mental Health Services
Coordination. Core competencies: Knowledge of mental health services,
communication skills, financial management, planning and organisation,
monitoring and evaluation. Project management. Registration with relevant
309
health regulatory body of South Africa. Basic computer literacy. Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate and support the implementation of Mental Health Act 17 of 2002,
National mental health policy framework and strategic plan 2023-2030 and
Health sector drug master plan in the province. Develop a provincial
comprehensive strategy to combat substance abuse, Coordinate and support
the provision of the forensic mental health services, Coordinate the
establishment of the mental health community-based services in the province.
Develop a strategy to manage child and adolescence in the province. Ensure
effective communication and collaboration with all stakeholders to maintain
existing mental health services. Provide technical support to districts on
matters relating to mental health. Monitor program performance using available
tool and innovative method to strengthen the program. Develop monitoring
framework that will provide for participation of all stakeholders. Develop and
implement the strategies in line with provincial policies, guidelines and ensure
integration into primary health care. Assist in the coordination of services
including training and capacity building for health care workers. Support and
facilitate the licensing of NPOs and NGOs involved in the management of
persons with mental illness and/or severe or profound intellectual disability.
Facilitate stakeholder engagement and inter-sectoral collaboration on mental
health and substance abuse management. Compile and submit reports and
progress update.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/491 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1033
SALARY : R1 041 402 - R1 121 241 per annum
CENTRE : Verena CHC (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer
must be able to work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability
to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship. Sound
clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all medical
emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional
development. Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient
standard of patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
310
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/492 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1: MENTAL HEALTH & SUSTANCE
ABUSE REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1036 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R907 617 - R995 592 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Master’s Degree in Clinical Psychology.
Current registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HCPSA) as a Clinical Psychologist (2026). Grade 1: None after registration
with the HPCSA as Clinical Psychologist (Independent Practice). Minimum of
one 1-year relevant experience after registration with a recognized Foreign
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Clinical Psychologist for foreign qualified
employees. Knowledge, Skills And Competencies: Sound clinical knowledge
regarding Clinical Psychology diagnostic assessment and treatment
procedures. Knowledge and the ability to administer and interpret
psychological tests. Ability to function in a multi-disciplinary team. Excellent
Communication and interpersonal relationship skills. Quality Assurance and
Improvement. Problem solving skills. Competency in psychological
assessment and report writing within the context of forensic Mental Health Care
services. Ability to develop and implement psychological rehabilitation
programmes. Teaching and training ability. Administration skills. Knowledge of
all applicable legislation pertaining to Mental Health Care and forensic Mental
Health. Computer Literacy in Microsoft Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, etc.
Valid Driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of Clinical Psychology services within the
district. Provision of effective psycho-diagnostic and psycho-therapeutic
services to both general and forensic mental health services. Perform all the
statutory functions applicable to the relevant function, compile court reports
and attend to court enquiries and the other task emanating from the courts.
Develop and render psychotherapeutic programmes for acute and sub-acute
MHCUs. Attend to relevant administrative matters. Provide teaching and
training to Junior Clinical Psychologists and other clinical staff and participate
in district outreach programmes. Undertake mental health research when
required. Actively involved in the management of state patients that are on LOA
and conditional discharge. Ability to conduct individual, group, family
psychotherapy and forensic observation. Maintain accurate records and
statistics. Offer outreach services to outlying institutions within the district.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/493 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1038 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R882 816 – R936 987 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
Amajuba Memorial Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Pharmacy Degree or equivalent qualification.
Current registration with South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) (2026). Core
competencies recommended. Commitment to quality development of self and
others. Computer literacy, good interpersonal skills. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Strong leadership and managerial skills.
DUTIES : Ensure proper selection and procurement of drugs and surgical items for the
hospital. Ensure rational use of drugs. Develop a hospital medicine formulary.
Monitor expenditure on pharmaceutical and surgical items. Perform stock
control functions. Ensure proper reconciliation of pharmaceutical accounts.
Supervise and train Pharmacy Support Staff, Interns, Community Servers and
Junior Pharmacist.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
311
POST 25/494 : MEDICAL PHYSICIST GRADE 1: RADIATION ONCOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY26/1039
SALARY : R844 128 – R935 049 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Physicist. Current
registration with a Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Physicist 2026). Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Physicist. Inherent requirements of the Job: Willingness
to work after hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Skills pertaining to the
scope of the profession of Medical Physicist. Must be able to work
independently and have the skills to complete projects on time. Good
communication and interpersonal relationship skills.
DUTIES : Provide Medical Physics support to Radiation Oncology Department.
Responsible for radiotherapy quality assurance programmes and radiation
dosimetry. Ensure that equipment is safe, effective and working properly.
Environmental monitoring to determine dose equivalent levels as required.
Give scientific and technical advice about radiation doses, designing treatment
plans and radiation protection. Acquisition of new radiotherapy equipment and
maintenance of equipment. Provide radiation protection services and ensure
regulatory compliance for the institution.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/495 : REGISTERED COUNCILLOR GRADE 1: MENTAL HEALTH & SUBSTANCE
ABUSE REF NO: MPDOH/JULY26/1042 (X3 POSTS)
On Three (3) Year Contract
SALARY : R741 102 – R821 070 per annum
CENTRE : Bushbuckridge Sub-district (X2 Posts) (Ehlanzeni District)
Mkhondo Sub-district (X1 Post) Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allow for the
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Registered Counsellor (2026). Knowledge with development of programmes
and policies, experience with Trauma and Suicide interventions and
experience with Psychometric Assessments will be an advantage. Work within
your professional scope of practice and refer for more specialized mental
health intervention. Good presentation skills and ability to conduct meeting and
training. Willing to travel in the sub-district to consult clients, attend, conduct
meeting and respond to district disasters. Ability to work in a diverse, multi-
cultural and inclusive environment. Computer Literacy in Microsoft Word,
Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, etc. Valid driver’s licence. Willingness to travel.
Willingness to work long hours.
DUTIES : Rendering of psychologically-related interventions: (e.g. Counselling, Crisis
Intervention, Debriefing, Problem Oriented Intervention, Trauma & Suicide).
Ensure the rendering of a professional, integrated service by Employee Health
and Wellness to employees. Improve the mental well-being of members by
providing psychological, emotional, and personal and work- interventions.
Work in a multi-disciplinary Employee Health and Wellness Team, Assist in
Psychometric testing. Assist in conducting Organizational Mental health
screening and team building initiatives. Offer supervisory services to other
psychology professionals. Management of projects and mental health related
initiatives. Psychoeducation and mental health promotion. Assist with the
facilitation of Assessment Centres. Conducting mental health campaigns as
per the departmental calendar. Management of human, physical and financial
resources. Assist in the development of Organizational Norms, Standards and
Procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
312
POST 25/496 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): MATERNIYY REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/26/1043
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 454 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) that allows registration with the 'South African Nursing
Council' (SANC) as a Professional Nurse (2026). A post basic nursing
qualification, with duration of at least one (01) year accredited with the SANC
in Advanced Maternity Nursing Science. Diploma/Degree in nursing
management. Minimum of ten (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience
in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing
Council (SANC) in General Nursing At least six (05) years of period referred to
above must be appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining
the one (01) year post basic qualification in Advanced Maternity Nursing
Science. At least three (03) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience at Management Level Skills: Knowledge
of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant
legal frameworks such as Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act Patient’s Rights Charter, Batho-Pele Principles. Sound knowledge
and skills in implementing disciplinary code and procedure, grievance
procedure Leadership, organizational, decision making and problem-solving
abilities within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy framework
Good interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict
handling and counselling skills. Knowledge of financial and budgetary
prescripts and processes pertaining to the relevant resources under
management Insight into public health sector strategies and priorities including
the nursing strategy, standards procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care, computer skills in basic programs.
DUTIES : Provide effective management and professional leadership in the specialized
units of Maternity. Demonstrate effective communication with patients,
supervisors, other health professional and junior colleagues including more
complex report writing when required Effective management, utilization and
supervision of all resources Display a concern for patients, promoting,
advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care and ensure that the unit
adheres to the principles of Batho Pele Maintain clinical competence by
ensuring that scientific principles of nursing and clinical governance are
implemented. Implement maternal guidelines, demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practice. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and any labour related issues
in terms of laid down procedures. Provide supportive supervision and comply
with PMDS evaluation of staff, formulate training programs and participate in
training and development of staff and nursing students. Monitor implementation
Disaster management, monitor implementation of NCS and Ideal Hospital
Realization Framework and interpret its impact on service delivery thereof. Co-
ordinate and participate in health promotion activities and monitor and
evaluation of data Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to
enhance service delivery. Support Nursing Services Management by working
weekend and night duty when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/497 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SERVICES GRADE 1
(HEALTH CARE RISK WASTE MANAGEMENT) REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1045 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R664 410 – R735 930 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus appropriate qualification in Environmental
Health / Public Health as recognized by SAQA that allows for the required
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Environmental Health Practitioner. A minimum of three (3) years appropriate
experience in the relevant profession after registration with the Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as independent practice (where
applicable) of which five (5) years must be appropriate experience in
313
management. Must have an experience in managing Health Care Risk Waste
in the health facilities and Public Old Age Homes would be an added
advantage. At least 5 years’ experience as an environmental health and
independent practitioner. Extensive knowledge on Health Care Risk Waste
management and other hazardous substance and related activities. Good
leadership qualities, with a clear demonstration of monitoring and evaluation of
the programme. Good leadership qualities, with a clear demonstration of
management abilities. The ability to coordinate multi-disciplinary and sectoral
activities. Good communication skills. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s
license. Must be registered with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as an independent environmental health practitioner. Strategic
capability and leadership. Programme and project management skills. Must
have computer skills (MS Office package and Power Point Presentation)
Financial management skills. Change and knowledge management skills.
Problem-solving and analysis skills. People management and empowerment.
Contract management skills. Able to work independent, under pressure, willing
to work overtime and travel extensively. Understanding legislative frameworks
and related policies in the health public sector and other prescripts.
DUTIES : Develop, implement, monitor and evaluate policy guidelines for management.
Monitor and evaluate Health Care Risk Waste contract management. Develop
turnaround strategy to improve Health Care Risk Waste management in the
province. Develop and revise Health Care Risk Waste and Environmental
Health related policies, legislation, strategies and relevant norms and
standards. Able to manage and provide accurate information to the Supervisor
and other stakeholders for evidence –based decision- making and programme
planning and evaluation. Able to analyse Health Care Risk Waste finance and
data for decision making. Able to manage hazardous substances. Capacity
building of health care workers to manage Health Care Risk Waste in the
facilities. Able to conduct research to inform policies. Provide technical support
to facilities and other stakeholders. Represent the department on Health Care
Risk Waste management forums. Develop strategic and operational plan for
the programme. Develop quality improvement plan. Able to monitor Health
Care Risk Waste management in the facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/498 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME CO-ORDINATOR GRADE 1 (PN-A5): MENTAL
HEALTH & SUBSTANCE ABUSE REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1050 (X5
POSTS)
SALARY : R571 161 - R654 285 per annum
CENTRE : Emalahleni Sub-district (X1 Post), Victor Khanye Sub-district (X1 Post)
(Nkangala District)
Mkhondo Sub-district (X1 Post) and Lekwa Sub-district (X1 Post) (Gert
Sibande District) Nkomazi Sub-district (X1 Post) (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse in Psychiatry. A minimum of seven (7) years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in Mental Health Environment after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2026).
A Diploma / Degree in Nursing Administration and Management will be an
added advantage. Good leadership and coordination qualities. Good
interpersonal communication skills. Good organizing and planning skills.
Report writing skills, ability to work under pressure. Valid driver’s licence and
computer literacy.
DUTIES : Coordinate and manage mental health and substance abuse programme at the
sub-district level. Ensure the implementation of the mental health care act (Act
no 17 2002), national mental health policy framework and strategic plan 2023-
2030 and Health sector drug master plan at the sub-district level. Provide
support visits in health facilities that provides 72-hrs assessment. Assist in the
management of state patients on leaves of absence and conditional discharge
and mental health care users in chronical care facilities. Conduct home visit to
support families and help to prevent relapse and treatment defaults. Facilitates
in the establishment of community based mental health services. Ensure
314
community involvement and participation in forming support group and working
with stakeholders. Advocacy for mental health promotion and prevention of
mental illness and substance abuse: competencies: plan and organise own
work and support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Do awareness
campaign on mental health and substance abuse? Assist in preparation of
strategic plans and operational plans for the programme, liaise with other
department and ability to work with NGOs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/499 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): CHILD HEALTH CARE REF
NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1051
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Critical Care Nursing
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Child Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/500 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PAEDIATRIC REF NO:
MPDOH/JUL/26/1052
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2026). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Paediatric / Child Health Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
315
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Paediatric Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stake holders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize,
coordinate activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/501 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): ADVANCED MIDWIFERY REF
NO: MPDOH/JUL/26/1059
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2026). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Advanced Midwifery Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Advanced Midwifery Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/502 : DENTAL LABORATORY TECHNICIAN GRADE 1: DENTISTRY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1058 (X6 POSTS)
Re-Advertisement
SALARY : R413 121 – R472 359 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
316
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Dental Technician Council (SADTC) as
Dental Technician (2026). Grade 1: SA qualified employees: none experience
after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable)
in respect of employees who performed Community Service as required in SA.
Foreign qualified employees: one (1) year relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of
employees who performed Community Service as required in SA. Experience
in Dental Laboratory Assistant will be an added advantage. Knowledge: All
dental technology disciplines. Oral anatomy and Tooth Morphology. Dental
technology equipment and materials. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine
the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements.
DUTIES : Fabricate clinically acceptable dental prosthesis using appropriate materials
and procedures. Carry out infection control procedures. Supervise a dental
laboratory assistant. Maintain daily production registers and submit monthly
production statistics. Comply with Continuous Professional Development
(CPD) requirements. Comply with Occupational Health and Safety standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/503 : SPEECH THERAPIST & AUDIOLOGIT GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1060
SALARY : R413 121 – R472 359 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
Speech Therapist and Audiology. Current registration with the HPCSA as
Speech Therapist and Audiology. Grade 1 (2026): SA qualified employees:
none experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession
(where applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community Service
as required in SA. Foreign qualified employees: one (1) year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where
applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community Service as
required in SA. Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies Required: Good
verbal and written communication skills. Good interpersonal relations. Problem
solving skills. Knowledge of relevant Health and Safety Act. Ability to perform
basic quality assurance tests. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Render effective patient centered speech therapy and audiology service for in
and out- Patients in adherence to the scope of practice and health protocols.
To with colleagues, relieve as and when the need arises, and to work closely
with the interdisciplinary team members. Carry out delegated duties to
participate in student training, supervision and performance evaluation.
Implement and maintain the quality assurance and National Core standard and
norms at departmental level. Adhere to provincial, hospital and departmental
policies, procedures, guidelines and regulations. Perform record keeping, data
collection, assist with budget control and assets managements. Contribute and
participate in professional development of self-colleagues and members of the
interdisciplinary team members. Participate in research projects of the
department. Participate in quality assurance methods and CPD activities.
Communicate effectively with all stakeholders. Exercise acre with all
consumables and equipment. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/504 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1061
Re-advertisement.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Amajuba Memorial Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
317
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/ Grade 12 plus six (6) years’ relevant experience in Human
Resource Management or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management, Public Administration / Public Management as
recognized by SAQA plus three (3) years’ relevant experience in Human
Resource Development. At least three (3) years’ experience in the post of
Personnel Practitioner / Principal Personnel Officer / Administrative Officer
(Level 7). A least a minimum of three (3) PERSAL courses is inherent
requirement. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL including interpreting PERSAL
reports. Skills and competencies: In-depth knowledge of policies, systems,
processes, procedures and best practices pertaining to Recruitment and
Selection, Condition of Services, Employees Benefits, Administration,
Performance Management, Human Resource Development and Skills
development. A good understanding and knowledge of the PFMA, Public
Service Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment and Employment Equity
Act. Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA), Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations and 245 Treasury Regulations. Computer literacy
particularly MS, Excel, Outlook & Word. Good interpersonal relationship,
networking, written and verbal communication skills at levels. Logical and
innovative thinking abilities and leadership skills. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Co-ordination and compilation of reports regarding the filing of posts. Monitor
the development and review of the system of administering processes in the
area of HR strategy and the management of demand and supply of human
resources. Monitor and advise the process of recruitment and selection within
the Department. Development of service in the standards in the area of
responsibility. Monitor the implementation of Operational Plan of the unit.
Manage staff in terms of the approved Performance Management and
Development system: Conduct performance midterm reviews and annual
performance assessment of staff. Ensure compliance and effective
implementation of employment equity and skill development. Facilitate
processing of pension benefits and leave payouts. Create and maintain the
complete and accurate Human Resource records. Approve PERSAL
Transactions captured. Utilize resources effectively, adhere to Batho Pele
Principle and service standard.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/505 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SALARY ADMINISTRATION REF
NO: MPDOH/JUL/26/1062
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Matikwana Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus six (6) years relevant experience in Humana
Resource Management / Salary Administration or Diploma / Degree (NQF
Level 6/7) in Finance / Public Administration / Public Management as
recognized by SAQA plus three (3) years relevant experience in Human
Resource Management / Salary Administration. At least three (3) years’
experience in the post of Chief Administration Clerk / Administrative Officer /
Personnel Practitioner / Principal Personnel Officer (Level 7). Extensive
knowledge of PERSAL System. At least three (3) PERSAL courses as
minimum requirement. Knowledge and understanding of the PFMA and
Treasury Regulations; knowledge and understanding of the Basic Accounting
System (BAS); good communication (verbal and written) skills; computer
literacy; problem-solving skills; planning and organizing skills; analytical skills;
liaison skills; client orientation skills; financial management skills; presentation
skills; customer care skills. Ability to work in a team and independently.
Assertiveness; and self-starter. Ability to work under pressure and good
computer literacy skills (MS Excel and MS Word). Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to handle documents and
information With strict confidentiality. Duties include: Check and authorize
salary related transactions claims such as overtime, sessional allowances and
advances, control the instating of garnishee orders, Control the cancellation of
deductions such as insurance policies, check and authorize Local and Foreign
travel and subsistence claims, Control payments of salary claims, Control the
correctness of the distribution of PERSAL Item Analysis reports to Financial
Institutions and the filing of these reports on a monthly basis, Control the
318
clearing, reconciling and reporting on the state of salary related ledger
accounts, control leave and lump sum payments, Control the compilation of the
Monthly BAS / PERSAL interface reconciliations, Follow up and resubmit
PERSAL exceptions on BAS, Debtor control: Check and approve salary related
debt calculations and transactions to be effected on the BAS and control debt
documentation, Control the PAYE for the Department, recalculation of Income
Tax, monthly income tax reconciliation EMP201 to be submitted via SARS
eFiling and the annual tax reconciliation EMP501 to SARS to be submitted via
SARS e@syFile, Control SARS tax directives for assessment, Check issue /
reissue of IRP5 Certificates, Manage and respond to enquiries related to this
function, Supervise the work performance of subordinates by inter alia,
allocating and controlling work and maintaining office discipline. Requesting of
BAS reports when required and Filing of claim related documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/506 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HRD REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1063
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus six (6) years relevant experience in Human
Resource Development or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Development / Human Resource Management / Public
Administration / Public Management as recognized by SAQA plus three (3)
relevant experience Human Resource Development. At least three (3) years’
experience in the post of Chief Administration Clerk / Administrative Officer /
Personnel Practitioner / Principal Personnel Officer (Level 7). Knowledge of
Government policies and all skills development related legislation.
Employment Equity Act, SAQA, SETA, understanding of the National Skills
Development Act and understanding of Learnership. Computer literacy, MS
Excel, MS Project and Power Point. Skills: Presentation and report writing,
Organizational and Administration, Numeracy, interpersonal and
communication, Communication: verbal and written, creativity and innovative.
Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Presentation of the orientation and induction program. Compile of relevant
documentation pertaining to learnership program, Update learner database.
Learnership Administration. Monitoring and evaluation of programmes, attend
to all HRD administrative duties. Monitoring ABET Programme. Administer part
time and full time bursary programmes. Manage and monitor the
implementation of EPMDS for all in the hospital, clinics and proper
maintenance of EPMDS records. Coordinate and monitor the implementation
of human resource strategies and projects in the hospital internship, bursaries,
and workplace integrated learning, learnership. Develop and maintain
database for grade progression. Develop and maintain database for HRD
training program. Compile in-service training plan for the entire hospital, clinics
and monitor the implementation. Coordinate and facilitate training e.g.
induction and training, and update records for all training. Compiling of monthly,
quarterly and annually reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/507 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1: MENTAL HEALTH & SUBSTANCE ABUSE
REF NO: MPDOH/JULY26/1066 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 208 – R397 668 per annum
CENTRE : Themba Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Degree in Social Work / Social Science.
Current registration with the South Africa Council for Social Service
Professions as Social Worker (SACSSP) (2026). Knowledge, Skills, Training
And Competencies Required: Sound knowledge and understanding of mental
319
health care act 17 of 2002. Time management policy development, counselling,
Tact and Diplomacy, Planning and Organizing Skills. Good interpersonal
relations, communication, facilitation presentation and report writing,
innovation skills. Sound professional and ethical behaviour including
professionalism, team orientation, reliability, integrity, confidentiality, etc. Ability
to work under pressure with good tact and diplomacy. Advisory, monitoring and
evaluation interpretation, policy analysis and research.
DUTIES : Assist in the implementation of the mental health care act 17 2002, National
Health Policy Framework and Strategic Plan 2023-2030 and Health sector drug
master plan. Act as case manager for state patients on leave of absence,
conditional discharge and participate in the multi-disciplinary team meeting.
Evaluate information and compile forensic court report and make
recommendation in the best interest of the mental health care user. Travel to
conduct inquiry and interview parties, Case management of matters allocated
and achieve target set. Counselling of the mental health care users. Perform
all the statutory functions applicable to the relevant function, compile court
reports and attend to court enquiries and the other task emanating from the
courts. Produce and maintain records of social work interventions and process
and outcomes. Liaise or attend meetings with other departments and non-
governmental institutions to take cognizance of the latest developments in the
relevant fields.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/508 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: PMDS REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1067
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus three (3) years’ experience in
Performance Management and Development System or Diploma / Degree
(NQF Level 6/7) in Human Resource Management, Public Administration /
Public Management as recognized by SAQA. Good understanding and
Functional knowledge of the Public Service Act, Public Service regulations,
Basic condition of employment Act, Employment Equity Act, Computer literacy,
Good interpersonal skills, Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability
to work under pressure. Sound communication and interpersonal skills.
Analytical skills on problem solving, decision making and organizational skills.
Computer literacy particularly MS, Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s
licence will serve as an added advantage.
DUTIES : To render Performance Management and Development Services. The
administration of performance rewards and expenditure. The coordination of
probationary records. The maintenance of a performance management
database. The provision of technical advice and management issues. Render
the implementation of Performance Management and Development Services.
Assist with the facilitation of Performance Management and Development
Services. Render the implementation of performance rewards on PERSAL
System. Render administrative support services for the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/509 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: MOVABLE AND IMMOVABLE ASSETS REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1068
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years relevant experience in Assets
Management, Supply Chain Management / Risk Management or Diploma /
Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration Public Management / Finance
as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA); Knowledge of Financial Management (Vote and Trust); Knowledge of
BAS, LOGIS Pages. Skills and Competencies: People management;
Computer literacy (Microsoft Packages); Good communication Skills (written
320
and verbal); Organising and Problem-solving skills; Sound leadership and
management skills; Good interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Compile, update, and maintain the moveable asset register in line with National
Treasury guidelines. Perform routine physical asset verifications across
departments to ensure assets are accounted for and match the asset register.
Monitor the asset disposal process, including write-offs, transfers, and
donations of redundant or obsolete assets. Monitor asset movements and
ensure proper safeguarding to prevent loss, theft, or wasteful expenditure.
Prepare detailed asset schedules and reports for inclusion in the Annual
Financial Statements (AFS) Process capital additions, reconcile asset
accounts, and clear suspense accounts before month-end and year-end
closures. Ensure internal controls are in place and respond to internal and
external audit queries regarding government property.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/510 : FOOD SERVICE MANAGER REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1069
SALARY R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE Bongani TB Specialized Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Grade 12 plus six (6) years in food services experience with
a minimum of three (3) years as a supervisor or Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level
6/7) in Food & Beverage Management / Food Technology / Hospitality
Management / Food Science. Food services experience in hospital
environment will be an added advantage Knowledge of food service
management. Excellent communication (written and verbal) skills. Prior
knowledge of stock and key control is required. Strong interpersonal, analytical,
and problem-solving skills. Ability to work as a team member and
independently under pressure. Should have effective leadership skills and
computer literacy. A driver’s license will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Manage material resources, stock, equipment, and the preparation and serving
of food and refreshment. Conduct stock taking. Ensuring cleanliness in the unit.
Compile performance packs as well as performance reviews of staff. Ensure
compliancy to occupational health and safety. Exercise over control in the
section. Apply hygiene in all service units. Planning and coordinating venues,
meetings, schedules, and services. Developing and implementing policies in
the section, compiling reports and submit on monthly basis. Supervision in the
section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/511 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: MENTAL HEALTH & SUBSTANCE ABUSE
REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1070
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Grade 12 plus three (3) years relevant experience or
Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration / Public
Management as recognized by SAQA. Computer literacy skills in excel, word
and power point and data capturing skills. Good communication skill and ability
to function independent. Strong administrative skill, innovative thinking, sound
interpersonal relationship. A pleasant telephone personality, good planning,
decision making, problem solving, planning and organizational skills. Writing
and issuing of notices and commitment to meeting deadlines. Distributes
documents to various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing register of the unit. Ability to work in a multidisciplinary
team (MDT). Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Render administrative and logistic support services for Mental Health and
substance abuse program. Ensure acquisition of goods and services as per
operational plan. Receive and prepare invoices for payment. Assist with the
management of invoices for all service providers. Receive handle and process
all documents from mental health review board (MHRB). Request bas report.
Monitor expenditure and consolidate report. Assist the program in preparing
321
and costing of operation plans, budget projections, budget adjustment and
budget pressure. Enter information in a record system and produce report as
required. Be responsible and assist in the management of all allocated
resources. Supervise subordinates and learners allocated in the program.
Effective report writing, record keeping and data collection skill is needed.
Working well within the MDT set up.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/512 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FORENSIC PATHOLOGY SERVICES REF
NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1071
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : KwaMhlanga Mortuary (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Grade 12 plus three (3) years relevant experience or
Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration / Public
Management as recognized by SAQA. Computer literacy skills in excel, word
and power point and data capturing skills. Good communication skill and ability
to function independent. Strong administrative skill, innovative thinking, sound
interpersonal relationship. A pleasant telephone personality, good planning,
decision making, problem solving, planning and organizational skills. Writing
and issuing of notices and commitment to meeting deadlines. Distributes
documents to various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing register of the unit. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Render administrative and logistic support services for Forensic Pathology
Services. Management of case records and documentation. Coordination of
mortuary administration processes. Support to Forensic Pathology Services
Officers. Liaison with stakeholders, including South African Police Services
(SAPS) and bereaved families. Compliance with reporting and regulatory
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/513 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1072
SALARY : R338 106 per annum. (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus three (3) years’ experience in
Human Resource unit or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management, Public Administration / Public Management as
recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) PERSAL courses is an
inherent requirement. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL includes interpreting
PERSAL reports. A Good understanding and Functional knowledge of the
Public Service Act, Public Service regulations, Basic condition of employment
Act, Employment Equity Act, Computer literacy, Good interpersonal skills,
Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work under pressure.
Sound communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical skills on problem
solving, decision making and organizational skills. Computer literacy
particularly MS, Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s licence will serve as an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices. Render
administrative functions including the following: recruitment and selection of
staff. HR provisioning (recruitment and selection, appointments, transfers,
verification of qualifications, vetting of candidates, secretarial functions for
interviews, absorptions of staff, probationary periods, etc. and also responsible
for conditions of service and benefits: leave salaries, leave graduates,
pensions, termination of services, procedure on Incapacity leave and ill-health,
housing allowance, overtime, translations and writing reports etc.). Coordinate
the Performance management system, address human resource
administration enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human
resource management practices, inform, guide and advise the staff on human
resource administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of
human resource administration practices/policies. Assist with preparation of
322
reports on human resource administration issues and statistics. Coordinate the
implementation of recruitment and selection process. Provide support to Sub-
district Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/514 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: LOGISTICS REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/ 1073
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus three (3) years
relevant experience in Supply Chain Management or Diploma / Degree (NQF
Level 6/7) in Finance / Logistics / Procurement / Supply Chain Management /
Financial / Accounting Management as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge and
experience of provisioning administration, main focus in the following areas:
LOGIS, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework (PPPFA), Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations and general knowledge of
Basic accounting system (BAS). Computer literacy. Sound interpersonal and
communication skills (written and verbal). Good management and supervisory
skills. Ability to work independently and tight deadlines. Valid driver’s licence
will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Supervise and render demand and acquisition services. Supervise and
undertake logistical services. Supervise and control the work of sub-ordinate
(including training) in the supply chain management unit. Deal with more
advanced and complicated matters pertaining to provisioning administration.
Manage all aspects of orders such as quotations, purchase and processing of
requisitions, authorization of procurement advice and guidance to all clients,
chief user clerks and responsibility managers. Ensure compliance with
departmental and Treasury Regulations. Evaluate and test compliance of all
purchasing transactions. Manage all open orders. Deal with Human resources
matters such as leave and perform development system of quarterly evaluation
reports. Adhere to regulations and legislation pertaining supply chain
management unit. Facilitate and administer requisitions for good and services.
Implement internal procurement policies, regulations systems and procedures.
Maintain procurement and provisioning systems and processes. Administer
payment processes. Knowledge of BAS and LOGIS financial systems. Ability
to work under pressure. Supervision of the subordinates. Attend and respond
to audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/515 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): WITH MIDWIFERY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1080 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R337 359 – R397 392 per annum
CENTRE : Matibidi Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
Amajuba Memorial Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) (i.e. Diploma / Degree in General Nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse (2026). Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
323
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/516 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): SCHOOL HEALTH SERVICES
REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1105 (X25 POSTS)
SALARY : R337 359 – R397 392 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District (X9 Posts)
Nkangala District (X8 Posts)
(Gert Sibande District (X8 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) (i.e. Diploma / Degree in General Nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse (2026). At least two (2) years post-Community Service experience. A
valid driver’s licence. Extensive knowledge of prevention and promotion of
health care services, Community based Health Care services and Primary
Health Care. Good knowledge of policies on the provision of School Health
Services. Proven experience in the provision and health care services
especially at Primary Health Care setting. Knowledge and understanding of the
Department of Health Mpumalanga Comprehensive service Plan.
DUTIES : Visiting of all schools in the area of jurisdiction. Learner assessment, screening
and health education for the Foundation and Senior phases according to
School Health Policy. Provision of on-site services according to the policy.
Referral of learners with challenges for further management and intervention.
Follow up of referred learners. Conduct home visits where there is a need for
intervention. Work in partnership with schools and social workers for the
benefits of the learners. Attend parent’s meetings to raise awareness about
Health Promotion in Schools.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/517 : DENTAL LABORATORY ASSISTANT GRADE 1: DENTISTRY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1107 (X2 POSTS)
(Re-advertisement)
SALARY : R225 777 – R258 156 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Experience in Dental Laboratory Assistant will be
an added advantage. Good organizational skill and ability to function under
pressure. Must be prepared to work shifts, weekends and public holidays.
DUTIES : All plaster work in connection with dental prosthesis. Flasking and de-flasking
of a dental prosthesis. Manufacturing of record blocks and special impression
trays. Carry out infection control procedures with dental impressions and the
dental laboratory. Accurately record production outputs and submit monthly
statistics. Comply with departmental policies, procedures, and statutory
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 25/518 : DENTAL CHAIR ASSISTANT GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1108
SALARY : R225 777 - R258 156 per annum
CENTRE : Amajuba Memorial Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
324
Dental Assistant (2025). Ability to work under pressure, organizational skills,
good communication skills, self-motivated and goal orientated.
DUTIES : The incumbent should have knowledge of dental assisting including infection
prevention and control, chair side assisting, maintaining of equipment, stock
control, knowledge of dental materials and instruments and conducting
inventory. The person will work in the dental surgery in the hospital and perform
administrative duties including compiling statistics, registering patients,
answering of the telephone, filing of patient cards, ordering of materials, giving
appointments to patients. Assist Clinicians with the oral health procedures.
Preparation of instruments and dental material for the dental procedures.
Cleaning and sterilization of instruments. Ordering of consumables as needed.
Do inventory of dental instruments. Perform administrative duties. Adhere to
the Health Care Waste Management Legislation and principle. The person
should have good communication skills and good interpersonal relations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
The Mpumalanga Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action Employer. The Provincial
Treasury intends to promote representation in terms of (race, gender, and disability) through the filling of
these posts. All appointments will be made in accordance with the Employment Equity targets of the
Provincial Treasury. Suitably qualified women and persons with disabilities remain the targeted group
and are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Directions for Applications: All applications must be submitted through the
provincial e-recruitment portal at https://erecruitment.mpg.gov.za Applicants
are required to register/create a profile and upload all mandatory documents
on the portal to apply for these opportunities.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026
NOTE : Please note the following: Only shortlisted candidates will be requested to
submit certified copies of qualifications, a valid driver's licence, and ID on the
day of the interview. Communication regarding requirements for certified
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates. All appointments will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check process, not limited to the following:
(criminal record, credit record, qualification verification, citizenship,
employment reference, and social media). It is the applicant's responsibility to
have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
All Middle Management Services (MMS) and SMS positions will be subjected
to a compulsory competency-based assessment. Successful candidates will
be required to enter into a performance contract within three (03) months of
employment. Applications received after the closing date or those that do not
comply with the requirements indicated above will not be considered. No
facsimile, post, or hand-delivered applications will be accepted. Only
applications submitted via the e-recruitment system will be accepted. The
Provincial Treasury reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised posts. If you have not been contacted within three (03) months of
the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. However, should there be any dissatisfaction, applicants are
hereby advised to, within 90 days, seek reasons for the above administrative
action in terms of section 5 of the Promotion of Administrative Justice, 2000
(Act No. 3 of 2000).
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/519 : CHIEF ENGINEER: INFRASTRUCTURE COORDINATION REF NO:
MPT/IC/01/2026
Directorate: Infrastructure Coordination
SALARY : Grade A: R1 317 108 - R1 504 797 per annum (all-inclusive remuneration
package), OSD
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
325
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (03) years of Bachelor's Degree / BTech / B. Eng/BSc
Engineering in Civil Engineering NQF Level 07. Compulsory registration with
the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer /
Technologist. Proven minimum six (06) years of Civil Engineering experience
in Roads, Building Construction, Supervision, and Maintenance. A valid driver's
license. Skills and Competencies: Excellent technical, report writing, and
presentation skills. Innovative problem-solving ability. The ability to work
independently at strategic, production, and execution levels. Applied
knowledge of all relevant built environment legislative/regulatory requirements
of national and international standards (CIDB/ISO/SANS). Ability and
willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Support and monitor the province’s infrastructure Departments and
Municipalities. Review, evaluate, and analyze infrastructure reports and details
against industry best-practice norms as applicable to strategic infrastructure
planning, new, upgrading, and maintenance contracts. Provide technical,
hands-on, specialized support and technical reports in the evaluation of the
effectiveness and efficiency of proposed infrastructure projects. Undertake
regular inspections and evaluation of infrastructure Projects within the
Province. Undertake ad hoc auditing of Civil Engineering professional
account/s and Civil Engineering contract final accounts. Provide mentorship to
candidate engineers and technicians, and other employees within the
infrastructure value chain. Manage human and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/520 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF
NO: MPT/PSCM/02/2026
Directorate: Provincial Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (03) years' Bachelor's Degree / Advanced Diploma / BTech in
Financial Management / BCom Accounting / Supply Chain Management /
Logistics Management / Business Administration / Public Administration /
Public Affairs / Public Management NQF Level 07. A Minimum of three (3)
years’ work experience in Supply Chain Management environment at a junior
management level. A valid driver's license. Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Management,
Regulatory Frameworks, and relevant prescripts governing procurement in
public service. Competency in Microsoft Office Suite (Excel, Word, and
PowerPoint). Must have good communication (verbal and written),
interpersonal, project management, report writing, innovative thinking,
analytical, planning, and coordination skills.
DUTIES : Oversee the implementation of tender administration processes. Monitor
compliance with bid administration processes in accordance with supply chain
management guidelines and prescripts. Monitor advisory services on public
procurement and support provided on Central Suppliers Database (CSD)
registration. Manage and coordinate departmental programmes, plans, and
activities in the region. Management of human and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/521 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: NORMS AND STANDARDS REF NO:
MPT/NS/03/2026
Directorate: Norms and Standards
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Mbombela Square
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (03) years' Bachelor of Commerce degree/Advanced
Diploma/BTech in Accounting/Internal Auditing/Financial Management/Public
Finance Management /Public Administration/Corporate Governance NQF
Level 7. A minimum of three (3) years' work experience in an internal
control/auditing or compliance environment at a junior management level. A
valid driver's license. Skills and Competencies: Good Communication skills
(verbal and written), conflict management, project management, leadership,
coordinating, risk assessment, negotiation skills, presentation skills, problem-
326
solving, planning and organizing, competency in Microsoft Office Suite (Excel,
Word, and PowerPoint), Report writing, and Analytical skills. Good
management and supervisory skills. Sound knowledge of internal controls.
DUTIES : Assess and monitor compliance with financial management prescripts. Assess
and monitor compliance with financial delegations’ prescripts. Analyse, review,
and issue analysis reports on the content and completeness of audit action
plans for Departments and Public Entities. Review completed FMCMM
modules for Municipalities. Review feedback reports on compliance with
information management prescripts. Review feedback reports on compliance
with reporting requirements for Public Entities. Manage human and financial
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/522 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BANKING, CASH AND DEBTORS MANAGEMENT
REF NO: MPT/FPFAM/04/2026
Directorate: Fiscal Policy and Financial Assets Management
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (03) years' Bachelor's degree/Advanced Diploma/BTech NQF
Level 7 in Finance/Financial Management/Accounting/Banking and Financial
Risk Management. A minimum of three (03) years’ experience in the field of
banking, cash and debtors’ management environment at a junior management
level. A valid driver's license. Skills and Competencies: Competency in
Microsoft Office Suite (Excel, Word, and PowerPoint). Strong analytical
capabilities and sound report writing skills. Better understanding of the
transversal systems of BAS and LOGIS. Knowledge and experience of relevant
financial systems. Knowledge of government policies, practices, and related
Acts and regulations such as PFMA, DORA, and Treasury Regulations.
Excellent technical writing and presentation skills. Innovative problem-solving
ability. The ability to work independently. Applied knowledge of all relevant
PFMA and Treasury Regulations.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation of the service level agreement with the Provincial
Banker (contract management). Provide technical assistance to the
departments on banking-related matters. Monitor the release of payments
online and the processing of bank credit transfers. Manage the transfer of funds
to PMGs and ensure that the transfers align with the schedule and budget
allocation. Oversee the procurement and appointment process of the provincial
banker. Manage the Province’s investment portfolio by investing surplus funds
and monitoring cash availability. Advise Departments on managing outstanding
debts and guide them in developing recovery plans and strategies to improve
debt collection. Manage human and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/523 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPT/FPFAM/05/2026
Directorate: Fiscal Policy and Financial Assets Management
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (03) years' Bachelor's degree/Advanced Diploma/BTech NQF
Level 7 in Finance/Financial Management/Accounting. A minimum of three (03)
years’ experience in financial management at a junior management level. A
valid driver's license Skills and Competencies: Competency in Microsoft Office
Suite (Excel, Word, and PowerPoint). Strong analytical capabilities and sound
report writing skills. Better understanding of the transversal systems of BAS
and LOGIS. Knowledge and experience of relevant financial systems.
Knowledge of government policies, practices, and related Acts and regulations
such as PFMA, DORA, and Treasury Regulations. Excellent technical writing
and presentation skills. Innovative problem-solving ability. The ability to work
independently. Applied knowledge of all relevant PFMA and Treasury
Regulations.
DUTIES : Analyse own revenue trends and compile a monthly consolidated report for the
Departments. Support Departments and Entities in the maximisation of
revenue and monitoring performance of provincial own revenue collection and
327
compile quarterly feedback letters for feedback on revenue performance.
Analyze own revenue projections for departments. Review revenue tariffs for
Departments and recommend for approval. Conduct quarterly training for
revenue and cashiers in revenue management. Conduct quarterly revenue
forums for own revenue management. Manage human and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/524 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSVERSAL SYSTEMS TRAINING REF NO:
MPT/IFS/06/2026
Directorate: Interlinked Financial Systems
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (3) years National Diploma NQF Level 6 in Financial
Management / Supply Chain Management / Public Administration / Public
Affairs / Public Management / Information Systems / Information Technology /
Human Resource Management. A minimum of three (3) years' work experience
in Transversal systems (PERSAL/LOGIS/BAS/Vulindlela, and/or Business
Process Automations). A valid driver's license. Facilitator, Moderator, and an
Assessor certificate are an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Sound
knowledge of PFMA, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, National
Treasury Regulations, National Treasury Circulars, and Supply Chain
Management prescripts. Knowledge of Transversal Systems. Compilation of
management reports. Must have good communication (verbal and written),
interpersonal, project management, innovative thinking, report writing,
analytical, presentation, planning, and coordination skills. Competency in
Microsoft Office Suite (Excel, Word, and PowerPoint). Knowledge of
assessment of assignments/tests and moderation of assessments. Designing
training programmes/intervention.
DUTIES : Render support services to all provincial Transversal Systems users. Facilitate
and coordinate Transversal Systems training. Assess and moderate
assignments/tests for all trainees/users on Transversal Systems. Monitor
compliance with prescribed legislation, policies, and guidelines relating to all
applicable procedures. Provide support to Provincial Departments by assisting
them in obtaining management information using systems. Compiling standard
policies and procedure manuals for internal security profiles and control
deviations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/525 : SENIOR SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR: CYBERSECURITY AND CLOUD
SERVICES REF NO: MPT/ICT/07/2026
Directorate: Information and Communication Technology Management
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (3) years of Bachelor’s Degree / Advanced Diploma / BTech
NQF Level 7 in Information Technology / Computer Science. Minimum three
(03) years of experience in Cybersecurity or Cloud Services Administration. A
valid driver’s license. Microsoft Certified: Identity and Access Administrator
Associate certification, Cybersecurity Architect Expert, or Microsoft Certified:
Azure Administrator Associate certification will be an added advantage. Skills
and Competencies: Good communication, analytical, and interpersonal skills.
Good client relations. Advanced experience in Active Directory Architecture.
Advanced experience in Active Directory Infrastructure. Experience with the
development and implementation of Active Directory security concepts and IT
Security Solutions in Azure. Advanced Network Knowledge. Expert experience
in Azure automation.
DUTIES : Adoption and Implementation of the Cyber Security Strategy and Frameworks.
Cybersecurity Administration. Conduct audits, create and enforce security
policies, and ensure the province is compliant with all cybersecurity
regulations. Implementation of IT Architectures in Azure. Support of IT
Architectures in Azure, cloud operations analysis, Identity and Access
Management, and Administration. Assist Departments in the execution of
security log management, monitoring, security analysis, event correlation,
vulnerability management, impact analysis, incident and problem
328
management. Threat hunting, threat and baseline detection analysis, and root
cause analysis. Manage human and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/526 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: MPT/IA/08/2026
Directorate: Internal Audit
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (03) years' Bachelor's degree/Advanced Diploma/BTech NQF
Level 07 in Internal Audit/Accounting. A minimum of three (03) years’ work
experience in an Internal Auditing environment. A valid driver's license.
Registration as a Certified Internal Auditor (CIA), Certification in Control Self-
Assessment (CCSA), Professional Internal Auditor (PIA), and Certified
Government Auditing Professional (CGAP) will be an added advantage. Skills
and Competencies: Good Communication skills (verbal and written), conflict
management, project management, leadership, coordinating, Teammate or
other Audit Software, risk assessment, Negotiation skills, Presentation skills,
problem-solving, Planning and Organizing, Competency in Microsoft Office
Suite (Excel, Word, and PowerPoint), Report writing, and Analytical skills.
Sound knowledge of Internal Audit Methodology, Information Technology
Frameworks (CoBiT, ITIL, ISO), Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA), Treasury Regulations, Public
Service Regulations, Public Service Act, National Treasury Internal Audit
Frameworks, Public Sector Risk Management Framework, King (IV and V)
Report on Corporate Governance, Internal audit frameworks and
methodologies, Global Internal Audit Standards (GIAS). Framework for
Managing Performance Information. International Financial Reporting
Standards and Generally Recognized Accounting Practice (GRAP).
DUTIES : Develop the Internal Audit three-year rolling plan for the Provincial Treasury
and ensure the maintenance of efficient and effective controls. Evaluate the
department's controls/objectives to determine their effectiveness and efficiency
through internal audits. Implement the three (3 year) and annual Internal Audit
Plans. Coordinate work with key stakeholders and monitor the implementation
of the Internal Audit methodologies. Communicate the results of internal audit
engagements. Review, collect information, and compile internal audit reports
to the accounting officer and audit committee. Compile progress reports
against the audit plan, Quarterly reports, and annual reports. Provide advice
and guidance to role players on the requirements and implementation of
internal audit methodologies, policies, and procedures, and management of
human and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/527 : SENIOR DATA TECHNOLOGIST: DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR REF NO:
MPT/ICT/09/2026
Directorate: Information and Communication Technology Management
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (03) years' Bachelor’s degree/Advanced Diploma/BTech NQF
Level 7 in Information Technology / Computer Science in Software
Development. A minimum of three (03) years in an information technology
environment. A valid driver’s license. A certificate in Database Administration
(Oracle, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Azure SQL) will be an added
advantage. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge and Comprehensive
understanding of Database Administration. Good communication skills. Strong
technical knowledge of database platforms (e.g., Oracle, SQL Server,
PostgreSQL, MySQL, Azure SQL). SQL scripting, backups and recovery, and
performance monitoring of the SQL environment. Database security principles
and data protection; good troubleshooting skills. Business process analysis
and improvement, innovative, problem-solving; good interpersonal, conflict
management, and report writing skills. Project management. People
management and customer relations.
DUTIES : Conduct Database architectural designs and contribute to enterprise
architecture; administer enterprise database systems across production, test,
329
and development environments; perform routine database maintenance,
performance monitoring, tuning, and optimization. Execute database backups,
restorations, and recovery processes in line with approved procedures. Provide
database support during system changes, upgrades, and deployments. Apply
database security measures and audit controls to protect sensitive and
personal information. Liaise with developers, infrastructure teams, and vendors
to resolve system issues and produce technical reports related to database
performance, incidents, and risks. Maintain database documentation,
configuration records, and operational procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/528 : DATA TECHNOLOGIST: ICT SUPPORT REF NO: MPT/ICT/10/2026 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Information and Communication Technology Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (03) years' National Diploma NQF Level 06 in Information
Technology. A minimum of 2 years of end-user experience in an information
technology environment. A valid driver's license. Certificate in A+, N+,
knowledge of ITIL V3/V4 Foundation will be an added advantage. Skills and
Competencies: Good communication and Interpersonal skills. Good customer
relations. System development skills. Time management skills. Analytical skills.
Knowledge of IT support services, desktop/hardware platforms, Windows OS,
M365, Microsoft Office 365, and Apple iOS. Must be knowledgeable in the
functions of a service/helpdesk environment.
DUTIES : Provide end-user support for online services, PC hardware, and software,
including diagnostics and repairs. Log and attend to calls. System development
and process modernization. Participate in the implementation and report on IT-
related projects. Provide dedicated IT support services in online, desktop,
mobile, and virtual environments. Ensure monitoring of service SLA's and
MoUs for the desktop, mobile, and video solutions in the IT environment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/529 : DATA TECHNOLOGIST: ICT SUPPORT REF NO: MPT/ICT/11/2026
Directorate: Information and Communication Technology Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Nkangala Region (Kwa-Mhlanga)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (03) years' National Diploma NQF Level 06 in Information
Technology. A minimum of two (02) years of end-user experience in an
information technology environment. A valid driver's license. Certificate in A+,
N+, knowledge of ITIL V3/V4 Foundation will be an added advantage. Skills
and Competencies: Good communication and Interpersonal skills. Good
customer relations. System development skills. Time management skills.
Analytical skills. Knowledge of IT support services, desktop/hardware
platforms, Windows OS, M365, Microsoft Office 365, and Apple iOS. Must be
knowledgeable in the functions of a service/helpdesk environment.
DUTIES : Provide end-user support for online services, PC hardware, and software,
including diagnostics and repairs. Log and attend to calls. System development
and process modernization. Participate in the implementation and report on IT-
related projects. Provide dedicated IT support services in online, desktop,
mobile, and virtual environments. Ensure monitoring of service SLA's and
MoUs for the desktop, mobile, and video solutions in the IT environment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/530 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: SALARIES REF NO: MPT/MFA/12/2026
Directorate: Management and Financial Accounting
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (03) years' National Diploma NQF Level 06 in Accounting/
Finance/ Cost and Management Accounting / Financial Management. A
minimum of two (02) years' experience in a financial management
330
environment. A valid driver's license. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of
Public Finance Management Act, 1999 (Act No. 1 of 1999) and Treasury
Regulations and related prescripts. Computer literacy. Good communication
(verbal and written) and interpersonal skills. Planning and organizing skills.
Knowledge of PERSAL and BAS systems will be an added advantage. Ability
to apply policies and legislation; to work under pressure; to work individually
and in a team.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: Provide the administration of salaries. Capturing
supplementary payments, allowances, and deductions on PERSAL. Updating
the file of faulty and rejected transactions. Issue payroll reports and ensure
return in real-time reconciliation of tax, clearing of suspense accounts. Clearing
of PERSAL exceptions on BAS. Authorizing salary-related enquiries. pressure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/531 : HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER REF NO: MPT/HRAD/13/2026
Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (03) years' National Diploma NQF Level 06 in Human Resource
Management/Human Resource Development. A minimum of two (02) years'
experience in a Human Resources Management and Development
environment. A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Computer
literacy. Good people management and problem-solving skills. Good
communication (verbal and written) and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of
PERSAL and the e-Leave management system. Knowledge of Public Services
Prescripts, Laws, and all other relevant Human Resource policies and
prescripts.
DUTIES : Implement human resource provisioning, i.e. recruitment and selection,
appointments, transfer, termination of service, verification of qualifications,
probationary periods, etc. Implement conditions of service and service benefits,
i.e., leave management, housing, medical, injury on duty, long service
recognition, overtime, relocation, pension, allowances, etc. Capture,
recommend, and approve transactions on the PERSAL system according to
delegations. Facilitate the implementation of the performance management
and development system. Facilitate the implementation of human resource
development. Implement human resource plans, employment equity, and
policy development. Prepare reports on human resource matters and statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/532 : PROCUREMENT OFFICER REF NO: MPT/PSCM/14/2026
Directorate: Provincial Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (03) years' National Diploma NQF Level 06 in Supply Chain
Management / Logistics Management / Financial Management / Public
Administration / Public Affairs / Public Management/Business Administration. A
minimum of two (02) years’ experience in a Supply Chain Management
environment. A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of
the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 (Act No. 1 of 1999) and Treasury
Regulations and related prescripts. Competency in Microsoft Office Suite
(Excel and Word). Good communication (verbal and written) and interpersonal
skills. Planning and organizing skills.
DUTIES : Render advisory services to prospective bidders. Issuing tender
documents/bulletins. Closing of tender documents. Stamping, registering, and
sorting of received tender documents. Ensure the availability of tender
documents and bulletins. Ensure transportation of closed tender documents to
and from the Head Office/Regional Office and Satellite Offices. Registering
suppliers on the Central Suppliers Database.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
331
POST 25/533 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO:
MPT/RAS/15/2026
Sub Directorate: Records Management and Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bushbuckridge Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum three (03) years' National Diploma (NQF Level 06) in Public
Administration / Public Affairs / Public Management / Information Science /
Information Management and Technology / Archives and Records
Management / Management Assistant / Office Administration. A minimum of
two (02) years' experience in records management, auxiliary services, or
administration. A valid driver's license. A certificate in Archives and Records
Management will be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies:
Knowledge of legislative frameworks governing records management.
Knowledge of registry operations. Must have good verbal and written
communication skills, problem-solving skills, interpersonal relations, computer
literacy, report writing, planning, and organizing skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and provide registry counter services. Supervise the handling of
incoming and outgoing correspondence. Render effective filing and records
management services. Supervise the operations and operate office machines
in relation to the registry function. Supervise the processing of documents for
archiving and disposal. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
POST 25/534 : CLEANER REF NO: MPT/RAS/16/2026
Sub Directorate: Records Management and Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Gert Sibande Region (Secunda)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade Ten (10) or National Certificate (Vocational) Level 2. Skills
and Competencies: Basic literacy, numeracy, and communication skills. Ability
to read and write. Ability to operate elementary machines and equipment.
DUTIES : Maintain a high level of hygiene in the workplace. Perform tasks of a routine
nature such as dusting the working environment, polishing furniture,
vacuuming carpets, mopping the floors, removing waste and preventing
littering, and cleaning bathrooms, kitchens, boardrooms, and passages. Serve
refreshments in boardrooms as and when requested. Keep and maintain
cleaning materials and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PM Nkambule Tel No: (013) 766 4435/4374/4478, Mr DJ Sibiya Tel No:
(013) 766 4386/4138
332
ANNEXURE Y
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : quoting the relevant reference number, must be forwarded as follows: The
Directorate: Sustainable Resource Management-Head Office: The Director
Human Resource Management, Department of Agriculture and Rural
Development, Directorate: Human Resource Management, for attention of Ms
Keneilwe Modiegi or hand deliver at the Training Centre Building, Corner
Onkgopotse Tiro & Moshweshwe Road, Mmabatho or Email to
Dardrecruitment-HO@nwpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026
NOTE : This Department is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. It is
our intention to promote representatively (race, gender and disability) in the
Department through the filling of these posts and candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive
preference. Applicants must submit their applications for employment to the
address specified above. The application must include a duly completed and
signed new Form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at https://www.dpsa.gov.za/, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae CV;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please note a separate application is required for each position
applied for. Applications received using the incorrect application for
employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for employment
form must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant. Failure to
fully complete, initial and sign this form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. Applicants are not required to
submit/attach copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on
application but must submit the new (Z83) form and detailed curriculum vitae
only. The provision of certified documents will only be required from shortlisted
candidates for submission on or before the day of the interview following a
formal communication from Human Resources unit. In instances where
applicants are in possession of a foreign qualification, it is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and only submit proof of such evaluation upon
being shortlisted for a post. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other will be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Holders will be required to
submit a copy of their Permanent Residence Permits only if shortlisted.
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned instruction/
requirements, as well as applications received late will not be considered. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the above
post/s. Applications, including those submitted via registered mail must reach
the department before 16:00 on the day of the closing date. Incomplete
applications, or applications received after the closing date will be disqualified.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within 3 months of the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Please note that suitable
candidates will be subjected to a technical assessment as well as satisfactory
personnel suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial-asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification. Successful candidates will also be subjected to a
security clearance process. Women and persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. The successful candidate will be required to sign the
performance agreement within three months from the date of assumption of
duty. It will also be required that the successful candidate declare to the EA
particulars of all registrable financial interests. Short-listed candidates will be
expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. The successful
candidate will be appointed subject to positive results of the security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Appointment of these positions will be provisional, pending the issue of security
clearance.
333
OTHER POST
POST 25/535 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: NWDARD 01/07/26
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum, plus benefits (offer will be based on appropriate and
recognisable experience in line with the OSD requirements)
CENTRE : Mafikeng - Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. An Agricultural engineering degree (BSc / B Eng degree) Six [6]
years post qualification experience required as a registered Professional
Engineer (Agricultural) Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional
Engineer Valid drivers’ licence. 3 -year management experience.
Knowledge/competencies: Supervisory skills, Programme and project
management Engineering. Legal and operation compliance Engineering
operational communication Process knowledge and skills Computer – aided
engineering applications Creating high performance culture Engineering and
professional judgment Technical consulting Research and development
Engineering design and analysis knowledge Maintenance skills and knowledge
Strategic capability and leadership Problem solving and analysis Decision
making Team leadership Financial management Customer focus and
responsiveness Engineering operational Communication skills People
management Planning and organizing Change management Negotiation skills.
Occupational health and safety standards. Labour Relations Act, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations creativity and leadership skills,
problem solving and analysis, people management, Planning and organizing,
understanding of policy.
DUTIES : Provide strategic engineering advice and technical oversight for agricultural
and rural infrastructure development. Evaluate and approve technical reports,
engineering designs and project implementation plans to ensure compliance
with norms, standards and regulatory frameworks. Supervise the
implementation, maintenance and rehabilitation of agricultural infrastructure to
ensure that projects meet the departmental goals and environmental
compliance requirements. Undertake regular field inspections and quality
assessments to ensure adherence to project specifications, timelines and
financial obligations. Provide professional leadership, mentorship and training
of candidate engineers and technical personnel. Manage the sourcing,
oversight and performance monitoring external professional service providers
(PsP’s)and contractors. Perform final review and approvals or audits on new
engineering designs according to design principles or theory Co-ordinate
design efforts and integration across disciplines to ensure seamless integration
with current technology Pioneering of new engineering services and
management methods Maintain engineering operational effectiveness
Manage the execution of maintenance strategy through the provision of
appropriate structures, systems and resources Set engineering maintenance
standards, specifications and service levels according to organizational
objectives to ensure optimum operational availability Monitor maintenance
efficiencies according to organizational goals to direct or redirect engineering
services for the attainment of organizational objectives Allocate, control,
monitor and report on all resources Compile risk logs and manages significant
risk according to sound risk management practice and organizational
requirements Provide technical consulting services for the operation on
engineering related matters to minimize possible engineering risks Manage
and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g. short-term assignments and
secondments within and across operations, in support of individual
development plans, operational requirements and return on investment
Continuously monitor the exchange and protection of information between
operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge management
according to departmental objectives Ensure the availability and management
of funds to meet the MTEF objectives within the engineering
environment/services Manage the operational capital project portfolio for the
operation to ensure effective resourcing according to organizational needs and
objectives Manage the commercial value add of the discipline-related
programmes and projects Facilitate the compilation of innovation proposals to
ensure validity and adherence to organizational principles Allocate, control and
monitor expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow
management Manage the development, motivation and utilization of human
resources for the discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the
continued success of engineering services according to organizational needs
334
and requirements Manage subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and
monitoring performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations to
achieve departmental objectives. Compile reports and manage project
budgets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B. Pule Tel No: (018) 392 4277
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND ROADS
This Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representatively (race, gender and disability) e.g. White, Indian, Coloured, African, in terms of equity plan
preference will be given to Disabilities, Youth, Females in the Department through the filling of posts.
People with disability are encouraged to apply. The candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment
will promote representatively will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : All Applications must be Submitted Online, or Hand Delivered or Courier to
Registry Office no. 133, Ground Floor, East Wing-Old Parliament Building
Complex, Modiri Molema Road, Mmabatho, Addressed to: Human Resource
Manager, Private Bag X2080, Mmabatho, 2735.
FOR ATTENTION : HRM Recruitment Unit - Mr. M.E Khauoe.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026 (Courier / Handed, E-mailed applications must have reached the
receiving Department by 16h30 pm Walk-in and, E-mails After (00h00 Mid-
night) online will, as a rule will not be accepted.
NOTE : Please Note: On the Subject Line of your E-mail, Indicate the Correct Name of
the Post and the Reference Number include the Department, also Use the
correct E-mail. All Attachments for Online Submission Must Include the Z83
Form and Updated Curriculum Vitae Only be in PDF Format, also as One
Document. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Compliance:
It is compulsory to fill all fields on the New Amended Z83 Form (81/971431) as
prescribed with effect 01 January 2021, part of declaration must be signed,
dated and initialed only on the first page. The Form is obtainable at any Public
Service Departments and DPSA Website, www.dpsa.gov.za. Part A the
applicant(s) must indicate the correct advertised Post name and Centre,
Reference number. The Z83 Form must be accompanied by a recently updated
Curriculum Vitae with full personal details, qualifications current and previous
experience must be listed in date’s order, with relevant requirements of the post
including three (3) names of contactable referees. Part B, C and D applicant
must provide sufficient information relevant to the post applying for. Parts B, C
and E fields for date of birth, work permit, business interest and preferred
language, current study can be left blank if they don’t apply to you. Part E, F
and G may not be fill if your CV already has the updated information. Applicant
can skip experience section, but Part F is compulsory to be completed if you
are seeking re-employment into the Public Service. Please note: It is a
responsibility of a Person in possession of a foreign qualification to furnish the
Department with an evaluation certificate from South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Only shortlisted candidate(s) for post
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview. NB: Senior Management Pre-entry Programme Certificate: No
applicant shall be recommended for appointment without producing a
Certificate of completion (Nyukela) as a mandatory requirement obtainable via
this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. Failure to submit the requested
information will result not being considered. NOTE: All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following
the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates
will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities,
behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. NB: All
shortlisted candidates including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process.
Applications received after the closing date will, as a rule not be accepted. It
will be expected of candidates to be available for interview process on a date,
time and place as determined by the Department. Applicant(s) previous
background/reference checks will be verified through contactable referees.
Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required to undergo personnel suitability
checks, which include criminal records, citizenship, financial credits, asset
records, qualifications verification and vetting. The successful candidate will
enter into an annual performance agreement. The candidate annually will be
requested to disclose his/her financial interest. The Department reserves the
335
right not to make appointment. Applicant requiring additional information
regarding advertised post must direct their enquiries to the relevant person
indicated. NB: Communication and Correspondence will be limited to short-
listed candidates only. If you have not heard from us within six (6) months after
the closing date, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT-POSTS
POST 25/536 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: H/O 38/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office-Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus a Bachelor’s
Degree (NQF Level 7) in Financial Management/ Financial Accounting.
Honours or Postgraduate diploma in Finance will be added advantage. Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme (Nyukela Certificate). Experience: 5 years’
experience at middle/ senior managerial level. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of PFMA and Treasury
Regulations; Ability to demonstrate knowledge of Modified Cash Standard and
Accounting Manual for departments. Supply Chain Management Practices;
government procurement procedures and processes; Public Service Act;
Public Service Regulations and related HRM Acts, Competencies in terms of
the SMS Competency Framework. Skills: Good verbal and written
communication skills; Conflict Management and problem solving skills;
outstanding people management skills; Good presentation skills; Advanced
Computer skills; Strategic Management skills and Leadership skills.
Willingness to work under pressure and beyond formal working hours.
DUTIES : Manage the administration of creditor’s payments and employees’ salaries.
Manage the collection of revenue and bookkeeping services. Manage
accounting services. Manage the administration of the employee’s salaries.
Meet the reporting requirements and standards promulgated by the PFMA.
Ensure adequate internal financial control arrangement and systems and
managing the mitigating of potential risks. Manage the departmental cashflow.
Manage and monitor financial reporting. Manage and maintain the
departmental BAS System. Manage the budget of the Directorate. Compilation
of Interim Financial Statements (IFS) / Annual Financial Statements (AFS).
Manage human, assets and financial resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M.J Moipolai Tel No: (018) 388 1440
APPLICATIONS : E-mail to: DPWRHORecruit2@nwpg.gov.za
POST 25/537 : DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: H/O 39/2026 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office-Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
Level 7) in Cost Management Accounting / Financial Management/ or related
field. Honours or Postgraduate Diploma in Cost Management Accounting /
Financial Management / or related field will be added advantage. Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme (Nyukela Certificate). Experience: 5 years’
experience at middle/ senior managerial level. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of PFMA and Treasury
Regulations; Ability to demonstrate knowledge of Modified Cash Standard and
Accounting Manual for departments. Government procurement procedures
and processes; Public Service Act; Public Service Regulations and related
HRM Acts, Reporting procedures; Policy formulation and interpretation;
Competencies in terms of the SMS Competency Framework. Skills: Good
verbal and written communication skills; Conflict Management and problem
solving skills; outstanding people management skills; Good presentation skills;
Advanced Computer skills; Strategic Management skills and Leadership skills.
Willingness to work under pressure and beyond formal working hours.
DUTIES : Manage the departmental budget. Oversee the management and provision of
management accounting services: Ensure appropriate management, planning
and compilation of the MTEF budget and adjustment estimates for the
department. Oversee budget preparation process and budget monitoring for
the department. Oversee the final draft budget preparation process and provide
support to internal stakeholders’ prior submission. Manage compilation and
336
implementation of monthly forecasts. Oversee compilation and timely
submission of monthly, quarterly and annual financial performance reports and
provide recommendations and advice programmes to address significant
variances. Ensure financial statements are submitted timeously in accordance
with applicable standards and legislative requirements. Manage Departmental
Cash Flow. Ensure monitoring of operations on accounting systems, controls
and procedures to ensure the integrity of financial information. Meet the
reporting requirements and standards promulgated by the PFMA. Ensure
adequate internal financial control arrangement and systems and managing
the mitigating of potential risks. Manage and monitor expenditure reporting.
Manage and maintain the departmental BAS System. Manage human, assets
and financial resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M.J Moipolai Tel No: (018) 388 1440
APPLICATIONS : E-mail to: DPWRHORecruit2@nwpg.gov.za
POST 25/538 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: H/O 40/2026
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office - Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus Advanced Diploma/ Bachelor’s
Degree (NQF 7) in Human Resource Management/ Public Management/
Public Administration/ Labour Relations/ Industrial Psychology. Experience: 5
years’ experience at a middle/ senior management level in Human Resource
Management. Pre-entry SMS (Nyukela) Certificate. A Valid Driver’s License.
Knowledge: Extensive knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service i.e Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, etc.
Sound and in-depth experience and knowledge of relevant prescripts, and
application of human resource practices and procedures. Public Financial
Management Act. Organisational Design principles. Skills: Strategic Capability
and Leadership. Project and Programme management. Financial
management. Change management. People management and empowerment.
Planning and Organising. Computer. Analytical thinking. Policy formulation.
Effective Communication (written & Verbal). Conflict management. Service
Delivery Innovation. Problem solving analysis. Client Oriented and Customer
Focus. Ability to work in a highly pressured environment and driven by a sense
of urgency to meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate the development and implementation of Human
Resource Management policies, strategic and operational plans. Manage and
ensure the provision of human resource administration services. Manage and
facilitate human resource planning and information management systems.
Manage the provision of labour relations services. Manage and facilitate the
provision of integrated employee health and wellness programmes. Manage
the department’s organisational design and change management. Manage and
utilize resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Dr NMG Mfikwe Tel No: (018) 388 2428
APPLICATIONS : E-mail to: DPWRHORecruit1@nwpg.gov.za
POST 25/539 : DIRECTOR: PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (IAM) REF NO: H/O 41/2026 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTER : Head Office - Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus Advanced Diploma/ Bachelor’s
Degree (NQF 7) in one of the Built Environment Studies/ Real Estate /Property
Studies. Senior Management (SMS) Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela
certificate). Experience: Five (5) years’ relevant experience at middle / senior
managerial level in property management within public sector. A valid driver’s
license. Knowledge: Knowledge of the Building Regulations, Guide for
Members of Executive (Ministerial Handbook), Government Immovable Asset
Management Act (GIAMA), Public Service Act and Regulations, Supply Chain
Management Practices, Government procurement systems and related
legislation, Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) Act.
Understanding of construction management legislations and processes.
Competencies in terms of the SMS Competency Framework. Compliance with
337
the Occupational Health and Safety Act. Knowledge of labour intensive
practices within project management. Skills: Technical consulting skills.
Strategic capability and leadership skills. Programme and project management
skills. Financial Management. Change management. Service Delivery
Innovation. Problem solving and Analytical thinking. Client Orientation and
customer focus. Good communication and interpersonal relations. Ability to
work under pressure, willingness to travel and work beyond normal working
hours. Ability to work in a highly pressured environment and driven by a sense
of urgency to meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee prestige administration and facilities management
services. Manage the provision of residential accommodation to Prestige
clients. Manage the provision of cleaning, gardening and security services to
Public Works buildings, Prestige residences and Parliamentary Villages.
Manage the provision of furniture, internal decoration, state functions and
protocols. Manage security and monitor maintenance work at Prestige
residences. Manage and Coordinate the provision of general maintenance for
Prestige buildings. Manage and ensure monitoring of maintenance requests.
Manage and facilities security upgrade at prestige residences. Manage and
oversee space planning, Provincial Leased Portfolio and the provision of office
accommodation. Manage and oversee the provision of Provincial Leased office
accommodation. Provide offices to Provincial User Departments. Manage and
coordinate related Parties Agreements with provincial users. Manage planning
to ensure optimal utilization of State owned and leased office buildings.
Manage human, assets and financial resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J. Mathabela Tel No: (018) 388 4632
APPLICATIONS : E-mail to: DPWRHORecruit3@nwpg.gov.za
OTHER POST
POST 25/540 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR – FINANCIAL MONITORING & REPORTING REF NO:
H/O 42/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office-Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF
Level 7) in Financial Accounting and/or Commerce. Experience: 3-5 years
relevant middle management experience in Financial Reporting (Annual
Financial Statements). A Valid Driver License. Knowledge: Knowledge of Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations and Guidelines on
Modified Cash Basis. Skills: Computer literacy in Microsoft Excel, Microsoft
Word and PowerPoint; Basic Accounting System (BAS) and WALKER system.
Communication (verbal and written), Problem Solving and decision making,
ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines; Numerical, analytical,
reporting, financial skills. Assertiveness, accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Compile and submit interim and annual financial statements in accordance with
Modified Cash Standards and relevant guidelines issued by the National
Treasury; Maintain and monitor irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditures,
accruals and payable accounts registers. Prepare financial statements
supporting documents for audit and record purposes. Prepare statutory
monthly reports to Accounting Officer and/or Provincial Treasury. Attend to
audit related matters in time. Ensure compliance with policies and procedures.
Liaise with customers, stakeholders and suppliers. Consolidate AFS reports.
Prepare IYM, IRM and other various financial reports. Consolidate Districts
financials reports. Liaise with Auditors (PIA and AG). Manage the Sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M.J Moipolai Tel No: (018) 388 1440
APPLICATIONS : E-mail to: DPWRHORecruit2@nwpg.gov.za
338
ANNEXURE Z
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (WCED)
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted by using the following URL
https://www.westerncape.gov.za/education via Google Chrome or Mozilla
Firefox.
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026
NOTE : The applicants are advised to read the foreword available on the WCED
website before applying for the post/s. Applications must be made via the
department’s on-line E-Recruitment system. The on-line system will
automatically generate a Curriculum Vitae; applicants are therefore required to
ensure that their profiles are fully completed. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. All applicants must
be SA Citizens/Permanent Residents or Non-SA Citizens with a valid work
permit. Applicants will be expected to be available for selection interviews and
competency assessments at a time, date and place as determined by Western
Cape Education Department (WCED). The Department reserves the right to
conduct pre-employment security screening and appointment is subject to
positive security clearance outcome. Applicants must declare any/pending
criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against them.
Should this be uncovered post the interview the application will not be
considered for the post and in the unlikely event that the person has been
appointed such appointment will be terminated. If you have not been contacted
within 3 months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/541 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR REF NO: 293
Directorate: Examination Registration and Certification
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), All-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and an appropriate Bachelors'
degree or equivalent. A minimum of 3 years' management experience. A valid
driver’s licence (excluding code A/A1) Knowledge: Knowledge of Examination
policies and regulations; policies of the government of the day; Constitutional,
legal and institutional arrangements governing the South Africa public sector;
inter-governmental relations; Policy Development; Project management. Skills:
Strategic Management; Strong conceptual and formulation; leadership, with
specific reference to the ability to display thought leadership in complex
applications; Team building and strong inter-personal.
DUTIES : Managing of the certification process: Issuing certificates to full-time learners.
Issuing certificates to part-time learners (combinations). Manage the releasing
of results: Manage the testing of result programmes. Manage the process of
addressing outstanding / missing marks. Manage the remarking process.
Manage the verification of results / certification. Manage client enquiries:
Ensure all enquiries are addressed effectively. Analyse enquiry reports to
ascertain areas of improvement. Manage and co-ordinate the examination
registration process: Entry forms for the registration of candidates. Registration
of the exam and designated centres. Registration of invigilators. Manage
compilation of Examination Circulars and Minutes. Management of Human
Resources and Finance: Participation in the recruitment of staff in the numbers
and grades appropriate to ensure the achievement of the Directorate's
Business Plan. Motivate, train and guide staff within the Directorate, to achieve
and maintain excellence in service delivery. Actively manage the performance,
evaluation and rewarding of staff within the Directorate. Monitor information
capacity building within the Directorate. Active involvement in the compilation
339
of a human resource plan, a service delivery improvement programme, and an
information resources plan for the Directorate. Promote sound labour relations
within the Directorate. Actively manage and promote the maintenance of
discipline within the Directorate. Perform all the managerial tasks regarding the
component. Transformation Management. Give strategic direction to and
manage policy issues regarding the functions of the components under his/her
command. Communicate on a managerial level regarding the functions of the
component. Manage the budget of the sub-directorate. Provide input to
Directorate’s budgets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Pretorius Tel No: (021) 467 2945
POST 25/542 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE AND ETHIC ADMINISTRATION,
REF NO: 301
Directorate: Strategic People Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : cape town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification. 5 years relevant experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of people
management and ethics administration related process. Knowledge of people
management and ethics administration related systems. Knowledge of related
prescripts. Knowledge of performance management systems. Ensure
compliance with educator and public servant prescripts. Labour Relations Act,
66 of 1995. Employment of Educators Act 76 of 1998. Public Service Act, 1994.
South African Schools Act 84 of 1996. Basic Conditions of Employment Act 75
of 1997. Knowledge of other related legislation. Skills: Numeracy. Literacy.
Language skills. Computer literacy. Project management. Ability to analyse,
conceptualise and interpret policy. Conflict resolution. Presentation. Problem
solving. Analytical thinking. Communication written and verbal. Report writing
skills.
DUTIES : Operationalise, coordinate and administer the pay progression, grade
progression and other performance related incentives (SL 1-12 and
Educators). Manage the process for the identification of all relevant employees
in terms of Education Management Service (EMS), Performance Management
and Development System (PMDS), Quality Management System (QMS), Staff
Performance Management and Development System (SPMDS) and relevant
Occupation Specific Dispensations (OSDs) who are eligible for pay
progression. Provide guidance in the preparation of a database of all who are
eligible for pay progression and request Personnel and Salary system
(PERSAL) user support for a programmatic finalisation of the pay progression.
Provide guidance in the creation of a database of all employees in terms of
SPMDS eligible for performance related incentives and quality assure the
information for transaction purposes. Manage the process for the identification
of all relevant employees eligible for grade progression, determine relevant
dates and financial implications where applicable, and quality assure the
information for transaction purposes. Operationalise and report on compliance
to E-Disclosures. Manage the process for the identification of designated
employees to disclose their financial information. Develop and disseminate
communique to ensure compliance. Plan, develop, facilitate and provide
capacity building interventions to designated employees. Analyse and report
on compliance and recommend actions where there are transgressions.
Ensure that relevant information is prepared for disciplinary action where there
are transgressions. Follow up and maintain a database of all transgressions
for audit purposes. Coordinate the verification process. Report to the
Department of Public Service and Administration, Public Service Commission
and other relevant statutory bodies. Facilitate the implementation and reporting
on life-style audits within the department in accordance to prescripts. Provide
capacity building with regards to ethics administration. Provide guidance to line
managers and employees on the compilation of performance agreements (SL
1-12) on PERMIS. Advise and guide and support line managers and individuals
on the compilation of performance agreements on PERMIS. Quality assure
reports on compliance rates for oversight and moderation purposes.
Consolidate and provide capacity building interventions in this regard. Provide
guidance and advice regarding performance management policies and
systems (SL 1-12). Quality assure SPMDS documents including performance
agreements and reviews. Manage the administrator function on the
performance management systems (PERMIS) (SL 1-12) by overseeing the
340
administrator function, providing troubleshooting solutions and coordinating
and handling queries relating to the performance management system.
Develop and conduct capacity building interventions relating to performance
management system. Operationalise the performance evaluation processes
(SL 1-12). Facilitate the establishment and appointment of moderation
committee members. Provide guidance and advice throughout the
performance moderation process. Oversee the recording of outcomes of all
performance moderation processes. Coordinate the compilation of reports on
performance management including trends relating to training needs and
development gaps identified. Operationalise the probation processes (SL 1-12
and educators). Ensure the establishment and maintenance of a database of
all employees on probation. Manage the requesting of probationary reports on
a quarterly basis. Quality assure relevant documentation for probations to be
confirmed. Advise the Performance Management and Advisory Services
component where probationary periods are extended. Operationalise and
report on compliance to Remunerative Work Outside of the Public Service
(RWOPS). Develop and disseminate communique to highlight the importance
of RWOPS completion. Manage the process to obtain approval for RWOPS
applications. Draft relevant reports regarding RWOPS applications and
approvals. Quality assure information provided against relevant sources such
as the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission. Consolidate relevant
information for disciplinary action where there are transgressions. Ensure the
establishment and maintenance of a database of all transgressions for audit
purposes. Provide information to relevant role-players on RWOPS applications
and statuses. People Management. Participation in the recruitment and
selection of staff. Motivate, train and guide staff. Manages the performance,
evaluation and rewarding of staff. Monitor information capacity building.
Promote sound labour relations. Maintain discipline. Guide on policy issues
with regard to the functions of the components under his or her command.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Oosthuizen Tel No: (021) 467 2480
POST 25/543 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR REF NO: 302
Directorate: Assessment And Examination Systems Support
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a relevant Bachelors` Degree.
A valid driver's licence (excluding codes A/A1). 3-5 years’ relevant experience
in the information systems field. Experience in the field of examination and/or
assessment is a recommendation. Knowledge: Public Service legislation,
including POPI, PAIA, PAJA; Advanced knowledge of the policies and
processes governing Examinations and Assessments (National and
Provincial); Advanced knowledge of the relevant policies and prescripts
relating to information systems and data governance; Advanced knowledge of
information systems, ICT and data governance; Management and people
management principles; Project management. Skills: Computer literacy;
People management and empowerment; Planning and organising;
Communication (written, verbal and liaison); Problem-solving; Facilitation and
presentation skills; Analytical skills; Project management; Operational
planning; Innovation; Diagnostic skills; Conceptual skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate the development, implementation and review of policies to govern
examination and assessment information systems: Analyse existing policies
and prescripts that impact on examination and assessment information
systems; Draft or update policy; Consult proposed policy with all relevant
stakeholders; Distribute approved policy to relevant stakeholders; Monitor and
report on the implementation of the policy. Coordinate and monitor the
development of new assessment and examinations systems and the optimal
implementation of existing systems in the Chief Directorate, in collaboration
with Ce-I and SITA: Assist with and contribute to the analysis of context and
creation of the business case to motivate the development of the system;
Create specifications for the proposed system; Facilitate the procurement
process; Work closely with vendors (including Ce-I and SITA) to coordinate the
development of the system. Coordinate the governance of examination and
assessment systems, including the Change Control Board: Coordinate the
setting up of a Change Control Board for each system; Coordinate the
development of procedural guidelines for the Change Control Boards;
Participate in and contribute to the Change Control Board meetings;
341
Coordinate the implementation of recommendations and actions approved by
the Change Control Boards. Monitor and report on the implementation of
examination and assessment systems. Coordinate and oversee assessment
and examinations user management services: Review, update and maintain
examination and assessment system information; Coordinate the provision of
end-user support; Coordinate the system administration functions; Coordinate
and perform system health checks; Monitor and report on system issues;
Organise and conduct system training in collaboration with relevant
stakeholders (e.g., CTLI, SITA, National); Monitor and report on assessment
and examinations user management services. Coordinate and oversee
assessment and examinations training, capacity building and knowledge-
sharing practices: Organise the provision of support for the training for National
examination and assessment systems; Organise the provision of support for
the implementation and roll-out of National examination and assessment
systems; Coordinate training for Provincial examination and assessment
systems; Organise the provision of support to end-users within the Chief
Directorate; Actively promote the sharing of knowledge and information with
relevant stakeholders in the examinations and assessment operations; Monitor
and report on training, capacity building and knowledge-sharing practices.
Coordinate the Disaster Recovery Plan for the Chief Directorate in respect of
examination and assessment systems in collaboration with relevant
stakeholders, which includes: Coordinate the Chief Directorate’s planning of
different disaster scenarios; Coordinate the Chief Directorate’s development of
recovery plans; Coordinate awareness creation about disaster recovery within
the Chief Directorate; Coordinate and oversee the backup of the Chief
Directorate’s data; Monitor and report on the Disaster Recovery Plan. People
Management: Participate in the recruitment of staff in the numbers and grades
appropriate to ensure the achievement of the component’s Business Plan;
Motivate, train and guide staff within the component, to achieve and maintain
excellence in service delivery; Actively manage the performance, evaluation
and rewarding of staff within the component; Monitor information capacity
building within the component; Active involvement in the compilation of a
human resource plan, a service delivery improvement programme, and an
information resources plan for the component; Promote sound labour relations
within the component; Actively manage and promote the maintenance of
discipline within the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Bredenkamp Tel No: (021) 467 2541
POST 25/544 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR REF NO: 303
Directorate: Assessment And Examination Systems Support
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a relevant Bachelors` Degree. A
valid driver's licence (excluding codes A/A1). 3-5 years’ relevant experience in
the information systems field. Experience in the field of examination and/or
assessment is a recommendation. Knowledge: Public Service legislation,
including POPI, PAIA, PAJA; Advanced knowledge of the policies and
processes governing Examinations and Assessments (National and
Provincial); Advanced knowledge of the relevant policies and prescripts
relating to information systems and data governance; Advanced knowledge of
information systems, ICT and data governance; Management and people
management principles; Project management. Skills: Computer literacy;
People management and empowerment; Planning and organising;
Communication (written, verbal and liaison); Problem-solving; Facilitation and
presentation skills; Analytical skills; Project management; Operational
planning; Innovation; Diagnostic skills; Conceptual skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate the development, implementation and review of policies to govern
examination and assessment information systems: Analyse existing policies
and prescripts that impact on examination and assessment information
systems; Draft or update policy; Consult proposed policy with all relevant
stakeholders; Distribute approved policy to relevant stakeholders; Monitor and
report on the implementation of the policy. Coordinate and monitor the
development of new assessment and examinations systems and the optimal
implementation of existing systems in the Chief Directorate, in collaboration
with Ce-I and SITA: Assist with and contribute to the analysis of context and
creation of the business case to motivate the development of the system;
342
Create specifications for the proposed system; Facilitate the procurement
process; Work closely with vendors (including Ce-I and SITA) to coordinate the
development of the system. Coordinate the governance of examination and
assessment systems, including the Change Control Board: Coordinate the
setting up of a Change Control Board for each system; Coordinate the
development of procedural guidelines for the Change Control Boards;
Participate in and contribute to the Change Control Board meetings;
Coordinate the implementation of recommendations and actions approved by
the Change Control Boards. Monitor and report on the implementation of
examination and assessment systems. Coordinate and oversee assessment
and examinations user management services: Review, update and maintain
examination and assessment system information; Coordinate the provision of
end-user support; Coordinate the system administration functions; Coordinate
and perform system health checks; Monitor and report on system issues;
Organise and conduct system training in collaboration with relevant
stakeholders (e.g., CTLI, SITA, National); Monitor and report on assessment
and examinations user management services. Coordinate and oversee
assessment and examinations training, capacity building and knowledge-
sharing practices: Organise the provision of support for the training for National
examination and assessment systems; Organise the provision of support for
the implementation and roll-out of National examination and assessment
systems; Coordinate training for Provincial examination and assessment
systems; Organise the provision of support to end-users within the Chief
Directorate; Actively promote the sharing of knowledge and information with
relevant stakeholders in the examinations and assessment operations; Monitor
and report on training, capacity building and knowledge-sharing practices.
Coordinate the Disaster Recovery Plan for the Chief Directorate in respect of
examination and assessment systems in collaboration with relevant
stakeholders, which includes: Coordinate the Chief Directorate’s planning of
different disaster scenarios; Coordinate the Chief Directorate’s development of
recovery plans; Coordinate awareness creation about disaster recovery within
the Chief Directorate; Coordinate and oversee the backup of the Chief
Directorate’s data; Monitor and report on the Disaster Recovery Plan. People
Management: Participate in the recruitment of staff in the numbers and grades
appropriate to ensure the achievement of the component’s Business Plan;
Motivate, train and guide staff within the component, to achieve and maintain
excellence in service delivery; Actively manage the performance, evaluation
and rewarding of staff within the component; Monitor information capacity
building within the component; Active involvement in the compilation of a
human resource plan, a service delivery improvement programme, and an
information resources plan for the component; Promote sound labour relations
within the component; Actively manage and promote the maintenance of
discipline within the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Bredenkamp Tel No: (021) 467 2541
POST 25/545 : SCHOOL FINANCE AND RECORDS OFFICER: SCHOOL MANAGEMENT
AND GOVERNANCE SUPPORT REF NO: 304
District Circuit: Overberg Education District
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Caledon
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and a Three-year relevant
qualification in finance. A valid Driver's licence (excluding code A/A1). 2 years
relevant administrative experience. Preference given to finance and records
management experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant departmental
policies and procedures. Knowledge of Archives and Records Service Act.
Knowledge of Public Financial Management PFMA. Knowledge of budgeting
processes and techniques. Knowledge of Financial Systems for example
Pastel. Knowledge of School Administrative processes and procedures.
Knowledge of Information Management Systems EMIS, CEMIS and Leave
Management Systems. Knowledge of SCM processes and procedures. Skills:
Communication. Language two official languages of the Western Cape.
Computer literacy including skills in Pastel. Planning and organising.
Presentation. Report writing skills reports and submissions. Analytical and
interpretation skills. Interpersonal skills. Problem solving. Financial skills
including bookkeeping.
343
DUTIES : Monitor, verify, develop and report on all aspects of Record Management.
Check if the following registers are in place, verify that registers are in line with
policy, prescripts, norms and standards and in line with the approved National
Archives Policy: Approved File Plan. Telephone, Fax and Mail Registers. Stock
Registers for Assets, Library, LTSM, IT equipment, Tuck Shop and Key
Register. Handing Over Register and or Certificates. Learner Transport File,
including WCED 061 and Inspection Form WCED 095. Admission Register
CEMIS. Attendance Registers Educators, Public Servants and Learners.
Leave Registers Educators, Public Servants. Incident Register. Disciplinary
Registers Educators, Public Servants and Learners. Minutes of all meetings for
example Staff, SMT, RCL, SGB, SDT. Records of Training Staff, SMT, RCL,
SGB, SDT. Daily Decisions Register. Record of SACE registration for SGB
posts. Record of Health and Safety including Evacuation Plans. Assist with the
development of file plans and registers in line with prescripts. Support and
follow up on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and electronically
on all aspects of school administration to the Assistant Director School
Financial Management and Administration. Monitor, verify, develop and report
on sound Financial Administration Systems. Check that all the following
financial administration processes and practices are in line with policy,
prescripts, norms and standards and in line with the approved National
Archives Policy: Financial Management finance and procurement. School
Budget processes and meetings. Cash, receipt, class receipt and bank deposit
book. Cheque requisitions. Petty Cash. Bank Statements. Bank Reconciliation
Statements. Procurement. Asset Management including issuing and retrieval
of textbooks and furniture including hostels. Assist with administrative tasks
regarding the finance and assets with the opening and closing of schools.
Contracts SGB employment and Service Providers. Risk Management internal
control and fraud prevention. Fundraising. School Fee Exemptions. Transfer
payments electronic funds transfer. Donation Register 18A. Loans, overdrafts
and investments finance. Educator and public servants additional
remuneration Section 38A. SARS Registration and other Tax Obligations.
Municipal Accounts payment of Section 21 Schools. Assist the Public Schools
Administrative Components with the development of financial administration
processes and practices in line with policies, prescripts, norms and standards.
Assist and train with the development and implementation plan to ensure
improvement with regard to sound financial administration. Conduct school
assessment and evaluations on financial management. Support and follow up
on all required corrective actions. Report in writing and electronically on all
aspects of School Financial Administration to the Assistant Director School
Financial Management and Administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Senosi Tel No: (028) 214 7300
POST 25/546 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ASSESSMENT AND EXAMINATION:
CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF NO: 305
District Circuit: Cape Winelands Education District
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a 3-year, relevant post school
qualification. 3 years’ relevant clerical/administration experience. A valid
driver's license (excluding code A/A1). Knowledge: Provincial and national
education strategies, advanced knowledge of relevant software packages &
sound application of relevant computer programmes, NSC/SC/AET
examinations directives, various exam databases/platforms, relevant
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures (assessment and examination
policies), basic financial administration. Skills: Drafting of documents
(submissions, letters). Sound organising, planning and time management skills
(workshops, conferences events), Diary management, travel itineraries,
document flow in the office, property record minutes and decisions at meetings,
run and maintain a record management system, communicate effectively
(written and verbally), procure goods and services, work under pressure,
interpretation and application of various exam directives, client service
orientated skills, sound judgement, basic research (information gathering),
analyse documents and situations, ability to access research sources
(information platforms), function as a team member.
DUTIES : Render Assessment and examination administration services to clients within
the Education District: Execute all assessment and examination administrative
344
process within the prescribed timelines and frameworks. Verify and approve all
processed applications. Handle all investigations regarding registration,
certifications and result related enquiries and execution pot-approval.
Administer the certification process through: Processing and publishing of
results; queries and remarking: a) perform client services, b) execute queries
emanating from the client service, c) deal with all exam related result queries
in an effective and efficient manner, d) issue all results in accordance with
policy and prescripts, e) deal with all telephonic queries, f) record, reprint and
post remark and missing mar results. Certification: a) deal effectively and
efficiently with all certification queries, b) attend workshops and training
sessions relating to certifications, c) guide co-workers / clients on directives, d)
issue circulars and notifications to schools concerning certification, e) provide
and capture results for WCED, f) processing of remark requests, g) create a
database of all certificates, h) receive and distribute certificates. Administer the
registration process, including: processing of re-write requests, processing of
applications for Amended Senior Certificate (ASC); processing of applications
for National Senior Certificate (NSC) repearters / improved qualifications; verify
on-line applications; make personal and subject corrections on the Exams
mainframe; collection and filing of SBA mark sheets; send and receive
schedules and preliminary schedules from schools; receive and process
invigilator applications. Provide support with the following administrative
processes: assessment and promotion appeals; collation of School Based
Assessment (SBA), Practical Assessment Task (PAT), Oral Mark Sheets;
identification registration and auditing of examination and re-write centers; the
District Assessment Irregularities Committee (DAIC) assessment
accommodation for immigrant learners. Develop and maintain processes and
systems that will contribute towards improving efficiency of the Assessment
and Examinations unit. Oversee and provide effective guidance and advice on
the flow of information and documents, to and from the assessment and
examination coordinator. Prepare documentation and verify response
information received from schools, and other internal and external
stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and compile reports pertaining to the
assessment and examination unit and advise/sensitise the assessment and
examination coordinator e.g.: (i) progress reports; (ii) monthly reports and (iii)
management reports. Manage and maintain an effective filing system. Assist
with the planning of workshops, large meetings, conferences and events as
and when they occur. Follow up with outstanding
documentation/data/information from relevant stakeholders. Collate
Assessment and Examination data available on WCED systems such as
CEMIS, Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate assessment and
examination administrative activities and maintain the relevant administration
systems: Update and maintain the information systems for Assessment and
Examination projects (e.g. APP Projects). Compile memoranda and reports on
validity and relevance of data received from project stakeholders. Track issues
referred to and from the Assessment and Examination Coordinator through
Issue Management System (IMS). Coordinate queries related to
parliamentary/ministerial enquiries referred to the Assessment and
Examination Coordinator. Assist the Assessment and Examination Coordinator
in the analysis of business reports. Assist the Assessment and Examination
Coordinator with the drafting of progress reports. Assist with school audits for
state of readiness. Provide support to the Assessment and Examinations Unit:
Coordinate evidence/supporting documents for the Assessment and
Examination coordinator. Manage and maintain an effective filing system.
Screen documents to determine actions/information/documents required for
meetings. Collet and compile information regarding challenges that needs to
be discussed at meetings. Render secretariat services: Arrange for the
placement of items on the agenda of meetings chaired by the Assessment and
Examination Coordinator, and to ensure circulation of accompanying
memoranda. Obtain the necessary signatures on documents e.g. procurement
advices and attendance records.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Ehrenreich Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 25/547 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ASSESSMENT AND EXAMINATION:
CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF NO: 306
District Circuit: Cape Winelands Education District
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
345
CENTRE : Worcester
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, or equivalent and a 3-year, relevant post school
qualification. 3 years’ relevant clerical/administration experience. A valid
driver's license (excluding code A/A1). Knowledge: Provincial and national
education strategies, advanced knowledge of relevant software packages &
sound application of relevant computer programmes, NSC/SC/AET
examinations directives, various exam databases/platforms, relevant
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures (assessment and examination
policies), basic financial administration. Skills: Drafting of documents
(submissions, letters). Sound organising, planning and time management skills
(workshops, conferences events), Diary management, travel itineraries,
document flow in the office, property record minutes and decisions at meetings,
run and maintain a record management system, communicate effectively
(written and verbally), procure goods and services, work under pressure,
interpretation and application of various exam directives, client service
orientated skills, sound judgement, basic research (information gathering),
analyse documents and situations, ability to access research sources
(information platforms), function as a team member.
DUTIES : Render Assessment and examination administration services to clients within
the Education District: Execute all assessment and examination administrative
process within the prescribed timelines and frameworks. Verify and approve all
processed applications. Handle all investigations regarding registration,
certifications and result related enquiries and execution pot-approval.
Administer the certification process through: Processing and publishing of
results; queries and remarking: a) perform client services, b) execute queries
emanating from the client service, c) deal with all exam related result queries
in an effective and efficient manner, d) issue all results in accordance with
policy and prescripts, e) deal with all telephonic queries, f) record, reprint and
post remark and missing mar results. Certification: a) deal effectively and
efficiently with all certification queries, b) attend workshops and training
sessions relating to certifications, c) guide co-workers / clients on directives, d)
issue circulars and notifications to schools concerning certification, e) provide
and capture results for WCED, f) processing of remark requests, g) create a
database of all certificates, h) receive and distribute certificates. Administer the
registration process, including: processing of re-write requests, processing of
applications for Amended Senior Certificate (ASC); processing of applications
for National Senior Certificate (NSC) repearters / improved qualifications; verify
on-line applications; make personal and subject corrections on the Exams
mainframe; collection and filing of SBA mark sheets; send and receive
schedules and preliminary schedules from schools; receive and process
invigilator applications. Provide support with the following administrative
processes: assessment and promotion appeals; collation of School Based
Assessment (SBA), Practical Assessment Task (PAT), Oral Mark Sheets;
identification registration and auditing of examination and re-write centers; the
District Assessment Irregularities Committee (DAIC) assessment
accommodation for immigrant learners. Develop and maintain processes and
systems that will contribute towards improving efficiency of the Assessment
and Examinations unit. Oversee and provide effective guidance and advice on
the flow of information and documents, to and from the assessment and
examination coordinator. Prepare documentation and verify response
information received from schools, and other internal and external
stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and compile reports pertaining to the
assessment and examination unit and advise/sensitise the assessment and
examination coordinator e.g.: (i) progress reports; (ii) monthly reports and (iii)
management reports. Manage and maintain an effective filing system. Assist
with the planning of workshops, large meetings, conferences and events as
and when they occur. Follow up with outstanding
documentation/data/information from relevant stakeholders. Collate
Assessment and Examination data available on WCED systems such as
CEMIS, Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-ordinate assessment and
examination administrative activities and maintain the relevant administration
systems: Update and maintain the information systems for Assessment and
Examination projects (e.g. APP Projects). Compile memoranda and reports on
validity and relevance of data received from project stakeholders. Track issues
referred to and from the Assessment and Examination Coordinator through
Issue Management System (IMS). Coordinate queries related to
parliamentary/ministerial enquiries referred to the Assessment and
346
Examination Coordinator. Assist the Assessment and Examination Coordinator
in the analysis of business reports. Assist the Assessment and Examination
Coordinator with the drafting of progress reports. Assist with school audits for
state of readiness. Provide support to the Assessment and Examinations Unit:
Coordinate evidence/supporting documents for the Assessment and
Examination coordinator. Manage and maintain an effective filing system.
Screen documents to determine actions/information/documents required for
meetings. Collet and compile information regarding challenges that needs to
be discussed at meetings. Render secretariat services: Arrange for the
placement of items on the agenda of meetings chaired by the Assessment and
Examination Coordinator, and to ensure circulation of accompanying
memoranda. Obtain the necessary signatures on documents e.g. procurement
advices and attendance records.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Ehrenreich Tel No: (023) 348 4600
POST 25/548 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 307
Directorate: Examination Registration
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate degree/diploma with 3 years' relevant experience in an
Assessment and Examination or Educational environment or A National Senior
Certificate (or equivalent) with 6 years' relevant experience in an Assessment
and Examination or Educational environment. A valid driver’s licence
(excluding code A/A1). Knowledge: Examination and UMALUSI directives;
client care; information management; relevant functions, programmes and
projects of the WCED; relevant policies and acts. Working knowledge of
examination databases. Skills: Research; Analytical; communication (verbal
and non-verbal); co-ordination, conflict resolution; writing; computer literacy;
numerical.
DUTIES : Registration of candidates: Execute the registration process of candidates.
Updating of all registrations. Implementation of registration as per policy. Verify
the correctness of registration per district. Implementation of the relevant
policy. Registration of examination and designated centres: Receive and
collate all application forms. Allocation of designated centres as per learner
totals. Inform Districts of registered learners per school and subject
information. Appointment of invigilators: Advice and guidance regarding the
registration of invigilators, according to policy. Verify nominations for
appointment. Process all claims. Attend to enquiries: Execute all walk-in centre
queries: receiving all applications. Deal with complex queries. Updating the
examination information system. Deal with examination-related queries: Follow
up on all telephonic and e-mail enquiries relating to specific cases. Issue
results and confirmation letters, etc. Deal with queries regarding examination
registration: Advice and guidance to clients regarding registration, according to
the registration policy. Reporting and administration: Recordkeeping of all
received cases. Supervision: Daily supervision of staff. Training: Assist in the
planning and execution of training of Districts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Pretorius Tel No: (021) 467 2945
POST 25/549 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 308
Directorate: Examination Registration
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate degree/diploma with 3 years' relevant experience in an
Assessment and Examination or Educational environment or A National Senior
Certificate (or equivalent) with 6 years' relevant experience in an Assessment
and Examination or Educational environment. A valid driver’s licence
(excluding code A/A1). Knowledge: Examination and UMALUSI directives;
client care; information management; relevant functions, programmes and
projects of the WCED; relevant policies and acts. Working knowledge of
examination databases. Skills: Research; Analytical; communication (verbal
and non-verbal); co-ordination, conflict resolution; writing; computer literacy;
numerical.
DUTIES : Registration of candidates: Execute the registration process of candidates.
Updating of all registrations. Implementation of registration as per policy. Verify
the correctness of registration per district. Implementation of the relevant
347
policy. Registration of examination and designated centres: Receive and
collate all application forms. Allocation of designated centres as per learner
totals. Inform Districts of registered learners per school and subject
information. Appointment of invigilators: Advice and guidance regarding the
registration of invigilators, according to policy. Verify nominations for
appointment. Process all claims. Attend to enquiries: Execute all walk-in centre
queries: receiving all applications. Deal with complex queries. Updating the
examination information system. Deal with examination-related queries: Follow
up on all telephonic and e-mail enquiries relating to specific cases. Issue
results and confirmation letters, etc. Deal with queries regarding examination
registration: Advice and guidance to clients regarding registration, according to
the registration policy. Reporting and administration: Recordkeeping of all
received cases. Supervision: Daily supervision of staff. Training: Assist in the
planning and execution of training of Districts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Pretorius Tel No: (021) 467 2945
POST 25/550 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT REF NO: 309
District Circuit: Overberg Education District
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Caledon
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) plus a relevant 3 year post school
qualification. 1 year clerical or administrative experience. Knowledge:
Extensive knowledge of applicable policies and procedures. Public service
procedures. Knowledge of people management processes. Labour relations.
Financial management. Project planning. Skills: Interpret and apply relevant
policies and procedures. People resource planning. Problem solving. Sound
budgeting. Facilitation. Presentation. Communication. Analytical skills.
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Implement and administer the Workplace Skills Plan at district level. Assist with
the process to obtain and collate training needs. Provide support to the DCES
People Management in drafting the Workplace Skills Plan in conjunction with
the District Skills Development Committee. Assist with the implementation of
the Workplace Skills Plans. Ensure that administration pertaining to training
interventions is up to date, accurate and thorough. Assist the DCES People
Management with the compilation of training reports ensuring alignment with
SETA requirements. Administer the training and professional development plan
at district level. Administer the process regarding the identification and
nomination of candidates and participants for in-service training courses.
Administer the identification and nomination of teachers for the Teacher
Qualification Improvement Programmes. Administer the roll out of the District
Professional Development Plan and monitor against the approved budget.
Administer the implementation of SACE CPTD MS. Assist in the administration
and monitoring of professional participation at school level in line with
Professional Growth Plans School Improvement Plans and WCED
Professional Development Priorities. Administer and ensure that all data
pertaining to professional development points of teachers are captured
accurately and are relevant per district intervention. Compile submissions of
district interventions for CPTD MS from district components for SACE
endorsement. Provide administrative support to teachers or refer them to
relevant support systems regarding participation in the CPTD Management
System and professional development uptake. Administer and monitor the
National Teaching Awards process at district level. Compile monthly quarterly
and annual reports for WCED and CTLI relating to training interventions. Assist
with the monitoring and administration of the Staff Performance Management
Systems at district and school level. Assist in the administration and
dissemination of performance management training information. Schedule and
plan performance management events and activities aligning plans and
timetables with Head Office structures and assist in compiling progress reports.
Assist with administrative and operational support for alignment of individual
and district performance plans. Assist with communication dissemination and
gathering of information on performance management implementation trends
and report to supervisor. Administer and file personal development plans skills
development programmes and performance related management processes
and assist in identifying gaps and overlaps. Develop implement and comply
with new and amended departmental policies and procedures at district and
school level. File all documents relating to the SPMS including IPDP quarterly
348
review forms appraisal certificates and circulars. Render support and advice to
district management regarding the Employee Assistance Programme.
Facilitate mediation of policies procedures and guidelines and provide support
to staff on interpretation of the EAP policy through workshops and information
sessions. Assist with provision of information on appropriate health welfare and
psychosocial facilities support and counselling services. Draft letters and
progress or status reports as required in terms of prescripts and policies.
Perform supervisory functions attached to the post. Provide general
supervision of employees. Allocate duties and conduct quality control of work
delivered. Advise and lead employees in all aspects of work. Assess staff
performance. Develop employees to deliver work at required standards
efficiently and effectively. Develop implement and monitor work systems and
processes. Manage and promote maintenance of discipline. Participate in
recruitment and selection where required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. I Senosi Tel No: (028) 214 7300
POST 25/551 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 310
Directorate: Provincial Printing
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate degree/diploma with 3 years' relevant experience in an
Examination or Educational environment or A National Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with 6 years' relevant experience in an Examination or Educational
environment. A valid driver’s licence (excluding code A/A1). Knowledge:
Project Planning; Relevant National and Provincial legislation and regulations
pertaining to Finance. Relevant National and Provincial Legislation and
regulations pertaining to Human Resource Management; SA Schools Act (as
revised); General and Further Education and Training Quality Assurance Act
(as revised); Relevant National and Provincial legislation pertaining to Conduct,
Administration and Management of Assessment (SC-Report 550 / NSC /
ABET); Education Department Service Delivery Charter (Batho Pele); Western
Cape Education Department Service Delivery Model; PFMA (1999) as
amended; new developmental trends in the printing industry. Skills: Written and
verbal communication (at least 2 official languages of the province); Numeracy
skills; Literacy skills; Team building; Motivational; Planning and organizing;
People management skills; Computer literacy (Microsoft Office); Writing.
DUTIES : Administer the Printing Process regarding question Papers: Plan and Prioritise
question papers according to the Project Plan (including exam timetables);
Verify the number of question paper files received from Division Processing
Question Papers and sign acknowledgement of receipt; Update management
plans to inform printing, packing and distribution processes (timeframes,
delivery dates, printing information); Administer the digipath process for routing
print jobs; Report to supervisor (daily); Oversee that the printing quality
corresponds with what has been requested by the client; Signing off first proof;
Ensure integrity of examination papers and that the security and standard
operating procedures are follows; Ensure by means of continuous random
checks that the quality of the printing work is according to specification; Ensure
that all damaged and spoilt question papers are destroyed according to
procedures. Administer all other printing processes (other than Question
Papers): Plan and prioritise all incoming printing requests; Liaise with client if
necessary, regarding printing request; Ensure that printing is done according
to client specifications and within timeframes; Ensure by means of continuous
random checks that the quality of the printing work is according to specification.
Oversee the sealing process (question papers and other printing): Plan and
prioritise sealing process requests; Oversee that the sealing quality
corresponds with what has been requested by the client; Ensure by means of
continuous random checks that the quality of the sealing work is according to
specification. Administer the Storeroom: Oversee stocktaking on regular basis
and ensure that stock levels are correct; Ensure that keeping abreast of newest
technology (printing equipment and consumables); Responsible for the
specifications and quotation regarding technology and consumables;
Responsible for the verification of invoices; Ensure that invoices are sent to
Division Administrative Support Services for payment. Administer the process
for repairs and maintenance of Equipment: Responsible for quotations from
service providers; Responsible for certifying that services rendered were
satisfactory and that the supplier is entitled to payment; Arrange for payments.
349
Responsible for Security in Printing Room/Building: Ensure security on the
printing floor; Maintain the security system (Electronic System); Responsible
for the monitoring security at printing room (restricted areas) (Electronic
System); Ensure that security systems are in working condition and upgraded
Regularly; Responsible for reporting any problems relating to the security
system to management and service provider; Responsible for access in
printing room (Access clearance); Responsible for keys for lock-up of the
building and locks of the strongroom and storeroom. Responsible for software
matters (Printing Equipment): Identify problem areas and arrange for corrective
steps; Responsible for the upgrading of software; Responsible for submission
to upgrade software; Send it to Management for approval. Supervisory: Plan
and organise work of print operators; Continuous evaluation of staff (PERMIS);
Performance Management (PERMIS); Leave Management; Training and
development of staff in division; Disciplinary responsibility and corrective steps
to improve performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Pretorius Tel No: (021) 467 2945
POST 25/552 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 311
Directorate: Provincial Printing
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate degree/diploma with 3 years' relevant experience in an
Examination or Educational environment or A National Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with 6 years' relevant experience in an Examination or Educational
environment. A valid driver’s licence (excluding code A/A1. Knowledge: Project
Planning; Relevant National and Provincial legislation and regulations
pertaining to Finance; Relevant National and Provincial Legislation and
regulations pertaining to Human Resource Management; SA Schools Act (as
revised); General and Further Education and Training Quality Assurance Act
(as revised); Relevant National and Provincial legislation pertaining to Conduct,
Administration and Management of Assessment (SC-Report 550 / NSC /
ABET); Education Department Service Delivery Charter (Batho Pele); Western
Cape Education Department Service Delivery Model; PFMA (1999) as
amended; new developmental trends in the printing industry. Skills: Written and
verbal communication (at least 2 official languages of the province); Numeracy
skills; Literacy skills; Team building; Motivational; Planning and organizing;
People management skills; Computer literacy (Microsoft Office); Writing.
DUTIES : Administer the Printing Process regarding question Papers: Plan and Prioritise
question papers according to the Project Plan (including exam timetables);
Verify the number of question paper files received from Division Processing
Question Papers and sign acknowledgement of receipt; Update management
plans to inform printing, packing and distribution processes (timeframes,
delivery dates, printing information); Administer the digipath process for routing
print jobs; Report to supervisor (daily); Oversee that the printing quality
corresponds with what has been requested by the client; Signing off first proof;
Ensure integrity of examination papers and that the security and standard
operating procedures are follows; Ensure by means of continuous random
checks that the quality of the printing work is according to specification; Ensure
that all damaged and spoilt question papers are destroyed according to
procedures. Administer all other printing processes (other than Question
Papers): Plan and prioritise all incoming printing requests; Liaise with client if
necessary, regarding printing request; Ensure that printing is done according
to client specifications and within timeframes; Ensure by means of continuous
random checks that the quality of the printing work is according to specification.
Oversee the sealing process (question papers and other printing): Plan and
prioritise sealing process requests; Oversee that the sealing quality
corresponds with what has been requested by the client; Ensure by means of
continuous random checks that the quality of the sealing work is according to
specification. Administer the Storeroom: Oversee stocktaking on regular basis
and ensure that stock levels are correct; Ensure that keeping abreast of newest
technology (printing equipment and consumables); Responsible for the
specifications and quotation regarding technology and consumables;
Responsible for the verification of invoices; Ensure that invoices are sent to
Division Administrative Support Services for payment. Administer the process
for repairs and maintenance of Equipment: Responsible for quotations from
service providers; Responsible for certifying that services rendered were
350
satisfactory and that the supplier is entitled to payment; Arrange for payments.
Responsible for Security in Printing Room/Building: Ensure security on the
printing floor; Maintain the security system (Electronic System); Responsible
for the monitoring security at printing room (restricted areas) (Electronic
System); Ensure that security systems are in working condition and upgraded
Regularly; Responsible for reporting any problems relating to the security
system to management and service provider; Responsible for access in
printing room (Access clearance); Responsible for keys for lock-up of the
building and locks of the strongroom and storeroom. Responsible for software
matters (Printing Equipment): Identify problem areas and arrange for corrective
steps; Responsible for the upgrading of software; Responsible for submission
to upgrade software; Send it to Management for approval. Supervisory: Plan
and organise work of print operators; Continuous evaluation of staff (PERMIS);
Performance Management (PERMIS); Leave Management; Training and
development of staff in division; Disciplinary responsibility and corrective steps
to improve performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Pretorius Tel No: (021) 467 2945
POST 25/553 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICER REF NO: 312
Directorate: Professional Development
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kuils River
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and an appropriate Diploma/Degree
or equivalent. 3 years' relevant experience. A valid driver’s licence (excluding
code A/A1). Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and national education
policies and procedures; Knowledge of relevant legislation/policies/prescripts
and procedures; Basic financial administration. Skills: Numeracy; Literacy;
Computer Literacy; Language skills; Project Management; Strong conceptual
and formulation skills; Analytical skills; Strong leadership skills with specific
reference to the ability to display thought leadership in complex applications;
Team building and strong inter-personal skills; Excellent communication skills;
Outstanding planning, organizing and people management skills; Presentation
skills.
DUTIES : Render line administrative support services: Provide administrative support
with regards to the teacher appreciation and recognition programmes and
projects: Liaise with and provide support to districts and schools; Assist with
administrative processes; Assist with financial and procurement (of goods and
services) processes: Compile requisition forms for submission; Coordination of
travel and subsistence claims; Provide administrative support with regards to
the delivery of provincial and national teacher professional development
initiatives: Assist with administrative processes. Perform administrative tasks:
Type out registers; Produce name tags for participants to seminars; Verify
claims are correct and properly processed; Assist with financial and
procurement (of goods and services) processes. Maintain database for the in-
service bursary scheme for educators: Updating the bursary scheme database:
Verify bursary forms and supporting documents; Capture bursary holders’
details. Report on bursary holders and course statistics; Draw data and compile
reports. Assist with the management and implementation of the Continuous
Professional Teacher Development Management System (CPTD MS): Assist
with the communication to Head Office components, Districts and stakeholders
regarding the implementation of the CPTD MS; Provide support to the
provincial coordinator regarding seminars, workshops, meetings and general
queries; Receive attendance registers, update them on the system, and keep
track of registers for CPTD MS professional development point uploading.
Render general administrative support services: Ensure and advise on the
effective flow of information and documents to and from the component;
Ensure the safekeeping of all documentation in line with relevant legislation
and policies; Obtain inputs and collate and compile reports, e.g.: Progress
reports; Monthly reports; Management reports. Scrutinise routine
submissions/reports and make abbreviated notes and/or recommendations for
the manager; Respond to enquiries received from internal and external
stakeholders; Draft documents as required; Collect, analyse and collate
information requested by the manager; Ensure that travel arrangements are
well coordinated. Provide support to the manager regarding meetings:
Scrutinise documents to determine actions/information/documents required for
the meeting; Collect and compile all necessary documents for management, to
351
inform management on the contents; Record minutes/decisions and
communicate to relevant role-players, follow-up on progress made and prepare
briefing notes for the manager; Coordinate logistical arrangements for
meetings when required. Render advice and liaise with regard to administrative
matters: Keep updated on WCED administrative policies; Studies the relevant
Public Services and departmental prescripts/policies and other documents and
ensure that the application thereof is understood properly; Remain abreast with
procedures and processes that apply to the component; Compile reports and
submissions on request.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G De Bruyn Tel No: (021) 834 2800
POST 25/554 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 313
Directorate: Chief Directorate Districts
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and Secretarial Diploma or
equivalent 1–2-year post matric qualification. 3 years clerical/administrative
experience in rendering support services to senior management. Knowledge
of the relevant legislation; policies; prescripts and procedures. Basic
knowledge of financial administration. Skills: Language skills and ability to
communicate well with people at different levels from different backgrounds.
Good telephone etiquette. High level of reliability. Computer literacy. Sound
organisational skills. Good people skills. Written communication skills. Ability
to act with tact and discretion. Ability to do research and analyse documents
and situations. Self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the manager: Receive
telephone calls in an environment where, in addition to the calls for the senior
manager, discretion is required to decide to whom the call should be forwarded.
In the process the job incumbent should finalize some enquiries. Perform
advanced typing work. Operate and ensure that office equipment, e.g. fax
machines and photocopiers, are in good working order. Record engagements
of the senior manager. Utilise discretion to decide whether to accept/decline or
refer to other employees’ requests for meetings, based on the assessed
urgency of the matter. Co-ordinate with and sensitise/advise the manager
regarding engagements. Compile realistic schedules of appointments. Render
administrative support services: Ensure the effective flow of information and
documents to and from the office of the manager. Ensure the safekeeping of
all documentation in the office of the manager in line with relevant legislation
and policies. Obtain input, collate and compile reports e.g. progress reports,
monthly reports and management reports. Scrutinise routine submissions /
reports and make notes and/or recommendations for the manager. Respond
to enquiries received from internal and external stakeholders. Draft documents
as required. Filing of documents for the manager and the unit where required.
Collect, analyse and collate information requested by the manager. Clarify
instructions and notes on behalf of the manager. Ensure that travel
arrangements are well coordinated. Prioritise issues in the office of the
manager. Manage the leave register and telephone accounts for the unit.
Handle the procurement of the standard items like stationery, refreshments etc.
for the activities of the manager and the unit. Obtain the necessary signatures
on documents like procurement advice and monthly salary reports. Provide
support to manager regarding meetings: Scrutinise documents to determine
actions/information/other documents required for meetings. Collect and
compile all necessary documents for the manager to inform him/her of the
contents. Record minutes/decisions and communicates to relevant role
players, follow-up on progress made. Prepare briefing notes for the manager
as required. Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings when required.
Support the manager with the administration of the manager’s budget: Collect
and co-ordinate all the documents that relate to the manager’s budget. Assist
manager in determining funding requirements for purposes of MTEF
submissions. Keep records of expenditure commitments, monitor expenditure
and alert manager of possible over- and under spending. Check and correlate
BAS reports to ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly. Identify the need
to improve funds between items, consult with the manager and compile draft
memos for these purposes. Compare the MTEF allocation with the requested
budget and inform the manager of changes. Study the relevant Public Service
and departmental prescripts / policies and other documents and ensure that
352
the application thereof is understood properly: Remain up to date regarding the
prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to his / her work terrain to
ensure efficient and effective support to the manager. Remain abreast with the
procedures and processes that apply in the office of the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H van Ster Tel No: (021) 467 2089
POST 25/555 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICER: DISTRICT CIRCUITS: CIRCUIT 6
REF NO: 323
District Circuit: Metro South Education District
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Ottery
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent) and 3 years relevant clerical or
administrative experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of provincial and national
education strategies. Advanced knowledge of relevant software packages and
sound application of relevant computer programmes. Knowledge of relevant
legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures. Basic financial administration.
Skills: Ability to draft documentation including submissions and letters. Sound
organising, planning and time management skills including diary management,
travel itineraries and document flow. Ability to record minutes and decisions at
meetings. Ability to run and maintain a record management system.
Communicate effectively both written and verbally. Procure goods and
services. Work under pressure. Make sound judgments. Conduct basic
research and information gathering. Analyse documents and situations. Ability
to access research sources and information platforms. Function as a team
member.
DUTIES : Render line administrative support services. Assist management support staff
in all administrative duties. Develop and maintain processes and systems that
will contribute towards improving efficiency in the circuit office. Oversee and
provide effective guidance and advice on the flow of information and
documents, to and from the circuit. Prepare documentation and verify
responses information received from schools, and other internal and external
stakeholders. Obtain inputs, collate and compile reports pertaining to the circuit
and advise/ sensitise the office, e.g.: (i) Progress reports, (ii) Monthly reports,
and (iii) Management reports. Assist with monitoring and evaluating the
performance of the circuit office on an ongoing basis against predetermined
objectives. Ensure that effective records are kept of the activities and resources
of the circuit. Assist with the planning and execution of workshops, large
meetings, conferences as and when they occur. Follow up with outstanding
documentation / data /information from schools. Collate circuit data available
on WCED systems such as CEMIS, Eduinfosearch, SAMI, DMIS, etc. Co-
ordinate M&E activities and maintain the relevant systems. Update and
maintain the M&E systems for circuit projects (e.g. APP Projects). Provide
support to conduct basic research on education providers and their activities
at schools in the circuit. Compile memoranda and reports on validity and
relevance of data received from project stakeholders. Track issues referred to
and from the circuit office through Issue Management System (IMS).
Coordinate projects development queries-related parliamentary/ ministerial
enquiries referred to the circuit. Analyse reports and make notes and/or
recommendations with regard to projects implemented by the circuit. Assist the
circuit manager in the analysis of business reports. Draft progress reports on
all plans. Keep detail records of teacher and school performance. Provide
support to the circuit for supply chain management. Coordinate evidence/
supporting documents for the circuit. Manage and maintain an effective filing
system. Screen documents to determine actions/information/documents
required for meetings. Collect and compile information on project with regard
to issues that needs to be discussed at meetings. Render secretariat services,
arrange for the placement of project related items on the agenda of meetings
chaired by the Circuit Manager, and ensure circulation of accompanying
memoranda. Manage the procurement of standard items, like stationary,
refreshments etc. for the circuit office. In terms of the project-related activities,
obtain the necessary signatures on documents e.g. procurement advices and
attendance records. Keep record of all procurement activities. Render advice
and liaise w.r.t administrative matters. Keep updated on WCED school online
systems including, but not limited to, LTSM online system, SAMI, CEMIS and
Eduinfosearch. Studies the relevant public services and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the application thereof
353
is understood properly. Remain abreast with project procedures and processes
that apply to the district office. Advise relevant stakeholders on departmental
prescripts and policies regarding own KRAs. Compile reports and submissions
on request.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Meyer-Williams Tel No: (021) 703 3198
POST 25/556 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 324
Directorate: Teaching Practice Improvement
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Kuils River
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent). A minimum of one year experience
in an administrative environment. Knowledge: Knowledge of administration
duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate a computer and
collect information. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service; Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment. Skills: Numeracy; Literacy: Typing; Computer Literacy;
Attention to detail (Accuracy); Planning and organisation; Good verbal and
written communication; Budgeting and finance; Flexibility and teamwork.
DUTIES : Assisting with pre-delivery administration management: Prepare and send
confirmation and declaration letters to qualifying course participants. Follow-up
on outstanding declaration letters from course participants; Prepare and
administer bulk SMS and or e-mails to confirm and communicate with course
participants regarding logistics for courses; Prepare Master Participant profile,
create classrooms on LMS; Follow-up on incomplete information on the Master
profile; Prepare attendance registers and data spreadsheets for pre-course
confirmation; Follow-up on catering in consultation with Training Co-ordinator;
Prepare and managing the links for online training sessions and prepare
registers for online sessions, MS Teams and LMS; Ensure venues are set up
for programme delivery, prepare registration tables, set up signage, etc;
Prepare meeting packs/and or training material; Receive substitute documents
and follow-up on incomplete documents. Assisting with post-delivery
administration management: Record substitute documents, quality assure
documents for submission for payment to Directorate: Service Benefits Multi-
Functional Teams; Record and process subsistence and travel (S&T) claims
for necessary authorisation. Prepare and quality assure the certificate. Lists for
verification and necessary authorisation; finalise master participant profile for
final auditing verification purposes; Dispatch e-Certificates to qualifying course
participants. Preparing data for compliance reports: Verifying master
participant profile with latest PERSAL data; Record, organise, store, capture
and retrieve correspondence and data; Update registers and databases; Keep
and maintain the filing system for the component by filing documents and
record-keeping. Quality assuring audit data. Provide a general clerical support
service: Type letters and/or other correspondence when required; Compile
letters; Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the
component; Handle routine enquiries; Make photocopies; Distribute
documents/packages to various stakeholders as required; Capture and update
expenditure; Keep record of budget allocation; Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit for approval.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G De Bruyn Tel No: (021) 834 2800
POST 25/557 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 314
Directorate: Leadership Academy
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Kuils River
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Knowledge: Knowledge of
administration duties and practices as well as the ability to capture data,
operate a computer and collect information; Knowledge and understanding of
the legislative framework governing the Public Service; Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Numeracy, literacy,
typing, computer literacy, language skills; Attention to detail (accuracy),
Planning and organisation; Good verbal and written communication; Budgeting
and finance; Flexibility and teamwork.
DUTIES : Render course administration and logistical support for programme delivery:
Logistical and secretarial support for meetings, workshops and functions;
Booking of venues; Arranging for catering; Follow up and confirm course
354
attendance; Liaise with stakeholders; Prepare meeting packs and material;
Setting up of venues/ Set up of participant profiles/Share links; Liaising with
schools to host training sessions; Arrange for welcoming and thanking
facilitators; Set up and prepare training venues; Handle course registration:
online course registration; prepare registration tables, signage etc. Arrange
travelling and accommodation; Administer subsistence and travel (S&T)
claims. Provide general clerical support services: Record, organise, store,
capture and retrieve correspondence and data; Update registers and
databases; Handle routine enquiries; Make photocopies; Distribute
documents/packages to various stakeholders as required; Keep and maintain
the filing system for the component: Filing of documents; Record keeping. Type
letters and/or other correspondence when required: Compile letters. Keep and
maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component:
Capture and update the IMS system for submissions and circulars; IMS
number generation; Route submissions/circulars/documents; Track
documents and submissions and correspondence. Provide supply chain
clerical support services: Capture and update expenditure; Keep record of
budget allocation; Check the correctness of subsistence and travel claims of
officials and submit them for approval.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G De Bruyn Tel No: (021) 834 2800
POST 25/558 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE REF NO:
315
District Circuit: Metro Central Education District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, taking minutes, operate
computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Computer skills.
Planning and organisation. Language. Good verbal and written communication
skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Keep and
update databases of the management and governance projects. Handle
routine enquiries and keep record of enquiries. Make photocopies and receive
or send facsimiles and e-mails when necessary. Distribute
documents/packages to various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain
the filing system for the component. Type letters, presentations, training
material, minutes, business plans and/or other correspondence when required.
Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the
component. Assist with meeting arrangements. Render reception duties where
applicable. Assist with office support duties within the component Management
and Governance. Provide supply chain clerical support services within the
component. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to
procurement of goods and services. Assist the Admin Support Officer with
procurement processes. Stock control for the component. Keep and maintain
the asset register of the component. Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component. Maintain a leave register for the
component. Keep and maintain personnel records in the component. Keep and
maintain the attendance register of the component. Arrange travelling and
accommodation and claims. Keep detail records of the units visits and activities
in schools. Provide financial administration support services in the component.
Capture and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims and submit for approval. Handle telephone call
record book, telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Abrahams Tel No: (021) 514 6921
POST 25/559 : OPERATOR REF NO: 316
Directorate: Provincial Printing
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (or equivalent). Certificate in Digital and Analogical Copier.
Knowledge: Operating specific equipment including digital printers, plastic
355
wrapping device, industrial guillotine and industrial shredder. Skills: Analytical
skills. Excellent communication skills. Strong decision-making skills. Good
verbal and non-verbal communication skills. Computer literacy skills.
Numeracy skills. Cultural protocol. Public relations. Ability to keep attention to
detail and accuracy under pressure with strong analytical and problem-solving
skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for the digipath. Generate all printing jobs including sensitive and
non-sensitive jobs. Composition and layout of print jobs. Sound digipath
management including archiving and retrieving of print jobs. Back up of
digipath. Responsible for print job format. Give advice to clients on printing
format, layout and finishing requirements. Responsible for printing. Receiving
and checking exam papers digitally. Ensuring that question papers and
addendums run in sequence. Destroy all damaged and spoilt question papers.
Responsible for exception reports. Report back on the error reports made from
the plastic wrapping machine and give feedback to supervisor. Provide
feedback to supervisor on status of completed work, work in progress, queue
and developed status. Printing of documents. Finishing of printed documents.
Check that the quality of the printing work is according to specifications. Check
that the plastic wrapping of question papers and other sensitive material is
according to specifications. Storage of printing material on printing server.
Dispatch printed documentation including hand-over of non-sensitive
documents. Security at access points in the printing room. Assist with the
entrance and exits by the public. Open shutter door for delivery of stationery
and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Berry Tel No: (021) 467 2265
POST 25/560 : OPERATOR REF NO: 317
Directorate: Provincial Printing
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (or equivalent). Certificate in Digital and Analogical Copier.
Knowledge: Operating specific equipment including digital printers, plastic
wrapping device, industrial guillotine and industrial shredder. Skills: Analytical
skills. Excellent communication skills. Strong decision-making skills. Good
verbal and non-verbal communication skills. Computer literacy skills.
Numeracy skills. Cultural protocol. Public relations. Ability to keep attention to
detail and accuracy under pressure with strong analytical and problem-solving
skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for the digipath. Generate all printing jobs including sensitive and
non-sensitive jobs. Composition and layout of print jobs. Sound digipath
management including archiving and retrieving of print jobs. Back up of
digipath. Responsible for print job format. Give advice to clients on printing
format, layout and finishing requirements. Responsible for printing. Receiving
and checking exam papers digitally. Ensuring that question papers and
addendums run in sequence. Destroy all damaged and spoilt question papers.
Responsible for exception reports. Report back on the error reports made from
the plastic wrapping machine and give feedback to supervisor. Provide
feedback to supervisor on status of completed work, work in progress, queue
and developed status. Printing of documents. Finishing of printed documents.
Check that the quality of the printing work is according to specifications. Check
that the plastic wrapping of question papers and other sensitive material is
according to specifications. Storage of printing material on printing server.
Dispatch printed documentation including hand-over of non-sensitive
documents. Security at access points in the printing room. Assist with the
entrance and exits by the public. Open shutter door for delivery of stationery
and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Berry Tel No: (021) 467 2265
POST 25/561 : OPERATOR REF NO: 318
Directorate: Provincial Printing
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (or equivalent). Certificate in Digital and Analogical Copier.
Knowledge: Operating specific equipment including digital printers, plastic
wrapping device, industrial guillotine and industrial shredder. Skills: Analytical
356
skills. Excellent communication skills. Strong decision-making skills. Good
verbal and non-verbal communication skills. Computer literacy skills.
Numeracy skills. Cultural protocol. Public relations. Ability to keep attention to
detail and accuracy under pressure with strong analytical and problem-solving
skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for the digipath. Generate all printing jobs including sensitive and
non-sensitive jobs. Composition and layout of print jobs. Sound digipath
management including archiving and retrieving of print jobs. Back up of
digipath. Responsible for print job format. Give advice to clients on printing
format, layout and finishing requirements. Responsible for printing. Receiving
and checking exam papers digitally. Ensuring that question papers and
addendums run in sequence. Destroy all damaged and spoilt question papers.
Responsible for exception reports. Report back on the error reports made from
the plastic wrapping machine and give feedback to supervisor. Provide
feedback to supervisor on status of completed work, work in progress, queue
and developed status. Printing of documents. Finishing of printed documents.
Check that the quality of the printing work is according to specifications. Check
that the plastic wrapping of question papers and other sensitive material is
according to specifications. Storage of printing material on printing server.
Dispatch printed documentation including hand-over of non-sensitive
documents. Security at access points in the printing room. Assist with the
entrance and exits by the public. Open shutter door for delivery of stationery
and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Berry Tel No: (021) 467 2265
POST 25/562 : OPERATOR REF NO: 319
Directorate: Provincial Printing
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (or equivalent). Certificate in Digital and Analogical Copier.
Knowledge: Operating specific equipment including digital printers, plastic
wrapping device, industrial guillotine and industrial shredder. Skills: Analytical
skills. Excellent communication skills. Strong decision-making skills. Good
verbal and non-verbal communication skills. Computer literacy skills.
Numeracy skills. Cultural protocol. Public relations. Ability to keep attention to
detail and accuracy under pressure with strong analytical and problem-solving
skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for the digipath. Generate all printing jobs including sensitive and
non-sensitive jobs. Composition and layout of print jobs. Sound digipath
management including archiving and retrieving of print jobs. Back up of
digipath. Responsible for print job format. Give advice to clients on printing
format, layout and finishing requirements. Responsible for printing. Receiving
and checking exam papers digitally. Ensuring that question papers and
addendums run in sequence. Destroy all damaged and spoilt question papers.
Responsible for exception reports. Report back on the error reports made from
the plastic wrapping machine and give feedback to supervisor. Provide
feedback to supervisor on status of completed work, work in progress, queue
and developed status. Printing of documents. Finishing of printed documents.
Check that the quality of the printing work is according to specifications. Check
that the plastic wrapping of question papers and other sensitive material is
according to specifications. Storage of printing material on printing server.
Dispatch printed documentation including hand-over of non-sensitive
documents. Security at access points in the printing room. Assist with the
entrance and exits by the public. Open shutter door for delivery of stationery
and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Berry Tel No: (021) 467 2265
POST 25/563 : GENERAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 320
Directorate: Provincial Printing
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (or equivalent). Knowledge: Education Department Service Delivery
Charter (Batho Pele). Skills: Written and verbal communication in at least two
official languages of the province. Ability to operate a strapping machine. Ability
357
to operate a staple gun. Ability to operate a photocopy and fax machine.
Numerical skills relating to scripts and marksheets.
DUTIES : Assist with the transportation and storage of question papers. Transporting
question papers from print room to Head Office. Cleaning of strong room from
all old question papers. Make boxes with staple gun. Assist with packing
question papers in boxes. Strap boxes. Make photocopies of question papers.
Load, offload and store question papers at Head Office. Assist with the
packaging and distribution of question papers, stationery and marksheets.
Assist with counting stock during stocktaking. Sort question papers and
marksheets in subject and centre order. Pack question papers and marksheets
in centre order. Make boxes with staple gun. Strap boxes. Prepare boxes for
despatch. Pack question papers and marksheets in boxes. Assist with
collection of question papers from storage. Pack question papers in sorting
area for scanning. Arrange question papers according to list for scanning. Pack
question papers per session and seal boxes per centre. Paste way bills on
boxes. Assist with weighing of boxes. Assist with transportation of question
papers, stationery and marksheets to examination institutions. Assist with filing
of all documents including question paper checklists and way bills. Assist with
preparation of envelopes per centre per EMDC. Assist with preparation of way
bills and batches per EMDC. Assist with packing of marksheets and relevant
documentation in envelopes per centre per EMDC. Report to supervisors daily.
Assist with removal of identified practical subject marksheets. Assist with
packing practical subject marksheets for distribution to the Curriculum
Advisors. Assist with dispatching of marksheets to relevant Curriculum
Advisors. Assist with the manifesting of mark sheets and scripts. Assist with
counting stock during stocktaking. Assist with the distribution of circulars. Make
boxes with staple gun. Strap boxes. Assist with preparation of work area for
receiving and storing scripts. Assist with receiving manifested consignments of
mark sheets and scripts from couriers or individuals. Open consignments of
scripts. Separate, file and distribute accompanying documents including
seating plans, medical certificates and correspondence. Sort mark sheets and
scripts in various subjects. Pack scripts in boxes. Batch identified subjects for
pre-marking. Assist with processing loose mark sheets. Assist with processing
specialised subjects including CAT and IT. Assist with processing external
subjects including IEB. Assist with processing LSEN scripts including Braille.
Assist with boxing and filing of mark sheets and scripts. Assist with boxing and
filing of queried scripts. File attendance registers and way bills. Prepare boxed
subjects for marking including strapping and labelling. Assist with marking and
capturing processes. Assist with counting stock during stocktaking. Assist with
transport of scripts and equipment to marking centres, venues and home
markers. Prepare scripts for marking by unpacking boxes. Make boxes with
staple gun. Strap boxes. Assist with arranging meal verification system for
marking centres. Assist with preparation of marking venues including question
papers and memoranda. Assist with arrangements for specialised subject
marking. Assist with collection of scripts at marking venues and the return
thereof to the centralised mark checking team. Assist with drawing of sample
scripts for moderation. Assist with receipt, checking and distribution of marker
reports, claims and invigilator claims. Assist with processes for loose scripts,
unmarked scripts and mark checking for specialised subjects. Assist with flow
of checked scripts for mark capturing. Box captured scripts per subject. Assist
with transport of boxed scripts to Head Office and store boxed scripts in subject
order. Assist with marking centre clean-up process including cleaning rooms
and return of equipment. File and store all mark sheets. Assist with drawing
scripts for remarking. Assist with specialised projects and disposal of previous
years answer books. Render general assistance regarding training of Chief
Markers, Markers, Moderators, Mark Capturers, Centre Managers and
Invigilators. Assist with logistical arrangements for training. Assist with printing
and distribution of training manuals. Assist with processing certificates and
attendance registers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Berry Tel No: (021) 467 2265
POST 25/564 : GENERAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 321
Directorate: Provincial Printing
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Maitland
358
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (or equivalent). Knowledge: Education Department Service Delivery
Charter (Batho Pele). Skills: Written and verbal communication in at least two
official languages of the province. Ability to operate a strapping machine. Ability
to operate a staple gun. Ability to operate a photocopy and fax machine.
Numerical skills relating to scripts and marksheets.
DUTIES : Assist with the transportation and storage of question papers. Transporting
question papers from print room to Head Office. Cleaning of strong room from
all old question papers. Make boxes with staple gun. Assist with packing
question papers in boxes. Strap boxes. Make photocopies of question papers.
Load, offload and store question papers at Head Office. Assist with the
packaging and distribution of question papers, stationery and marksheets.
Assist with counting stock during stocktaking. Sort question papers and
marksheets in subject and centre order. Pack question papers and marksheets
in centre order. Make boxes with staple gun. Strap boxes. Prepare boxes for
despatch. Pack question papers and marksheets in boxes. Assist with
collection of question papers from storage. Pack question papers in sorting
area for scanning. Arrange question papers according to list for scanning. Pack
question papers per session and seal boxes per centre. Paste way bills on
boxes. Assist with weighing of boxes. Assist with transportation of question
papers, stationery and marksheets to examination institutions. Assist with filing
of all documents including question paper checklists and way bills. Assist with
preparation of envelopes per centre per EMDC. Assist with preparation of way
bills and batches per EMDC. Assist with packing of marksheets and relevant
documentation in envelopes per centre per EMDC. Report to supervisors daily.
Assist with removal of identified practical subject marksheets. Assist with
packing practical subject marksheets for distribution to the Curriculum
Advisors. Assist with dispatching of marksheets to relevant Curriculum
Advisors. Assist with the manifesting of mark sheets and scripts. Assist with
counting stock during stocktaking. Assist with the distribution of circulars. Make
boxes with staple gun. Strap boxes. Assist with preparation of work area for
receiving and storing scripts. Assist with receiving manifested consignments of
mark sheets and scripts from couriers or individuals. Open consignments of
scripts. Separate, file and distribute accompanying documents including
seating plans, medical certificates and correspondence. Sort mark sheets and
scripts in various subjects. Pack scripts in boxes. Batch identified subjects for
pre-marking. Assist with processing loose mark sheets. Assist with processing
specialised subjects including CAT and IT. Assist with processing external
subjects including IEB. Assist with processing LSEN scripts including Braille.
Assist with boxing and filing of mark sheets and scripts. Assist with boxing and
filing of queried scripts. File attendance registers and way bills. Prepare boxed
subjects for marking including strapping and labelling. Assist with marking and
capturing processes. Assist with counting stock during stocktaking. Assist with
transport of scripts and equipment to marking centres, venues and home
markers. Prepare scripts for marking by unpacking boxes. Make boxes with
staple gun. Strap boxes. Assist with arranging meal verification system for
marking centres. Assist with preparation of marking venues including question
papers and memoranda. Assist with arrangements for specialised subject
marking. Assist with collection of scripts at marking venues and the return
thereof to the centralised mark checking team. Assist with drawing of sample
scripts for moderation. Assist with receipt, checking and distribution of marker
reports, claims and invigilator claims. Assist with processes for loose scripts,
unmarked scripts and mark checking for specialised subjects. Assist with flow
of checked scripts for mark capturing. Box captured scripts per subject. Assist
with transport of boxed scripts to Head Office and store boxed scripts in subject
order. Assist with marking centre clean-up process including cleaning rooms
and return of equipment. File and store all mark sheets. Assist with drawing
scripts for remarking. Assist with specialised projects and disposal of previous
years answer books. Render general assistance regarding training of Chief
Markers, Markers, Moderators, Mark Capturers, Centre Managers and
Invigilators. Assist with logistical arrangements for training. Assist with printing
and distribution of training manuals. Assist with processing certificates and
attendance registers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Berry Tel No: (021) 467 2265
359
POST 25/565 : GENERAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 322
directorate: provincial printing
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Maitland
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 (or equivalent). Knowledge: Education Department Service Delivery
Charter (Batho Pele). Skills: Written and verbal communication in at least two
official languages of the province. Ability to operate a strapping machine. Ability
to operate a staple gun. Ability to operate a photocopy and fax machine.
Numerical skills relating to scripts and marksheets.
DUTIES : Assist with the transportation and storage of question papers. Transporting
question papers from print room to Head Office. Cleaning of strong room from
all old question papers. Make boxes with staple gun. Assist with packing
question papers in boxes. Strap boxes. Make photocopies of question papers.
Load, offload and store question papers at Head Office. Assist with the
packaging and distribution of question papers, stationery and marksheets.
Assist with counting stock during stocktaking. Sort question papers and
marksheets in subject and centre order. Pack question papers and marksheets
in centre order. Make boxes with staple gun. Strap boxes. Prepare boxes for
despatch. Pack question papers and marksheets in boxes. Assist with
collection of question papers from storage. Pack question papers in sorting
area for scanning. Arrange question papers according to list for scanning. Pack
question papers per session and seal boxes per centre. Paste way bills on
boxes. Assist with weighing of boxes. Assist with transportation of question
papers, stationery and marksheets to examination institutions. Assist with filing
of all documents including question paper checklists and way bills. Assist with
preparation of envelopes per centre per EMDC. Assist with preparation of way
bills and batches per EMDC. Assist with packing of marksheets and relevant
documentation in envelopes per centre per EMDC. Report to supervisors daily.
Assist with removal of identified practical subject marksheets. Assist with
packing practical subject marksheets for distribution to the Curriculum
Advisors. Assist with dispatching of marksheets to relevant Curriculum
Advisors. Assist with the manifesting of mark sheets and scripts. Assist with
counting stock during stocktaking. Assist with the distribution of circulars. Make
boxes with staple gun. Strap boxes. Assist with preparation of work area for
receiving and storing scripts. Assist with receiving manifested consignments of
mark sheets and scripts from couriers or individuals. Open consignments of
scripts. Separate, file and distribute accompanying documents including
seating plans, medical certificates and correspondence. Sort mark sheets and
scripts in various subjects. Pack scripts in boxes. Batch identified subjects for
pre-marking. Assist with processing loose mark sheets. Assist with processing
specialised subjects including CAT and IT. Assist with processing external
subjects including IEB. Assist with processing LSEN scripts including Braille.
Assist with boxing and filing of mark sheets and scripts. Assist with boxing and
filing of queried scripts. File attendance registers and way bills. Prepare boxed
subjects for marking including strapping and labelling. Assist with marking and
capturing processes. Assist with counting stock during stocktaking. Assist with
transport of scripts and equipment to marking centres, venues and home
markers. Prepare scripts for marking by unpacking boxes. Make boxes with
staple gun. Strap boxes. Assist with arranging meal verification system for
marking centres. Assist with preparation of marking venues including question
papers and memoranda. Assist with arrangements for specialised subject
marking. Assist with collection of scripts at marking venues and the return
thereof to the centralised mark checking team. Assist with drawing of sample
scripts for moderation. Assist with receipt, checking and distribution of marker
reports, claims and invigilator claims. Assist with processes for loose scripts,
unmarked scripts and mark checking for specialised subjects. Assist with flow
of checked scripts for mark capturing. Box captured scripts per subject. Assist
with transport of boxed scripts to Head Office and store boxed scripts in subject
order. Assist with marking centre clean-up process including cleaning rooms
and return of equipment. File and store all mark sheets. Assist with drawing
scripts for remarking. Assist with specialised projects and disposal of previous
years answer books. Render general assistance regarding training of Chief
Markers, Markers, Moderators, Mark Capturers, Centre Managers and
Invigilators. Assist with logistical arrangements for training. Assist with printing
and distribution of training manuals. Assist with processing certificates and
attendance registers.
360
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Berry Tel No: (021) 467 2265
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”)
CLOSING DATE : 31 July 2026, 17:00PM
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 25/566 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (FAMILY MEDICINE) (MEDICAL
AND MEDICAL ANCILLARY)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Clanwilliam Hospital, Cederberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Family Physician. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Medical Specialist in Family
Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign
health professional council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist, Family Physician. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognized foreign health professional council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist, Family Physician. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid driver’s license (Code B/EB). Willing to render
Commuted Overtime duties at the Hospital. Willingness to work at the PHC
Clinics in the Sub-district. Must be willing to do on-site second call overtime.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work within and lead a multi-
disciplinary team to provide service delivery to clients in a Primary Health Care
setting and on Hospital level. Knowledge of Community Orientated Primary
Care approach and ability to engage all relevant stakeholders in the
Ecosystem. Good communication, interpersonal relationships, exceptional
leadership and conflict resolution skills and the ability to work in a high stress
environment. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, and Outlook
DUTIES : Clinical Governance and clinical guidance to facility managers at the Hospital
and Clinics. Clinical service provision and clinical managerial tasks with
regards to medical and allied health staff. Clinical service provision at Specialist
level in Family Medicine, sub-speacial and Emergencies. Training of students,
community service staff, Medical Officers and Allied Health staff and
appropriate research in Family Medicine. Assist Manager: Medical Services
with HR and financial resource management duties.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C Adams Tel No: (022) 921-2153 /(027) 482-2166
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidate's will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
361
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status).
POST 25/567 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist in Psychiatry, after registration
with the HPCSA (or a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect
of a foreign qualified employee). Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist in Psychiatry, after registration with the
HPCSA (or a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
foreign-qualified employee). Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver's
license and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Clinical
experience in Psychiatry, at a specialist level, with a focus on district level
services. Ability to render high quality clinical care in the in- and out-patient
setting, including good legislative & policy knowledge, medical record keeping,
report writing and computer literate. Ability to balance the outputs of a large
clinical workload with the teaching and supervisory requirements of the
position. Strong administrative, managerial, communication and conflict
resolution skills.
DUTIES : Clinical service delivery at specialist level across the full spectrum of district
level Psychiatry, including wards, outpatients, Emergency Centre and
specialised clinics at both Karl Bremer Hospital and Eerste River Hospital (4
days / 1 day). Administrative & clinical governance including leadership, People
Management processes, OPD management, data analysis, and quality
improvement. Teaching, training and supervision of junior medical staff and
students with participation in the hospital academic program as well as
outreach supervision to primary health care nurse practitioners. Domain
specific ouputs and participation within the Metro East ecosystem, including
participation in and alignment with district-hospital-level services at two district
hospitals in the Metro East ecosystem, and Mental Health Care Review Board
liaison.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S le Roux Tel No: (021) 918-1990
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with their relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 25/568 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING (LEVEL 1 AND 2 HOSPITAL)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R1 069 215 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
362
the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 4 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience at
management level. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to perform standby after hours and over weekends/public
holidays when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
Nursing administration, Nursing Education, Quality Improvement, Infection
Prevention and Control and Occupational Health strategies in health.
Computer literacy in MS Office packages. Excellent verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide strategic management and leadership to the nursing department.
Oversee clinical governance and service delivery of nursing department.
Effective people management of nursing services which include nursing
personnel, HR matters, Staff development and staff support. Manage allocated
budgets which include, Nursing Personnel, Agency, and Overtime, Budget,
Equipment, Vetting and Asset Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L van der Berg Tel No: (021) 940-4402
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 25/569 : REGISTRAR (PSYCHIATRY) (X8 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital, Lentegeur Hospital and Tygerberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner: Independent Practice. Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. It will be expected
of the successful candidate to participate in a system of remunerated
commuted overtime. It will be expected of the successful candidate to perform
emergency and after-hour call cover. Completed FC Psych Part I Colleges of
Medicine South Africa qualification. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate experience in Psychiatry with appropriate supervised medical
officer experience. Excellent clinical assessment and management skills. Good
leadership and interpersonal skills. Knowledge and practical skills in psychiatry.
Communication skills.
DUTIES : Provision of safe and comprehensive psychiatric care to inpatients and
outpatients at Tygerberg Hospital, Stikland Hospital, Lentegeur Hospital and
associated training sites. Provision of clinical support to other medical and
surgical disciplines at Tygerberg Hospital. Performing onsite after-hours duties
as per call roster. Supervision and support of medical interns and medical
officers providing psychiatric care on the service platform. Attending teaching
program activities, tutorials and assessments as part of the registrar training
program at the designated university as required to achieve the FCPsych and
MMed(Psych) qualifications. Assisting with the training of interns, medical
students, nursing staff and multidisciplinary team members.
ENQUIRIES : Prof L Koen Tel No: (021) 940-8718 or email: liezle.koen@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
have to undergo profiling assessments prior to appointment. Consideration will
be given to existing employees who are already on higher salary packages to
retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to
receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum
contract period of 4 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their
pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with the applicable
University in the Western Cape according to the requirements for the discipline
in the yearbook and guidelines. -Should registration with the HEI as a student
be discontinued for any reason the appointment of Registrar also discontinues.
Applicants must indicate whether they have bursary obligations. Preference
will be begiven to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity
document. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. -Such candidates will only be considered for
363
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time
for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for a change in registration status. Each registrar
will be appointed in a specific training complex and will be expected to rotate
through the various institutions in the complex. It may become necessary to
second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their period of
training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any decision
being implemented.
POST 25/570 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY) (X3 POSTS)
(5-Year Contract), (1 January 2027 to 31 December 2031)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirements of the job: Be part of after-hours roster. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of medicine at the level of a medical practitioner
with FCS primary and Intermediate or equivalent. Comprehensive surgical
competencies in primary, secondary and some tertiary trauma orthopaedic
procedures with an appropriate logbook. Commitment and dedication to patient
care. Physical, mental and psychological ability to ensure demands of routine
and emergency care are met. Ability to work as a team and lead effectively
when required. Good communication with staff, colleagues and patients.
Integrity. Strong ethical principles and relevant clinical and counselling skills.
Computer literacy. FCS (SA) Part 1 and FCOrth (SA) Intermediate exam.
Appropriate experience as an Orthopaedic Medical Officer, in a fully functional
Orthopaedic Unit, under direct supervision of at least one full time Orthopaedic
Specialist. ATLS and Basic Surgical Principles. Proven research output on an
orthopaedic topic or research methodology courses.
DUTIES : Provision of clinical service delivery at registrar level for Orthopaedic Surgery.
Pre-operative work-up of patients. Intra-operative management of patients.
Post-operative patient care including ICU. Administrative duties. Accurate and
neat record keeping. Active participation in training and research. Effective
supervision of all personnel and subordinates. Function within departmental
norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Prof J Du Toit Tel No: (021) 938-9266
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stelllenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines.“ Candidates who are not
364
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
POST 25/571 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (OBSTETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY) (X4
POSTS)
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirement of the job: Participation in commuted overtime (after-hours
emergency services) is compulsory. A valid driver’s license is required.
Registrars may be rotated through affiliated departments across various
training sites, including facilities within outreach programmes such as Paarl
and Worcester Regional Hospitals, as well as Khayelitsha, Helderberg, Eerste
River, and Karl Bremer District Hospitals, in line with training programme
requirements. Candidates must be willing to participate in the Termination of
Pregnancy services according to the relevant act. Applicants must have a valid
CMSA (College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists) FCOG part 1.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate post-community service
experience in obstetrics and gynaecology (under onsite supervision of a
registered obstetrician gynaecologist). Clinical experience with adult as well as
neonatal intubation and resuscitation is required. Ability to do a Caesarean
section independently and to work in a professional team. Computer literacy in
MS Word and Excel or similar, including the ability to use online resources
relevant to the discipline. Appropriate supervised experience in Obstetrics and
Gynaecology at a regional, tertiary, or large district hospital in South Africa,
obtained after HPCSA registration as a Medical Practitioner (excluding
community service). Proven surgical experience, including a logbook
demonstrating at least 250 Caesarean sections performed as the primary
operator. Basic obstetric ultrasound certification, or a letter from a specialist
confirming competence in obstetric ultrasound, supported by a logbook of
cases performed.
DUTIES : Deliver a high-quality clinical service to patients and their families. Supervise
junior medical staff to ensure optimal standards of care and clinical outcomes.
Provide ongoing clinical teaching and mentoring of junior staff during routine
service delivery. Participate in both formal and informal teaching of
undergraduate medical students. Successfully complete the CMSA FCOG
Intermediate examination within 18 months of appointment. Pass the CMSA
FCOG Part II examination before completion of the five-year contract. Obtain
an MMed (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) degree before the end of the five-year
training period, including completion of the required research project.
ENQUIRIES : Prof GS Gebhardt Tel No: (021) 938-4638 or email: gsgeb@sun.ac.za or
Nicole.Samuels@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
365
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
POST 25/572 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to assist in the clinics within Saldanha
Sub-District. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make
decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good
communication, interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict
resolution skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, and Outlook.
Knowledge of relevant legislation, policies and protocols of the Department of
Health, Western Cape. Good interpersonal, communication and computer
skills. Knowledge of costs to ensure cost-effective quality service. Sound
knowledge of basic surgical and anaesthetic procedures.
DUTIES : Ensure an effective and appropriate health service for all patients at a District
Level Hospital. Assist the Clinical Manager with effective clinical administration
and including all completion of administrative of forensic tasks (J88 / Rape kits
/ DUI). Provide comprehensive clinical services in the wards, Casualty/OPD,
theatre and clinics. Supervise and assist with the training of under- and
postgraduate medical personnel and continuous updating of own knowledge
and skills. Assist Primary Health Care with Community Orientated Primary
Care (COPC) and partake in compulsory commuted overtime services on a
rotational basis.
ENQUIRIES : Dr TV Zimri Tel No: (022) 709-7208
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
366
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 25/573 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Delft Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA
qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: A Valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel
and perform relief duties when required. A Valid Basic Life Support certificate
and Advance Cardiac Life Support certificate. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Experience in general medical and surgical conditions on
PHC level. Experience of South African TB and HIV care guidelines (including
drug resistant TB and HIV in children). Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word,
Outlook etc.) and good interpersonal, organizational and teamwork skills.
Ability and willingness to do outreach services to clinics throughout the
Northern/Tygerberg Sub-District, guiding health care colleagues in managing
difficult PHC cases.
DUTIES : Practicing cost-effective holistic patient care. Forensic and social service
provision. Effective management and utilization of physical and financial
resources and Clinical governance. Training and development. Effective data
management. Quality of Care and Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C Richards Tel No: (021) 954-2237
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status) Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a written/practical and oral assessment.
367
POST 25/574 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (TRAUMA AND EMERGENCY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful candidate to participate
in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work commuted overtime (compulsory). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to render high quality emergency care for Primary
Tertiary and Secondary trauma adult and paediatric patients. Ability to render
high quality teaching and training in emergency medicine and trauma to junior
(community service) medical officers, interns and medical students. Ability to
communicate effectively. Able to work in an integrated multi-disciplinary team
under pressure in a high-volume high stress environment. Basic computer
literacy, administrative and IT skills. Completion of community service, and
appropriate and sufficient experience in the evidence-based emergency
management of acutely unwell and injured patients. Evidence of completion of
Basic Life Support (BLS) and Advanced Cardiovascular Life Support (ACLS)/
Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS), or DipPEC.
DUTIES : Clinical services: effective and efficient patient management, clear
documentation, evidence-based approach to patient management.
Leadership: teaching undergraduate students, interns and community service
medical officers, team management, floor management. Willingness to
participate in audits, research and quality improvement projects.
Professionalism: administration, work ethic, communication (written and
verbal).
ENQUIRIES : Dr H Lategan, email: hendrickjlategan@sun.ac.za or Dr E Erasmus, email:
elaine.erasmus@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 25/575 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SURGERY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
368
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.) (It will be expected of the successful candidate to participate
in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in General
Surgery. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in General
Surgery. Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted overtime contract is
compulsory, as well as ability to work flexible and after-hours. Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license, as well as willingness and ability to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Expertise in evidence-based surgical practice and patient
safety principles despite the ever-changing healthcare landscape and its
impact on a limited resource environment. Strong clinical decision-making,
leadership and teaching abilities. Commitment to teamwork, ethical practice,
and continuous professional development. Competence in clinical governance,
audit, and quality improvement processes – proof of at least a local publication
strongly encouraged. Effective interpersonal, organizational, and problem-
solving skills. Computer Skills: Proficiency in MS Office and clinical platforms
(ECM, NHLS, HECTIS, PACS). Communication: Excellent writing and verbal
skills with ability to prepare and interpret complex reports.
DUTIES : Deliver comprehensive, high-quality surgical care at George Hospital and
outreach facilities across Eden and Central Karoo. Perform and supervise
surgical procedures within the wide scope of practice inherent to a General
Surgeon working in the public sector. Support teaching and mentoring of
medical officers, registrars, and students. Ensure accurate clinical
documentation, patient referrals, and discharge planning. Participate in clinical
governance, audits, M&M meetings, and patient safety initiatives. Complete
medico-legal documentation accurately and on time. Contribute to responsible
HR and financial management, ensuring prudent use of resources. Promote
patient education, counselling, and community engagement.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Koen Tel No: (044) 802-4535
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
POST 25/576 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHETICS) (6/8TH POST)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 046 646 per annum
Grade 2: R1 194 207 per annum
Grade 3: R1 383 114 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Paarl Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesia. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
in Anaesthesia. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
369
qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in
Anaesthesiology. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid SA driver’s licence.
Participate in the after-hours call system. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Proven leadership abilities and experience in supervision of staff Proven
experience in principles of planning, organizing and implementation Proven
knowledge of Public health policies, guidelines and related prescript to manage
resources effectively. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Financial management by effective and efficient use of resources. Adhere to
requirements for all HR matters. Create a learning environment for junior staff,
and students, both under- and postgraduate as required. Do appropriate
clinical audits and research within the department to stay abreast of clinical
development. Ensure an efficient and cost-effective Anaesthesia service of
high quality with a patient centered focus and addressing the burden of disease
in the Paarl Geographical Service area (GSA). Support to major referral
centers in the Drainage area of Paarl hospital by doing Outreach and support
and improving competencies in the District Health System to manage patients
appropriately and impact on wellness in the Geographic area.
ENQUIRIES : Dr G Davies Tel No: (021) 860-2510 or email:
Gareth.Davies@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. Candidate will be subjected to
a practical/written and oral assessment.
POST 25/577 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHOLOGY SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : Grade 1: R907 617 per annum
Grade 2: R1 055 292 per annum
Grade 3: R1 221 843 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for the
required registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a
Clinical Psychologist. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Clinical Psychologist. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as with the HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified
employees. 1 Year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
A minimum of 8 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 9 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 16
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in
respect of RSA qualified employees. A minimum of 17 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to perform after hour duties, including weekends and Public
Holidays as operational needs so demand. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate experience with mental health care users in both in and outpatient
clinical settings and management of such services. Design and conduct
research, academic teaching, training and supervision of interns and
community service clinical psychologists. The ability to assess, diagnose, and
treat psychological disorders, communicate effectively, work ethically, think
critically, and provide culturally sensitive care.
DUTIES : Assess, diagnose, and treat psychological disorders, communicate effectively,
work ethically, think critically, and provide culturally sensitive care. Deliver and
370
evaluate a comprehensive psychological service to mental health care users
at Lentegeur Hospital. Train and supervise intern clinical psychologists in line
with HPCSA guidelines. Provide consultation to other health professionals.
Provide outreach to strengthening the health system with the catchment area.
-Fully participate in and attend academic activities of the associated
department of psychiatry and mental health (including research, teaching and
social responsiveness activities related to joint appointments).
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Lappeman Tel No: (021) 370-1326
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
POST 25/578 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R882 816 per annum
Grade 2: R954 339 per annum
Grade 3: R1 041 402 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual’s
personal needs).
CENTRE : Grabouw CHC, Theewaterskloof Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
SAPC as a Pharmacist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after registration as a
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 6 years’
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ relevant experience after registration as
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified employees. 14 years’
relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to perform pharmacist duties in the
Theewaterskloof sub-district pharmacies and dispensaries. Valid (Code
B/EB/CI) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
National and Provincial Health Policies and Pharmaceutical Acts and Laws.
Ability to work accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of
professionalism. Ability and willingness to train staff. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Perform relief duties in the substructure to provide quality pharmaceutical care
to patients by monitoring work procedures, ensuring compliance to provincial
code list and ensuring clinical service delivery. Assist with ensuring quality of
care of pharmacy services by doing with audits in areas where medicine is
kept. Assist with medicine management in the sub-structure by ensuring safe
and reliable procurement, storage, control and distribution of quality
pharmaceuticals. Assist with managing pharmaceutical expenditure which
includes monitoring, evaluation and analysis of expenditure trends and
implement strategies to control expenditure within financial prescripts. Assist
with collating and interpreting pharmaceutical data for the sub-structure and
ensure representation of pharmacy services at all relevant meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Mbodla Tel No: (021) 814-3649
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to do a practical/ written and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
371
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals
who must apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 25/579 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: NIGHT DUTY)
SALARY : R785 568 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
basic nursing qualification in one of the R212 qualifications, with a duration of
at least1 year, accredited with the SANC. Or a 4 year Bachelor Degree in
Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post graduate diploma in one of the qualifications(R635) accredited
with the SANC. The following R635 qualifications are excluded, i.e Post
Graduate Diploma in Health Service Management and a Post Graduate
Diploma in Nursing Education. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of
10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 6 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in the
relevant specialty. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): In-depth knowledge and understanding of nursing
legislation, related legal and ethical practices and guidelines, relevant public
sector legislation, People Management and Finance policies and procedures.
Excellent problem solving, conflict resolution and leadership skills. Ability to
work independently and under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide innovative leadership, management and guidance in the provision of
Services on Night Duty. Coordinate the provision of person-centered care by
setting standards, as well as involvement in policy and guideline development.
Monitor the standard of nursing care, as well as guidance and participation in
improvement projects with regards to quality of care. Effective management of
human and financial resources on Night Duty. Coordinate the provision of
effective training and research to ensure professional growth and adhere to
ethical standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L De Palo Tel No: (021) 404-2105
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 25/580 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: (AREA)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Hospital Complex, Brooklyn Chest Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. OR - A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. OR - A 3 year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) AS A General Nurse. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 8 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence. Willingness to work overtime
and standby duties. Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good interpersonal and leadership skills. The ability to function independently
372
in a multi-disciplinary team and the ability to direct the team to ensure good
nursing care. Ability to manage own work and that of the units reporting to the
post. Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of nursing and public service
legislation. Knowledge of human resource and financial policies. Computer
literacy (MS Office).
DUTIES : Management of service delivery in the specialized TB Hospital (Brooklyn Chest
Hospital). Resource Management of the nursing department. Control and
monitor resources and consumables. Ensure a well-managed and capacitated
work force by determining staff development needs and co-ordinate staff
development in collaboration with Human Resource component. Improved
Quality of Care. Support the Deputy Manager: Nursing as Top Management,
with strategic and operational management functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G. Mashaba Tel No: (021) 508-7406
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 25/581 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: INTENSIVE CARE
UNIT) (RECOVERY ROOM/PACU)
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: General. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174)
or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Critical
Care Nursing (Adult). Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/ recognisable experience in Nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience in the specific
speciality after obtaining the 1 year post-basic qualification or a post graduate
diploma in the relevant speciality. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability and
willingness to assist with shifts and after-hours hospital cover including
weekends, public holidays, night duty relief and overtime as the need arises.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic computer literacy. Ability to function
independently as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Effective
communication, interpersonal, leadership, decision-making and conflict
resolution skills. Good organisational skills and the ability to function under
pressure. Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation and policy related to
this nursing speciality within the public sector. Ability to promote quality patient
care through the setting, implementation and monitoring of standards.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for planning, managing, co-ordinating and
maintaining an optimal, specialized Nursing service as an Operational
Manager. Effective management and utilization of Human and Financial
Resources to ensure optimal operational function in the area. Initiate and
participate in training, development and research within the nursing
department. Deliver a support service to the nursing service and the institution.
To maintain ethical standards and promote professional growth and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase Tel No: (021) 938-4000
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/ competency assessment.
POST 25/582 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
Overberg District
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Napier Clinic, Cape Agulhas Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and
373
Care, accredited with the SANC (R48) OR A 4 year bachelor’s degree in
nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus
R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the
SANC in Primary Health Care Nursing. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: A
minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
5 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience after obtaining the one-year post basic qualification or post-
graduate diploma in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid code 8/EB driver’s licence. Willingness to work overtime when necessary.
It will be expected of the candidate to perform clinical functions within the
Primary Health Care setting and do relieve work at the other clinics in the sub
district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS
Word and Excel). Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of nursing and public
service legislation. Knowledge of Human Resource and Financial policies.
Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part of a multi-
disciplinary team. Good communication, interpersonal relationships,
exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for the management and coordination of PHC services and
delivery of person-centered quality nursing care in accordance with the scope
of practice and nursing standards at the Primary Health Care Plan to practice
a holistic health service on a short-/medium-/long term basis including the
provision of effective mobile Primary Health Care services attached to the fixed
facility. Manage Personnel matters including supervision and performance
management, the utilization and supervision of staff, finances and procuring as
well as implementing of policies, prescripts and protocols regarding the
mentioned facets. Manage Health Programmes (CBS, COPC, Comprehensive
Health, HAST, School Health) and Quality assurance program of the facility.
Manage control and act in facet of Health, Support, Data collection and timeous
submission of accurate PHC, CBS and HAST data, including Security,
Cleaning, Infection control and Ground services reports monthly. Organize a
cost-effective service on a daily basis and participate in community
involvement including attending community engagements as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Apollis Tel No: (028) 424-1167
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
POST 25/583 : CANDIDATE ARCHITECT
Directorate: Infrastructure Programme Delivery
(2-Year Contract)
SALARY : R687 036 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (9 Lower Burg Street, Cape Town CDB)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: B Degree in Architecture or relevant
qualification. Registration with a professional council: Registered as a
Candidate Architect with the South African Council for Architectural Profession
(SACAP). Experience: No experience required. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel within the Western
Cape and carry out site inspections, and if necessary overnight. Access to
internet data at home and adequate working space and environment (should
hybrid working continue), (otherwise office space is available full time).
Expectation to use this opportunity to complete candidate requirements toward
qualifying to write the South African Council for the Architectural Profession
(SACAP) Professional registration exam. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Office, MS Excel, MS SharePoint and MS Teams).
Experience in designing, contract management and monitoring the
construction of building services for healthcare facilities or similar buildings.
Experience in the preparation of reports, submissions and presentations in
English. Sound interpersonal and good verbal and written communication
skills. Familiarisation with relevant Built Environment and government
legislation, including but not limited to: Construction Industry Development
Board Act of 2000 and Regulations. Public Financial Management Act /Division
of Revenue Act. Construction Procurement System. Promotion of Access to
Information Act of 2000. Promotion of Administrative Justice Act of 2000.
374
Expanded Public Works Programme. Architectural Profession Act of 2000.
National Building Standards Act of 1977 and Regulations. Government
Immovable Asset Management Act of 2007. Occupational Health and Safety
Act and Regulations of 1993. National Environmental Management Act of
1998. Various types and forms of construction contracts. Particularly the New
Engineering Contract (NEC). Construction Procurement Standard as Issued by
Contractor Industry Development Board (CIDB).
DUTIES : Infrastructure Programme and Project Planning in line with Infrastructure
Delivery Management System (IDMS). Infrastructure Programme and Project
Implementation and Monitoring. Infrastructure Project Commissioning.
Infrastructure Programme and Project Evaluation. Research/literature studies
to keep up with new technologies, viability and feasibility of the geographical
information management options for the Department including interaction with
relevant professional development boards/councils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Graham, email: Gavin.Graham@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 25/584 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (COMPREHENSIVE
HEALTH SERVICES: FBS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R571 161 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR A 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. (This dispensation is only applicable for posts of Clinical Programme
Coordinator where it is an inherent requirement of the post, incumbent to
maintain registration with the SANC). Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of
7 years appropriate or recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirement
of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence, willing to travel, willingness to
work overtime when required. Ability to work independently. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the departmental programs and policies.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, power Point and Outlook). Good
communication, facilitating, and interpersonal skills. Ability to work
independently and in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Plan, coordinate and support the implementation of the 1st 1000 days which
include the Start Well strategy, Vertical Transmission Prevention (VTP),
adolescent health, school health, Communicable Diseases and all relevant
campaigns, women’s, and men’s health services. Stakeholder Engagement
and COPC Implementation: Strengthen internal and external stakeholder
collaboration and ensure effective implementation of integrated health
services. -Involvement in skills development and training to support integrated
health service eg. IMCI, PACK Child. Strengthen and coordinate internal and
external interface management with stakeholders, including NGO`S to
enhance implementation of the COPC principles. Establish health services
linkages on all service platforms at District level.
ENQUIRIES : Ms RC Balie Tel No: (023) 348-8122.
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 25/585 : PARAMEDIC GRADE 3 TO 4 (EMS CRITICAL CARE TEAM) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Service
SALARY : Grade 3: R506 496 per annum
Grade 4: R593 079 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 3: Successful completion of the
Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programme or a Recognized National Diploma
that allows registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B Tech Degree that
allows registration with the HPCSA as Emergency Care Practitioner. Grade 4:
Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programme or a
Recognized National Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as
375
Paramedic or B Tech Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as
Emergency Care Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Grade
3: Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma
or ECP. Grade 4: Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or
National Diploma or ECP. Experience: Grade 3: Registered Paramedic (CCA)
- 14 years after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered
Paramedic (NDip) - 7 years after registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic.
Registered ECP– None -Grade 4: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 24 years after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 17
years after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered ECP’s -10
years after registration with the HPCSA as an ECP. Inherent requirement of the
job: Appropriate experience in operational frontline work, with Critical Care Inter
hospital transfer experience. Valid code C1 driver’s license. Valid professional
driver’s permit (PrDP). Physical and mental fitness. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge of all levels of emergency care
protocols within the scope of registration category. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Computer literacy and skills. ACLS and PALS certifications
required. Previous Critical Care retrieval required.
DUTIES : To perform advanced medical interventions, manage complex medical
emergencies, and provide interfacility transport for critically ill or injured
patients. Provide quality and efficient roadside to bedside definitive emergency
care within defined emergency time frames within and across geographic and
clinical service platforms. Make use of all communication tools as provided by
the Employer to facilitate safe communication in relation to patient care
protocols. Effectively maintaining Admin Function: Maintained accurate patient
records using electronic patient care report (EPCR) and comply with all CCT
regulatory unit standards. -Patient Care Excellence - Maintain consistently
high-quality patient care standards across the entire service by delivering
continuous, effective, and holistic pre-hospital emergency care to the Western
Cape public. Clinical Leadership & Development - Participate in 50% CCT
CME sessions. Participate in 50% of CCT clinical practical sessions.
Participate in 50% of CCT Clinical discussion and review/ M&M sessions.
Uphold your CCT Portfolio of Evidence (POE). Pass CCT Annual written exam
(1x remedial). Pass CCT Annual practical exam (1x remedial). -Strategic
Implementation - Promote patient-centred practices across the full spectrum of
EMS within WCGHW. Collaborated with various stakeholders within the health
ecosystem to deliver effective evidence-based patient care. Provide strong
clinical leadership throughout the organisation to drive continuous
improvement. Performance Management. Monitor service delivery against
established emergency timeframes and quality benchmarks. Evaluate and
enhance clinical practices through systematic oversight and feedback
mechanisms. Drive organisational excellence through strategic leadership and
clinical governance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Klein Tel No: (021) 508-4523- or email:
Bradley.klein@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 25/586 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 OR 2 (SPECIALTY: MATERNITY)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing
Science (R212). OR A 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited Midwifery. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council as Professional
Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
376
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatology
Nursing Science, after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-
graduate diploma in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours, night duty and weekend
cover for nursing. Deputizing for the Operational Manager: Obstetrics.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of relevant legislation and
policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel, Power point and Outlook). Implement skills to plan and organize
the service by problem solving and decision making. Leadership towards the
realization of strategic goals and objectives in the Obstetrics Department.
Ability to function independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to
ensure good patient care. Ability to communicate effectively (both written and
verbal).
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing needs, the
planning & implementation of nursing care plans and the education of nursing
personnel as Professional Nurse in the Obstetric department Utilize human,
material and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Render and
supervise specialized clinical nursing care and support staff with surgical and
medical procedures. Maintain &promote professional growth/ethical standards
and development of self and others. Display of core values of the Department
of Health & Wellness in the WCH. In the execution of duties, while practicing
within the legislation, regulations and protocols applicable to public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Manus Tel No: (021) 833-9201
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualification will
be appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the
necessary qualification within the predetermined period of time. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at
least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal
Nursing Science (R212) OR A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited
Midwifery.
POST 25/587 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212) OR A 4-year Bachelor degree in nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Psychiatric Nursing science after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification
in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, day and night duty, weekends, and public holidays to meet the
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good verbal and
written communication skills. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of
the Department of Health Western Cape. Skills to plan, organise & coordinate
377
the service by analysing, problem solving & decision making. Leadership
towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of the Psychiatric
Department.
DUTIES : Use expert knowledge and skills to ensure quality appropriate patient care are
met and delivered by the nursing and clinical team including identification and
prevention of risks. Participate in quality improvement implementation by
providing effective direction, supervision and education of nursing personnel
as a Professional Nurse in a Psychiatric unit, according to audits and
appropriate data. Support the unit manager/Operational manager (OPM) in the
co-ordination, organising and control over the activities, personnel, equipment,
and stores in the unit to utilize human, material and physical resources
efficiently and effectively. Maintain professionalism and the display of core
values of the Department of Health WCG in the execution of duties, while
practising within the legislation, regulations and protocols applicable to the
public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede Tel No: (044) 802-4352
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subject to a practical test. “Candidates who are not in possession of
the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted with their job
application/on appointment. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)”
POST 25/588 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein/Mitchells Plain Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212). OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience in Psychiatry after obtaining the 1-year
post-basic qualification as mentioned above or a post graduate diploma (R635)
accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Inherent requirement of
the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to assist at other clinics
within the Sub-structure when there is a need. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills. Computer
literate (Microsoft Office). Knowledge of and insight into relevant legislation and
policies related to mental illness.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized client care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide specialist mental health advice
and supervision for colleagues managing CMD patients at community settings.
Effective management of human resources and assist with supervisory
functions. Participate in training, research, mortality and morbidity meetings
and clinical governance meetings. Administration tasks related to clinical work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Patel-Abrahams Tel No: (021)370-5000
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
378
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
POST 25/589 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MENTAL HEALTH)
(X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate; Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R 495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R 607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Southern Western Sub-structure (X2 Posts)
Kensington CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212). OR A 4-year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Psychiatry after obtaining the one-year
post-basic qualification or post graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. To perform
relief duties within the Southern Western Sub-Structure. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills. Computer
literate (Microsoft Office). Knowledge of and insight into relevant legislation and
policies related to mental illness.
DUTIES : Actively participate in the clinical management and nursing care to patients
with Mental Health problems within the Sub-district. Provide support and
capacity development to PHC personnel for Sub-district level services and
students and peers. Promote community development and participation in
mental health care delivery. Liaise with other role players. Conduct research
related to mental health and service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Dr L Fillis Tel No: (021) 202-0933 or Ms M Dubru Tel No: (021) 202- 0833
(SWSS), Ms M De Louw Tel No: (021) 593-1150 (Kensington CDC)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical/written and oral assessment.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be
appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the
necessary qualifications within a predetermined period of time. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification post graduate diploma the relevant specialty.
POST 25/590 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3: REPRODUCTIVE BIOLOGY
(RMU)
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Technologist in Reproductive Biology. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist in
379
Reproductive Biology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA in Clinical Technology in respect of RSA qualified employees. One-
year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical
Technology in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum
of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration with HPCSA in Clinical
Technology in respect of SA qualified employees. Minimum of 11 years’
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical
Technology in respect of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 21 years’
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Clinical Technology in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service as required in South Africa. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy. Data management. Evidence of
administrative and management systems. Academic development of self and
others. Appropriate clinical experience in assisted reproductive techniques.
Knowledge and appropriate clinical experience in Clinical Reproductive
Biology.
DUTIES : Clinical service provision in the Andrology and Embryology laboratories.
Academic teaching, training and supervision of junior colleagues and other
staff. Participation in academic activities within the laboratory. Administration
and audit of clinical data and laboratory services in the Reproductive Medicine
Unit. Laboratory management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Vienings Tel No: (021) 404-6026 or email. marlize.vienings@uct.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 25/591 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as an Occupational Therapist. One-year relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience
after registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as an Occupational Therapist. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an
Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform community service, as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A Minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist. A
minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform community service, as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Good physical ability to lift and transfer
disabled patients for all levels of wheelchair seating. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to cover in- and out-patient OT physical services and work
under extreme pressure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
applicable health legislation, relevant Acts and Public Service Policies and
Procedures, including WCDoHW Ecosystem Framework. Relevant skills in
380
assessing, developing and implementing OT interventions in an acute,
specialist/tertiary hospital setting; and prioritising patient treatment/discharge
plans. Ability in assessing, prescribing and issuing Mobility Assistive and
Functional Devices, intermediate and advanced seating training would be
advantageous. Good interpersonal, communication (written and verbal),
conflict resolution, problem solving, leadership and organizational skills. Good
computer literacy skills (MS Office: Excel, Word, Power point and Outlook).
Ability to function within a multi-disciplinary team setting, to be flexible and to
work independently.
DUTIES : Assess and treat patients with varying and multiple medical conditions using
appropriate OT techniques and approaches, including family/carer training and
education. Be responsible for personal, departmental and administration
related to patient care. Management of assets and consumables in allocated
work area/s. Participate in the clinical supervision of undergraduate OT
students.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Pillay Tel No: (021) 404-4390
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates,
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 25/592 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Radiographer
in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession
(where applicable) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
A minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography in respect of SA qualified
employees. A Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Radiographer in Diagnostic
Radiography in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession
(where applicable) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Render a 24-hour service as determined by the
department. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of protocols,
radiation protection, quality assurance and equipment safety. Good
interpersonal skills and perform effectively as part of a multidisciplinary team.
Knowledge of Patient Archiving and Communication Systems and Radiology
Information Systems. Computed Tomography experience will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Produce radiographs of optimum quality with good patient care. Assist with
administrative duties in radiology. Support of supervisor and teambuilding.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
Participate in continuing professional development activities. Safe use and
care of equipment. Assist with training of community service Radiographers
and students. Participate in a after hour service of the department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Samuels Tel No: (021) 377-4799
381
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 25/593 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein/Mitchells Plain Sub-Structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate with Mathematics or
Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
experience/competencies that focuses on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s)
of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Support service, Supply
chain management, reporting, transport management, reprographic service,
cleaning service and Contract Management. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy and thorough knowledge of computer systems (LOGIS and
MS Office). Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, Departmental delegations, AO
System and financial reporting. Knowledge of GMT prescripts and policies,
OHSA and contract management.
DUTIES : Ensure effective management of all maintenance activities for the Sub-
structure office and facilities. Ensure the effective and efficient management of
all contractual agreements. Responsible for effective supervision of GG fleet
vehicles and maintenance within Sub district. Responsible for the effective
delivery of support services, including switchboard operations, reprographic
services, and cleaning services. Effective and efficient management of Human
Resources, General Management, and administrative support within the
component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mc Quire Tel No: (021) 370-5071
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to practical assessment.
POST 25/594 : INDUSTRIAL TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION (ANAESTHETICS AND
RESPIRATORY UNIT)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: B-Tech or National Diploma or equivalent
(T- or N- or S- Stream) in Experience: Appropriate practical experience with the
repair and maintenance of anaesthetic and respiratory life support equipment
(preferred) or proven experience in medical equipment maintenance.
Mechanical/ Mechatronic Engineering. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
driver’s license (Code B) and own reliable transport in order to handle call-out
duty. Willing to work overtime. Willing to work within any Clinical Engineering
discipline should it be necessary. Do standby duties and handle after hour calls.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of medical equipment
maintenance is essential. Ability to read circuit diagrams, fault-find and repair
electronic medical equipment. Practical experience with the repair and
maintenance of anaesthetic and respiratory life support medical equipment or
have an interest in the maintenance of mentioned equipment. Good written and
verbal communication skills. Ability to manage, plan and organize maintenance
schedules. Good inter-personal relations. Possess accurate technical ability
and insight in order to solve problems. Computer literacy. Understand the
functions of Clinical engineering. Active interest in life support equipment in a
hospital environment.
DUTIES : Carry out maintenance, repairs, calibrations, routine inspections and
evaluation of anaesthetic and respiratory life support equipment and all
equipment maintained by the Clinical Engineering Department and allocated
to the workshop. General administrative duties as required by Clinical
Engineering i.e. Write reports, specifications and record keeping of equipment
382
and departmental activities. Liaise with hospital staff and private sector
employees. Train various staff and hospital personnel. Ensure compliance with
the Occupational Health and Safety Act. Adhere to all legal requirements,
protocols and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Rossouw Tel No: (021) 938-4634
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment on day of interview.
POST 25/595 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (X3
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg District Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse or 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a General Nurse.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours, night duty and
weekends cover for nursing. Must be willing to rotate within the facility.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Nursing Care processes and
procedures Nursing Act. Problem solving, decision-making, good interpersonal
skills. Report writing skills. Health promotion and team building.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(Clinical practice/quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria,
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Sr T Khumalo Tel No: (021) 850-4796
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 25/596 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: NURSING RELIEF)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR A 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade
1: None after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
383
Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience
in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience
in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty,
overtime, public holidays, weekends and rotate within the wards of the hospital.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability
to function independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good
patient care. Excellent communication skills (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provision of quality basic nursing patient centered care in a hospital setting.
Provision of optimal, holistic clinical and elementary nursing care with set
standards and within a professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of
human and financial resources, Information management and support
services. Improving quality of health services. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms RZ De Silva Tel No: (021) 808-6153
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”
POST 25/597 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (X6
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchell's Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Or a 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 or R171) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse or
General Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, and public
holidays should the need arises. Ability to work under pressure and in a multi -
disciplinary team context. Willingness to rotate to other departments due to
operational requirements excluding maternity. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel). Ability to work
independently and in a multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of Community
Oriented Primary care. Conflict management, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Ability to facilitate training.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care in a hospital setting. Maintain ethical practice
within legal and regulatory frameworks. Maintain a constructive working
relationship with all relevant stakeholders. Utilize human, material and physical
resources efficiently and effectively. Participate in training programmes and
research activities. Maintain workplace disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Geswindt Tel No: (021) 377-4410
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
384
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 25/598 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
West Coast District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focus on the key
performance areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience of Asset
Management and Warehousing within the public or private environment.
Working experience in Procurement (Electronic Procurement System).
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to rotate within Supply Chain
environment. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, Outlook (e-mail). Knowledge of the
AOS, PFMA, Finance Instructions, Provincial Treasury Instructions and
National Treasury Regulations. Knowledge and experience of LOGIS
(Logistical Information System).
DUTIES : Responsible for demand and acquisition management functions. Perform
duties related to Electronic Procurement System processes and compliance.
Prepare bidding templates and relevant documentation to present at Quotation
Evaluation Committee. Perform various tasks related to procurement
processes and compliance. Effective maintenance of assets and systems of
the asset register. Regular follow-up on outstanding orders. Perform and assist
with Interim and Annual Financial statement reporting and financial year end
tasks. Ensure compliance to all relevant laws and prescripts related to the
Supply Chain Asset and Warehouse Management duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Leander Tel No: (022) 487-9249
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test
POST 25/599 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(WAREHOUSE)
West Coast District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland PHC, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focus on the key
performance areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply
Chain Management, focusing on Procurement and warehousing on a
computerised system. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid B/EB driver’s
licence. Physically fit and able to lift heavy items. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and or practical experience of the LOGIS
System, Warehouse and Asset Management functions and functional
experience in obtaining quotations on an electronic purchasing system (IPS).
Computer literacy (MS Excel and Word). Good communication skills (written
and verbal). Ability to work in a physically demanding environment.
DUTIES : Perform all Warehouse Management duties. Capture various documentation
on the Supply Chain Systems (LOGIS) and filing of source documents.
Conduct stock-taking and ad-hoc inspections. Complete and submit monthly
Inventory Reporting. Ensure compliance to all relevant laws and prescripts
related to Supply Chain Management. Handle telephonic and written queries
from suppliers and End Users. Assist colleagues in Supply Chain Management
component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Leander Tel No: (022) 487-9249
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical test.
POST 25/600 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (NURSING)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
385
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Secretarial Administrative Support in a
Nursing component. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel). Ability to function as a team player, with or without supervision.
Ability to function under stressful environment and cope with a heavy workload.
Proven ability to produce and organize formal documents, spreadsheets as
well as manage e-mails. e mail responses and electronic calendar. Appropriate
planning and administration skills, time management and good telephone
etiquette.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to Nursing Management. Provide effective
communication via telephone and by interacting with Nursing Management and
staff. Handle all incoming and outgoing correspondence. Ensure efficient
record keeping of all nursing information and gather nursing statistics. Assist
staff from clinical areas with enquiries. Co-ordinate training and development
logistics by preparing training venues and ensure that all equipment and tools
are readily available.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Brenton Tel No: (021) 370-2314
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 25/601 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HRD (PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in a Human Resources,
Employee Relations, Human Resource Development, Employee Health and
Wellness, or office administration environment. Inherent requirements of the
job: Ability to maintain strict confidentiality when dealing with sensitive
employee information. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good knowledge of
general office administration and records management practices. Sound
computer literacy, with proficiency in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook
and PowerPoint). Good verbal and written communication skills. Knowledge of
the Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act and relevant departmental
policies will be an advantage. Ability to work independently and as part of a
multidisciplinary team. Good interpersonal skills with a strong customer service
orientation. Ability to maintain confidentiality and exercise discretion when
dealing with employee information. Ability to work under pressure, prioritise
competing tasks and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the Employee Relations function, including
scheduling meetings, maintaining confidential records, preparing
documentation and taking minutes. Coordinate administrative activities relating
to Human Resource Development, including training administration, induction,
maintaining training records and compiling reports. Provide administrative
support for Employee Health and Wellness programmes, including
coordinating wellness activities, maintaining attendance registers, statistics
and confidential records. Maintain manual and electronic filing systems,
registers, databases and tracking tools. Prepare routine correspondence,
reports, procurement requests and meeting arrangements. Provide reception,
telephonic and administrative support to the People Management component.
Provide administrative relief support within the broader People Management
component when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Cajada Tel No: (044) 802-4358 or e-mail:
Ricardo.Cajada@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical.
POST 25/602 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (REHABILITATION)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate administrative or clerical experience in a
multidisciplinary allied health department setting. Appropriate experience in
386
using health information systems. Inherent requirements of the job: Physically
able to perform frontline support functions within the rehabilitation department.
Availability to work flexible hours if necessary. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, Outlook).
Knowledge of appointment scheduling and maintaining diaries. Knowledge of
maintaining filing systems for respective allied health departments. Good
verbal and written communication skills to facilitate communication between
multidisciplinary team members. Knowledge of supply chain processes.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health
Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide effective frontline service to patients, members of public, and
stakeholders within the rehabilitation department. Effectively manage
appointment diaries for the respective departments in the rehabilitation
department, including scheduling of appointments. Ensure that patient records
are managed confidentially and in accordance with health information
regulations. Maintain an efficient filing system for the respective departments
within the rehabilitation department. Ensure sufficient administrative and
consumable supplies for respective departments to ensure efficient service
delivery. Report malfunctioning therapeutic and office equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms EV Goliath Tel No: (044) 802-4389
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical test.
POST 25/603 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in general office administration and
management. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer proficiency in MS Word,
Excel and MS Office. Ability to think analytically and logically and ability to work
under pressure. Good interpersonal relations, communication and
organizational skills. Good human relations.
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient general office administration support to the
Deputy Director: Professional Support Service (PPS), Programme managers
and Facility on-site support as required. Handling of the diary of the Deputy
Director: Professional Support Services in the Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-
Structure. Co-ordinate and organise meetings, agendas, visits, minute taking
and compile and typing of quarterly reports. Maintain filing system and
coordinating training. Overall logistical Support to the PSS and Procurement of
consumables. Support to the Quality Assurance and Information Management
programmes. Good financial record keeping. Monitor and follow up on
complaints for Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Manesen Tel No: (021) 360-4636
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 25/604 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (THEATRE) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or
equivalent. Experience: Appropriate Administrative Experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines.
Excellent typing skills, minute taking and Computer literacy in MS Office Suite
(Work, Excel, Power point, Access, Teams) and Zoom. Good planning,
organizational and interpersonal skills. Soft skills in a health care setting –
Discretion and Confidentiality, Emotional Intelligence, adaptability in a fast-
paced environment.
DUTIES : Ensure an effective and efficient office administration and management within
the Nursing Management office. Deliver an effective and efficient office
administration, reception services and support to the Nurse Manager and
affiliated managers and support services. Manage and maintain an effective
and efficient Nursing data filing, record keeping services, which includes
provision of accurate / effective typing and data capturing of human resource
387
documentation, nursing agency timesheets, attendance of agency bookings
and incident reports. Co-ordinate and assist with preparation and processes of
interviews and meetings and new nursing staff appointments in the
department. Provide administrative support to Nursing personnel, assist with
queries and ensure effective and efficient communication.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Watson Tel No: (021) 404-5161
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a compulsory practical test.
POST 25/605 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSETS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics, Maths Literacy and/or Accounting as passed subject and/or
Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses
on the Key Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate
experience in LOGIS and the Electronic Procurement System. Appropriate
experience in Supply Chain Management. Appropriate experience in Asset
Management, Disposal management & Stocktaking. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Applied knowledge of the Accounting Officer System, SCM
delegation, PFMA, PTI and NTR. Applied knowledge of Western Cape Supplier
Database & Centralized Supplier Database. Ability to handle a high work
volume and meet strict deadlines. Ability to function independently, as well as
part of a multi-disciplinary team. Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel,
Outlook). Knowledge of LOGIS procurement system.
DUTIES : Acquisition, Receive and issue assets and to end-users. Advertising of
quotations according to the Procurement Plan. Preparing of orders and follow-
ups. Management of Assets: Disposal process, movements, asset verification
and compliance. Sub-system controller – assist System controller with all
LOGIS system related tasks & enquiries. Handle queries in all aspects within
the Supply Chain Management Department and provide effective support
service to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms XM Sonandi Tel No: (044) 802-4432
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required is required when applying for this post.
Shortlisted candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
POST 25/606 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ ADMIN (REVENUE) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with appropriate experience that focuses on the Key Performance
Area's (KRA's) of post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Revenue
Department. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work under pressure
with set deadlines. Excellent interpersonal skills. Ability to execute duties
accurately and thoroughly. Must be able to work independently or in a team
and under supervision. Knowledge of how to operate computer hardware.
Excellent written and verbal communication skills. Computer literacy (Word,
Excel) in terms of collating, interpreting and inserting data into a spreadsheet.
DUTIES : Handling of patient account enquiries. Perform all duties associated with the
follow up and collection of outstanding accounts. Ensure correctness of patient
invoices. Clearing of Inter-responsibility Account and Medscheme accounts.
Billing of patient accounts and allocate payments. Handling of state monies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LI Kitshini Tel No: (021) 938-4387
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 25/607 : FORENSIC PATHOLOGY OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 2
Chief Directorate: Emergency And Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 1: R225 777 per annum
Grade 2: R262 953 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Laboratory, Mossel Bay
388
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate with having achieved
Mathematics, Life Science and/ or Biology as passed subjects. Experience:
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: 10 year's appropriate experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver's license. Ability to interpret
and apply policies. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work with and lift
corpses, (mutilated, decomposed, infectious viruses, obese). Be willing on
travelling long distances and working standby duties/overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate clearly and discreetly in person and
writing. Ability to be trained in 4x4 Vehicle handling. Ability to be trained in
photography. Willingness to assist with duties in X-ray room. Willingness to be
trained in Forensic Investigation and Dissection. Willingness to be trained in
Forensic Pathology Business Processes. Ability to achieve and maintain good
interpersonal and working relations with staff and clients. Computer and
software literacy in MS Word and Excel. Will be required to deliver testimony
in court proceedings.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient recovery, storage and processing of deceased. An
effective identification process and release of the deceased, including
management of property. Optimal control of reports and statements during and
after the Forensic Mortuary process. An efficient support service to the
Manager with regard to Corporate and Clinical Governance functions of the
Forensic Pathology Laboratory. An effective Forensic autopsy process and
specimen management rendered in accordance with set standards and
guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L Smith Tel No: (044) 813-1890 or email:
Lester.Smith@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The candidates
will be subjected to an interview and competency test. Candidates will be
subjected to a security clearance prior to appointment.
POST 25/608 : FORENSIC PATHOLOGY OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 2
Chief Directorate: Emergency And Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 1: R225 777 per annum
Grade 2: R262 953 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Laboratory, Vredenburg
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate with having achieved
Mathematics, Life Science and/ or Biology as passed subjects. Experience:
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: 10 year's appropriate experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver's license. Ability to interpret
and apply polices. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work with and lift
corpses, (mutilated, decomposed, infectious viruses, obese). Be willing on
travelling long distances and working standby duties/overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate clearly and discreetly in person and
in writing. Ability to be trained in 4X4 Vehicle handling. Ability to be trained in
photography. Willingness to assist with duties in an X-ray room. Willingness to
be trained in Forensic Investigation and Dissection. Willingness to be trained
in Forensic Business Processes. Ability to achieve and maintain good
interpersonal and working relations with staff and clients. Computer and
software literacy in at least MS Word and Excel. Will be required to deliver
testimony in court proceedings.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient recovery, storage and processing of deceased. An
effective identification process and release of the deceased, including
management of property. An effective Forensic autopsy process and specimen
management rendered in accordance with set standards and guidelines.
Optimal control of reports and statements during and after forensic mortuary
process. An efficient support service to the Manager with regard to Corporate
and Clinical Governance functions of the Forensic Pathology Laboratory.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Julies, email: Lyndon.Julies@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The candidate
will be subjected to an interview and competency test. Candidates will be
subjected to a security clearance prior to appointment.
POST 25/609 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R181 230 per annum
Grade 2: R211 401 per annum
389
Grade 3: R249 141 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours, night duty and
weekend. Willingness to rotate to other wards in the hospital and to assist at
the clinics in the Sub-district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good communication skills (written and verbal) Self- discipline and motivation.
DUTIES : Provide quality basic nursing care. Provide elementary clinical nursing care.
Assist patients with activities of daily living which include patient hygiene,
nutritional status, mobility and elimination needs. -Effective utilization of
physical and financial resources Maintain professional growth, ethical
standards and self-development. Record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Mahlangu Tel No: (044) 604 - 6104
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. -This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 25/610 : STERILIZATION OPERATOR PRODUCTION
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Robertson Hospital, Langeberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: GETC/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience:
Appropriate experience in Central Sterile Services Department (CSSD) within
a hospital environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
overtime when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
decontamination, cleaning and packing and sterilization of surgical
instruments. Understanding of infection prevention and control principles.
Ability to cooperate sterilization equipment (e.g. Autoclaves, washer
disinfectors). Good communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to work
independently and under pressure. Commitment to Batho Ple Principles.
DUTIES : Decontaminate, clean, inspect, assemble, pack and sterilize surgical
instruments and equipment. Operate and monitor sterilization equipment
according to prescribed procedures. Ensure correct labelling, storage,
distribution of sterile items and maintain accurate documentation and
sterilization records. Receiving and sorting of Linen and Distribution and Stock
control. Linnen control and processing clean linen and quality Control and
Storage and Ensure cleanliness CCSD environment. Comply with
Occupational Health and Safety and Infection and prevention and Safety
policies in CSSD. Adhering to Documentation and Communication protocols in
CSSD.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Kortje Tel No: (023) 626-8503
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 25/611 : DRIVER (HEAVY DUTY VEHICLE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience as a Driver, after licence obtained. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid code 10 driver’s licence. Valid Public Driving
Permit (PDP). Ability to do physical work, etc. load heavy objects, daily.
Willingness to work overtime and perform standby duties as operationally
required. Willingness to work weekends and public holidays as operationally
390
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Transport Circular
no 4 of 2000 and U2 33-2009. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility
and to work independently.
DUTIES : Ensure accurate and detailed completion of logbooks & all vehicles are kept
clean and tidy. Conduct routine maintenance, inspecting vehicles and timely
reporting of defects. Transport official passengers, patients, and equipment.
Collect, deliver, post and parcels daily in a hospital capacity. Perform
administrative and relief duties when required or necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N De Wet Tel No: (021) 940-4415
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 25/612 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRIC RHEUMATOLOGY) (3
SESSIONS)
(3-Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R671 per hour
Grade 3: R766 per hour
Grade 3: R887 per hour
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Paediatrics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in Paediatrics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Paediatrics. Inherent requirements of the
job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Experience in Paediatric Rheumatology. Good communication skills (written
and verbal). Ability to function independently at a level of medical specialist in
paediatrics. Demonstrated interest in Paediatric research. Working with multi-
disciplinary teams.
DUTIES : To render a clinical in and outpatient service in Paediatric Rheumatology as the
service requires, including clinical teaching and research. Administration and
management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr D Abraham Tel No: (021) 938-9616
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Medical Specialist in Paediatrics with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 25/613 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (SESSIONS: 8 HOURS PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
(3-Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R501 per hour
Grade 2: R572 per hour
Grade 3: R662 per hour
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Medical Practitioner.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner in respect of South African qualified employees. One-year relevant
experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
391
Grade 2: A minimum of five years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of South African qualified employees. A minimum of six years relevant
experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of ten years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of South African qualified employees. A minimum of eleven years
relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Applicants must have
a valid APLS/PALS/NLS certificate. Provision of clinical outpatient and in-
patient paediatric and HIV services at New Somerset Hospital. Provision of
neonatal outreach and support to MOU’s ARV services for children and adults,
and paediatric ward and ambulatory care. Ability to be on call and availability
for Emergency situations. Willing and able to work shifts when required. Willing
and able to participate in after-hours duties when required. Willing and able to
work with patients with infectious diseases. A valid (code B/EB) driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Post-internship experience in general
paediatrics and neonatology under on-site supervision of a registered
paediatrician. Completion of / exemption from South African Community
Service. Ability to achieve and maintain good interpersonal relations with staff,
patients and their families. Must be competent in provision of paediatric and
neonatal resuscitation. Must be capable of providing comprehensive paediatric
and neonatal emergency care in ambulatory and in-patient settings. Provision
of high-standard paediatric and neonatal in-patient, out-patient and outreach
services. Must be independent yet capable of teamwork, planning,
organisation and coordination. Must have excellent clinical note keeping,
writing of referral letters and complex medical reports. Excellent interpersonal,
communication, analytical, problem-solving, time management and
administrative skills. Display empathy for patients, promote advocacy, and
facilitate a biopsychosocial management framework. Appropriate experience
managing patients living with HIV.
DUTIES : Provide high-quality clinical service to patients and their families, adhering to
evidence-based management protocols. Clinical leadership in the workplace.
Administration of patient statistics collection, ECCR patient management
system and other WCG health applications. Effective and efficient
administration of clinical services. Supervision of junior medical staff to ensure
high quality of care and good clinical outcomes. Working and communicating
well with nursing staff, allied professionals and all students rotating at the
facility. Clinically based formal and informal teaching and training of junior staff
and undergraduate medical students.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Chippendale Tel No: (021) 402 6431 or email: sa-
eeda.chippendale@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status).
392