PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 17 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 22 MAY 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the
advertisements of vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the
Department is not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an
advertisement must be addressed to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the
department in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST
PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration
must not be approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the
applicable closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies.
Potential candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies
and attending where applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998
should be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote
representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding
the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY: Kindly note that the
sentence below on the requirements on the post of The Director-General with
Ref No: DEE2026/008, which was advertised in the Public Service Vacancy
Circular 16 dated 15 May 2026 has been removed.” “In the public service with
a proven track record of successfully leading and managing at senior
management level.” The new closing date is 05 June 2026. We apologise for
the inconvenience.
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE: Kindly note that
posts of Assistant Director: Assets Management with Ref No: Q9/2026/28,
advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 16 dated 15 May 2026 with a
closing date of 29 May 2026, please note that the closing date has been
extended to 05 June 2026. Apologies for any inconvenience caused.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 04 - 07
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR B 08 - 18
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT C 19 - 20
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM D 21 - 30
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING E 31 - 35
HOME AFFAIRS F 36 - 41
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT G 42 - 45
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY H 46 - 67
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE I 68 - 76
OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION J 77 - 78
PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION K 79 - 81
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE L 82 - 84
TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION M 85 - 92
TREASURY N 93 - 94
WATER AND SANITATION O 95 - 98
WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES P 99 - 100
THE PRESIDENCY Q 101 - 111
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE R 112 - 133
GAUTENG S 134 - 137
KWAZULU NATAL T 138 - 152
LIMPOPO U 153 - 183
MPUMALANGA V 184 - 195
WESTERN CAPE W 195 - 244
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. NB:
Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will
be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case
shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your application before the
closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate
applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for
each post. Due to high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt
of applications. Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/01 : PARLIAMENTARY AND CABINET SUPPORT REF NO: 3/3/1/33/2026
Office of the Minister
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package to be
structured in accordance with the rules for MMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a National
Diploma in Public Administration / Political Science / Business Administration
(NQF level 6). Minimum of 3 years experiences in relevant working
environment. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of ministerial operations.
Knowledge of the political and parliamentary processes in South Africa. Broad
knowledge and understanding of the functional areas covered by the Executive
Authority’s portfolio. Job related skills: Computer literacy, Communication skills
4
(verbal and written), Report writing skills, Negotiating skills and Interpersonal
skills. A valid driver’s licence. Ability to work within a team.
DUTIES : Monitor events in Parliament to identify matters that have bearing on the
Executive Authority. Peruse document like minutes of committees and cluster
committees and monitor meetings of legislative structures to identify matters
that have a bearing on the Executive Authority. Liaise with structures like
portfolio and standing committee on matters that have a bearing on the
Executive Authority and brief Departments on decisions taken. Monitor events
in cabinet to identify matters that have a bearing on the Executive Authority.
Peruse documents like minutes of Cabinet and Cluster Committees and
monitor meetings of the executive structures to identify matters that have a
bearing on the Executive Authority. Liaise with structures, by attending
meetings, like Cluster and Cabinet Committees. Render an efficient and
effective Parliamentary services. Facilitate timeous and appropriate responses
to parliamentary questions in the format prescribed by Parliament / the
legislature and ensure departmental representation in parliamentary events.
Compile cabinet memoranda, speeches, submissions, briefing notes and other
documents as required. Gazette and table draft bills emanating from the
portfolio of the executive authority. Provide advice and support in terms of
policy and procedure to the Department in respect of key parliamentary events,
like the tabling of the budget vote of the Executive Authority. Co-ordinate and
control movements between the Pretoria and Cape Town Offices for
parliamentary sessions. Manage and oversee the packing, dispatching and
unpacking of official documents and equipment in Pretoria and Cape Town.
Manage the movement of households to and from Cape Town. Study the
relevant Public Service and departmental prescripts / policies and other
documents to ensure that the application thereof is understood properly.
Remain up to date with regard to the applicable prescripts / policies and
procedures that apply to his / her work terrain. Remain abreast with the
procedures and processes applicable to the Executive Authority.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Kgomotso Kgang Tel No: (012) 319 7194
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
PCSrecruit33@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Persons with disability.
POST 17/02 : FARM FOREMAN REF NO: 3/3/1/34/2026
Directorate: Grootfontein Agricultural Development Institute (GADI)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: Middelburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12 certificate or equivalent.
Minimum of 2 years experience in management of agronomics and horticultural
crops trials. Job Related Knowledge: Farming practices. Farm equipment.
Safety standards. Management of stores. Job Related Skills: Organizing.
Planning. Team building. Problem solving. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Organise, supervise, and assist with the execution of activities in respect of
crop production: Field identification. Soil cultivation and preparation. Sowing
and planting of all trials. Irrigation of trials. Manual and mechanical week
control. Harvesting of produce. Organise, supervise and assist with the general
maintenance activities of grounds and infrastructure: Maintenance of fences.
Maintenance of hail shelter. Maintenance of roads. Maintenance of building,
stores, greenhouses and cold rooms. Maintenance of irrigation system.
Organise, supervise, and assist with the execution of general routine activities:
Firefighting and prevention. Cleaning of facilities. Disposal of farm waste
material. Care for equipment e.g. cleaning, oiling, sharpening etc. Cleaning and
washing of vehicles. Loading/off-loading. Perform all administrative and related
functions: Ensure proper recording and filing of relevant farm records / farm
inventory (farm equipment) i.e. farm inventory status report. Loss/damage
reports completed and submitted to relevant office. Register of all losses of
assets and tools used for farm work updated. Ensuring proper recording and
submission/filling of relevant HR records such as: Leave records, Performance
Agreements, Personnel attendance register and Exit interviews etc.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Thabo Molekwa Tel No: (049) 802 6633
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
FFrecruit34@nda.gov.za
5
NOTE : EE Target: Africans, White Males and Persons with disability.
POST 17/03 : SECRETARY REF NO: 3/3/1/35/2026
Directorate: Plant Health
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate (NQF 4). No
experience required. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of the relevant
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedure. Telephone etiquette. Basic
knowledge of financial administration. Job related skills: Sound organizational
skills. Computer literacy (MS Office). Good interpersonal relations. High level
of reliability. Written commination skills. Language skills. Ability to communicate
well with people at different levels and from different backgrounds. Ability to do
research and analyze documents situations. Ability to act with tact and
discretion. Good grooming and presentation. Self-management and
motivation. Ability to work long extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial / receptionist support service to the Director. Receive
telephone calls and refer the calls to the correct role players if not meant for
the relevant senior manager. Record appointments and events on the diary.
Type documents for the senior manager and other staff within the unit. Operate
office equipment e.g. Fax machine and photocopiers. Provide clerical support
services to the senior manager. Liaise with travel agencies to make travel
arrangements. Check the arrangements when relevant documents are
received. Arrange meetings and events for senior manager and employees in
the unit. Identify venues, invite role players, organise refreshments, set up
schedules for meetings and events. Process the travel and subsistence claims
for the unit. Process all invoices that emanate from the activities of the work of
the senior manager. Record basic minutes of the meetings of the senior
manager where required. Draft routine correspondence and reports. Do filing
of documents for the senior manager and the unit where necessary. Administer
matters such as leave registers and telephone accounts. Receive, record and
distribute all incoming and outgoing documents. Handle the procurement of
standards items such as stationary, refreshments etc. Collect all relevant
documents to enable the Director to prepare for meetings. Remain up to date
with regard to prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to the work
environment to ensure efficient and effective support to the senior manager.
Study the relevant Public Service and the departmental prescripts / policies
and other documents to ensure that the application thereof is understood
properly. Remain abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the
office of the senior manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Jan Hendrik Venter Tel No: (012) 319 6384
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
Srecruit35@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Persons with disability.
POST 17/04 : TRACTOR DRIVER REF NO: 3/3/1/36/2026
Directorate: Grootfontein Agricultural Development Institute (GADI)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: Middelburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate).
Minimum of 1 year of experience. Job related knowledge: Establishment of
pastures, planting and cultivation of crops. Basic calculations for mixing and
application rates of herbicides and pesticides. Calibration of planters and crop
sprayers. Functioning, maintenance and repair of farm equipment and
infrastructure. Job related skills: Operating a tractor, Operating specialised
machinery such as TLB, Bulldozer etc, Using of different implements, Planting
and harvesting of crops. Road Maintenance. A valid driver’s license (Code C1)
DUTIES : Operate a tractor with various implements (such as ploughs, Rippers, Planters,
crop sprayers etc) attached to assist with the physical execution of various
general farming activities, through inter alia: Land cultivation, Planting, Tillage,
Harvesting, Transportation of various goods, Fire fighting, fencing activities,
Mowing of lawn etc. Perform road and firebreak maintenance works and
construction related functions by using appropriate machinery. Operate a
specialised machinery (such as harvesters, drilling equipment, excavators,
6
sewer jetting machine etc.) Perform vehicle maintenance and administrative
support activities including inter alia the following: Ensure the safe storage,
cleaning and routine maintenance of vehicle. Ensure the safety storage,
cleaning and routine maintenance of implements. Maintain a farm vehicle
month and kilometre logbook and report accordingly. Ensure the timely
reporting of defects to mechanical workshop in order to prevent further
damage. Assist with dispensing and receiving fuel and oils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Thabo Molekwa Tel No: (049) 802 6633 or Dr Loraine Van Den Berg Tel No:
(049) 802 6740
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
TDrecruit36@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: Africans and Persons with disability.
POST 17/05 : CLEANER REF NO: 3/3/1/37/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Grootfontein Agricultural Development Institute (GADI)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: Middelburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of ABET qualification. No previous
experience required. Job Related Knowledge: None. Job Related Skills: None.
DUTIES : Provide Cleaning services: cleaning offices corridors, elevators and
boardrooms by dusting and waxing office furniture. Sweeping, scrubbing and
waxing of floors. Vacuuming and shampooing floors. Cleaning walls, windows
and doors. Emptying and cleaning of dirt bins, Collect and removing of waste
papers. Freshen the office areas. Clean general kitchens by cleaning of basins.
Wash and keep stick of kitchen utensils. Cleaning the restrooms by refilling
hand wash liquid soap. Replace toilet papers, hand towels and refreshers.
Empty and wash waste bins. Keep and Maintain cleaning materials and
equipment: Report broken cleaning machines and equipment. Cleaning of
machines (vacuum cleaners etc.) and equipment after. Request cleaning
materials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Thabo Molekwa Tel No: (049) 802 6633
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
Crecruit37@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Male, Coloured Male, Indians, Whites and Persons with
disability.
7
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 08 June 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one attachment. Zipped, IMG and JPEG
documents will not be accepted. indicate the correct job title and the reference
number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email
address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
requirements for application of Senior Management Services (SMS) include
the successful completion of an SMS Pre-entry programme (Nyukela) as
endorsed by the National School Government (NSG). Prior to appointment, a
candidate should therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-
Entry Certificate and have completed the course. The cost for Nyukela is at the
applicant’s own expense. The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/. For all SMS appointment, the selection panel will
recommend suitable candidate (s) to attend generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act(POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
8
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
ERRATUM: Kindly take note that the advertised post of Assistant Director:
Collective Bargaining for Head Office Pretoria with reference number
HR4/26/02/01HO is withdrawn. The post was advertised on circular 5 of 2026
on 13 February 2026 with closing date of 27 February 2026. For applicants
who previously applied for the post must re-apply when the post is advertised
with reviewed requirements.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/06 : DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: HR4/4/4/05/01
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Parktown
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NOF level 7 as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAOA) in Human Resource Management/ Human Resource
Development/Public Administration/ Public Management/ Financial
Management/ Supply Chain Management/ Labour Relations/ Business
Management/ Management (majoring in Public Management/Administration).
Valid driver’s license. Five (5) years’ experience at Middle/ Senior Managerial
level with experience in Human Resource Management; Employment
Relations; Supply Chain Management; Financial Management environment.
Knowledge: Public Service transformation and management issues, White
Paper on transformation of Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Departmental policies and procedures, Batho Pele principles, Access
Recognition and Licensing Committee, Human Resource Development,
Compensation for Occupational Injuries on Diseases Act, Occupational Health
and Safety Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions Of Employment Act,
Public Financial Management Act, Employment Equity Act, Skills Development
Act, Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment Insurance Contributions
Act. Skills: Planning and Organizing, Interpersonal, Computer Literacy,
Communication, Problem Solving, Listening and Observation, Strategic
management, Negotiation, Analysis, People Management, Presentation.
DUTIES : Oversee the management of human resources including capacity development
and performance management in the province. Monitor the development and
maintenance of the Province’s Organisational Structure and establishment.
Oversee Financial and Supply Chain Management within the province.
Manage the provision or communication services within the province. Manage
the provision of Auxiliary Services and Fleet management obligations in the
province. Manage staff and all other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TJ Mokomatsidi Tel No: (011) 853 0300
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: P O Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001 or
hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown. For online applications email: jobs-
GP-PO/1@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE target-priority will be given to African female, Coloured male, Coloured
Female, Indian male, Indian female, White male, White female
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/07 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INVESTMENTS: REF NO: HR4/4/3/3/2DDI/UIF (X7
POSTS)
(3- Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification in Investment Management/ Finance/ Accounting/
Economics/ an investment-related field of study at NQF Level 7 as recognized
by SAQA. Five (5) years working experience, of which three (3) years must be
functional operational experience in an investment environment and two (2)
years at an Assistant Director/Junior Management level in an investment
environment. Knowledge: PFMA, NT Regulations, Treasury Instructions, UIF
Act, UICA. Financial Markets Act, FSRA. IPS and investment governance
frameworks. Investment markets, instruments, and portfolio management.
GRAP (GRAP 1,16, 20, 24, 36, 37, 38, 104, etc.). IFRS, GAAP. ESG principles,
PRI, GIPS (advantageous). Risk-management frameworks and
methodologies. Public-sector governance and reporting frameworks. Skills:
9
Investment analysis and financial modelling. Portfolio management and
oversight. Valuation of listed and unlisted instruments. Risk management and
scenario analysis. Financial reporting and GRAP compliance. SLA and contract
management. Data analysis and investment systems proficiency. Governance
writing and policy formulation. Strategic capability and leadership. People
management and empowerment. Programme and project management.
Financial management. Change management. Problem-solving and decision-
making. Stakeholder management.
DUTIES : Manage investment portfolio services and ensure alignment with investment-
related prescripts, legislation, and policies. Manage investment accounting,
valuation, and disclosure in accordance with GRAP standards. Monitor
investment risk management, linking actuarial risk appetite, tolerance, duration
to investment portfolio limits, exposures, and duration. Ensure governance,
compliance, and reporting, to internal and external oversight structures and
stakeholders. Manage financial, human, and physical resources of the Sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ASC Fourie Tel No: (012) 337 1520
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF25@labour.gov.za
POST 17/08 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TREASURY REF NO: HR4/4/3/3/2DDT/UIF (X2
POSTS)
(3- Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification in Financial Accounting, Finance, Economics at
NQF Level 7 as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years working experience of
which three (3) years must be functional experience in the cash flow liquidity
management or treasury environments and two (2) years of experience at an
Assistant Director/ Junior Management level. Knowledge: National Treasury
Regulations (TR 15- 19). Treasury Instructions. Bank Act. Payment System
Management Act. Financial Intelligence Centre Act (FICA). Prudential Authority
directives and guidance notes. GRAP 1,2 and 24. Cash- flow management
framework. Public- sector governance and reporting frameworks. Skills:
Treasury Operations and cash- flow forecasting Liquidity- risk management.
Banking- platform governance and user- access control. Financial analysis and
reconciliation. Risk management and internal control. SLA and contract
management. Governance writing and policy formulation. Data analysis and
treasury systems proficiency. Financial management. Policy capability and
leadership. People management and empowerment. Programme and project
management. Financial management. Change management. Problem- solving
and decision- making. Stakeholder management.
DUTIES : Manage treasury operations, banking arrangements, and cash- management
functions in line with PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Manage cash-
flow liquidity forecasting, liquidity- risk management, and short-term investment
of funds for cash flow liquidity purposes. Ensure accounting and compliance
with PFMA, National Treasury Regulations, FIC Act, Banks Act, Public Service
Act, UIF policies, and GRAP standards. Manage resources. Manage treasury
governance, internal controls, and reporting to oversight structures. Manage
financial, human and physical resources of the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ASC Fourie Tel No: (012) 337 1520
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF26@labour.gov.za
POST 17/09 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACTUARIAL SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/3/3/2DDAS/UIF
(3- Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Actuarial Science at NQF Level 7 as
recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years of working experience, of which three (3)
years must be functional operational experience in an actuarial environment
and two (2) years’ experience at an Assistant Director / Junior Management
level within an actuarial environment. Knowledge: Public Service Act. Public
Service Regulations. National Treasury Regulations. Public Investment
Corporation Act (PICA). Generally Recognised Accounting Practices (GRAP).
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Oversight frameworks:
10
AGSA audit cycle, SCOPA requirements, governance committee mandates.
Labour- market indicators influencing UIF claims, contributions, solvency and
sustainability National Treasury Instruction Notes relevant to actuarial
procurement. Skills: Strategic Competencies. Core Managerial Competencies.
Process Competencies. Technical Competencies.
DUTIES : Conduct Actuarial Valuations, Advanced Modelling and Statutory Reporting.
Oversee, manage and assure Data extracts, Assumptions and Methodology
Assurance. Maintain Governance, Compliance and ensure Audit Readiness.
Coordinate external Actuarial Advisor Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms ASC Fourie Tel No: (012) 337 1520
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF27@labour.gov.za
POST 17/10 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: UI OPERATIONS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape Ref No: HR4/4/10/650 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Cape Town Ref No:HR4/4/10/651 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification in Operations Management/ Public Management
or Administration/ Business Administration or Management/ Administration
Management/ Management/ Financial Accounting/ Finance at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s license. Four years’ experience of which
two (2) years must be functional experience in Operations environment and
two (2) years must be supervisory experience. Knowledge: Unemployment
Insurance Act (UIA), Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA),
Treasury Regulations, Public Service Regulation (PSR), Basic Conditions of
Employment (BCEA), Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Skills: Computer, Report Writing, People
Management, Time Management, Communication (both verbal and written),
Customer Relations, Supervisory Skills and Couching skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the employer services function in the province. Coordinate the
provision of assessment, validation and adjudication of claims. Facilitate
registry services in the province. Coordinate local appeals and complaints in
the province. Coordinate General support. Manage resources in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town. Email: Jobs-WC4@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloured Males and White Males
POST 17/11 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR: EMPLOYER AUDIT REF NO: HR4/4/10/653
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant tertiary qualification in Labour Relations Management/
BCOM Law/ LLB/ Internal Audit. Two (2) years supervisory experience. Two (2)
years functional experience in Auditing/ Financial Management. Knowledge:
Departmental policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service
Act and Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations, COIDA, UIA, PFMA, BCEA,
SDLA, LRA UI Contributions Act, Skills Development Act and Employment
Equity Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organizing, Computer literacy,
Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Interviewing, listening and observation,
Communication Written and Verbal, Innovative, Analytical, Research and
Project management.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation of UIA and COIDA strategy programs. Implement
the systems that provide expert advice on sector specific UIA and COIDA
matters. Control the process that monitor and evaluate impact of UIA and
COIDA programs. Monitor the implementation of Advocacy Campaigns on
COIDA regularly and when there are amendments. Manage the resources
within the Inspectorate and Enforcement Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town. Email: Jobs-WC3@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloured Males and White Males
11
POST 17/12 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICE (IES) REF
NO: HR4/4/10/652
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant tertiary qualification in Labour Relations/ Human
Resources Management/ Public/Business Management/ Administration. Two
(2) years supervisory experience. Two (2) years functional experience in
Inspection/ Administration Services. Knowledge: Departmental policies and
procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Public Service Regulations, SDLA, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, COIDA, Unemployment Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act and
Employment Equity Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organizing,
Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Interviewing, listening and
observation, Innovative, Analytical, Verbal and written communication.
DUTIES : Conduct inspection with the aim of ensuring compliance with the labour
legislation. Carry out investigation on cases reported regarding contravention
of labour legislation and enforce where it is evident there is contravention.
Conduct proactive inspection regularly to monitor compliance with labour
legislation. Draft inspection plans, reports and compile statistics on the cases
allocated., Manage the resources in the sub-section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town. Email: Jobs-WC3@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloured Males and White Males
POST 17/13 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: UIF OPERATIONS (6X POSTS)
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied must re-apply
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: George Ref No:HR4/4/10/654 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Worcester Ref No:HR4/4/10/655 (X4 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management/ Public
Management or Administration/ Business Administration or Management/
Financial Accounting/ Finance at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Two (2) years
functional experience in Client Services environment /Claims Processing
environment or Insurance environment. Knowledge: Unemployment Insurance
Act and Regulations (UIA), Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act
(UICA), Department of Employment and Labour & UIF Polices and Procedure,
Operation System, Batho Pele Principles, Protection of Personnel Information
Act (POPI), Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations.
Skills: Interpersonal, Presentation, Listening, Communication (verbal and
written), Computer literacy, Problem Solving, Planning and Organizing,
Dedicated, Team Player, Innovative, Supportive, Self-Motivated.
DUTIES : Provide Unemployment Insurance services through interaction with customers.
Provide quality assurance and follow-up on Unemployment Insurance
applications. Administer the UI Claims and Processing Services. Supervise
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Charles Tel No: (044) 801 1223 (George)
Mr M Murray at 072 029 8930 (Worcester)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town.
Email: WCJobs-GRG@LABOUR.gov.za (George)
Email: WCJobs-WS@LABOUR.gov.za (Worcester)
NOTE : Priority will be given to White Males
POST 17/14 : BCEA INSPECTOR REF NO: HR4/4/10/656
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre Somerset West
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification in Labour Relations/BCOM LAW/LLB. Valid
motor vehicles driving licence. Two (2) years functional experience in
inspection and enforcement services. Knowledge: Departmental policies and
procedures. Labour Relations Act. Compensation of Injuries and Diseases Act.
Occupational Health and Safety Act. UI Contribution. Employment Equity Act.
12
Immigration Act. Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and Organizing, Leadership,
Computer literacy, Interpersonal skills, Problem solving skills, interviewing
skills, Presentation skills, Written and Verbal communication skills, Innovative,
Analytical.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA).
Sectoral Determinations and the National Minimum Wage Act. Plan and
execute investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of BCEA, SD and NMWA & Regulations and enforce as and
when necessary. Plan and conduct structured advocacy on BCEA, SD and
NMWA independently and analyse impact thereof, consolidate and compile
report. Contribute at higher level to planning, drafting and maintenance of
regional inspection plans execution.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town. Email: WCJobs-SW@LABOUR.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to White Males
POST 17/15 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCE REF NO: HR4/4/8/161
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Northern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years tertiary or equivalent qualification in Finance/Accounting. Two
(2) years functional experience in Financial Management Services.
Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations,
Financial prescript and manuals, Batho Pele Principles, Departmental Policies
and Procedure, Conflict. Skills: Planning and organising, Computer Literacy,
Communication, Problem solving, Supervisory, Accounting, Presentation,
Analysis.
DUTIES : Authorise all financial transactions for the whole Province on financial
transversal system (e.g. BAS LOGIS, PERSAL AND Safety-net). (Daily). Verify
information to ensure proper financial documents management. Monitor
budget process for the province. Proper control of Petty case. Clear suspense
account and unallocated accounts before month closure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sherelda Kleinsmith Tel No: (053) 838 1517
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301 or
hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road. Email: Jobs-
NCKIM@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to Coloured Male, Indian male and females,
White males.
POST 17/16 : OHS INSPECTOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre Kimberly Ref No: HR4/4/8/164(X1 Post)
Labour Centre Kuruman Ref No: HR4/4/8/165(X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3)-year tertiary qualification (NQF6) in Environmental Health,
Mechanical Engineering, Mechatronic Engineering, Electrical Engineering,
Chemical Engineering, Chemistry, Construction, Biology, Microbiology,
Biomedical Sciences, Biotechnology, Biochemistry. A valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, as amended, OHS Regulations, South African National Standards
(Codes)-incorporated Codes become regulations, Compensation for
Occupational injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployed Insurance Act. Skills:
Planning and organizing, Communication, Computer Literacy, Facilitation
skills, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem
solving skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical
skills, Verbal and written communication skill.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. Plan, investigate and finalise
independently incidents and complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and
other relevant regulations and enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court
as a State witness. Plan and conduct allocated proactive inspections as per
schedule to monitor compliance with the OHS and other relevant labour
legislation including compiling and consolidating reports emanating from such
13
inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy campaigns on all labour legislation
independently, analyse impact thereof, consolidate and compile report.
Contribute at a higher level to planning, drafting and maintenance of regional
inspection plans and reports including, execution of analysis and compilation
of consolidated statistical reports on regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Kleinsmith Tel No: (053) 838 1707
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberly, 8301 or
hand deliver at Laboria House, c/o Pniel & Compound Street, Kimberley
Email: Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za (Kimberly Labour Centre)
Email: Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za (Kuruman Labour Centre)
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to Coloured Male, Indian male and females,
White males.
POST 17/17 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES REF
NO: HR4/4/10/657
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in Public/ Human resource Management/
Public Management/ Administration. One-year functional experience in support
services. Knowledge: Departmental Policies, Procedures and Guidelines.
Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, Treasury Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act and Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Interpersonal,
Telephone etiquette, Interviewing skills, Computer literacy, listening skills,
Communication skills, Ability to interpret legislation, Problem solving skills,
Basic mediation skills, Analytical skills, Report writing skills and Tactical skills.
DUTIES : Render Supply Chain Management Function in a Labour Centre. Provide
Finance, office services including fleet management within a Labour Centre.
Render a Human Resource Management service at a labour Centre (Daily).
Responsible for training and performance management in a Labour centre.
Provide general administrative duties to the Labour Centre. Responsible for
staff supervision and development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town. Email: WCJobs-
CTN@LABOUR.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to White Males
POST 17/18 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: WORK-SEEKER REGISTRATION REF NO:
HR4/4/10/676
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A Three-year tertiary qualification in Administration/ Public Administration. One-
year functional experience in work-seeker registration. Knowledge: ILO
Conventions. Financial Management. Human Resource Management.
Knowledge Management and Skills Development. Skills: Planning and
organizing, communication, computer, analytical, presentation, interpersonal,
report writing, leadership and networking.
DUTIES : Ensure provision of support to Labour Centres for the delivery of work-seeker
registration service. Dissemination of information to Labour Centres on
registration of work-seekers on ESSA. Ensure provision of administrative
support for capacity building on ESSA end users. Consolidate reports for ESSA
user master database.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town. Email: Jobs-WC2@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to White Males
POST 17/19 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: IES REF NO: HR/4/4/10/658
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Beaufort West
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Knowledge: All relevant Labour
Legislations and Regulations, Related ILO conventions, Public Service
14
Regulations, Public Service Act, Knowledge of the Departmental Policies,
Procedures and Guidelines, Batho Pele principles. Skills: Interpersonal,
Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Computer literacy, Communication, Ability to
interpret legislation, Problem solving.
DUTIES : Render services at help desk as the first point of entry within the Registration
Services. Resolve all complaints on IES labour legislations received from
Clients within the scope and dictates of the IES SOP. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town. Email: WCJobs-
BEA@LABOUR.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to White Males
POST 17/20 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (PES) (X9
POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Beaufort West- Ref No: HR4/4/10/659 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Bellville- Ref No: HR4/4/10/660 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Cape Town- Ref No: HR4/4/10/661 (X3 Posts)
Labour Centre: George- Ref No: HR4/4/10/662 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Mitchells Plain- Ref No: HR4/4/10/663 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Oudtshoorn- Ref No: HR4/4/10/664 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Departmental Policies,
Procedures and Guidelines, Labour Legislation and Regulations, Employment
Services Act, Public Service Act and Regulations, Batho Pele principles. Skills:
Computer Literacy, Communication, Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Listening,
Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Ability to interpret legislation.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work-seekers on ESSA. Render registration
services of work and learning opportunities on ESSA. Refer work seekers for
Employment Counselling services. Provide administrative support with the 17
placement of work seekers in work and learning opportunities. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town
Email Beaufort West: WCJobs-BEA@LABOUR.gov.za
Email Bellville: WCJobs-BELL@LABOUR.gov.za
Email Cape Town: WCJobs-CTN@LABOUR.gov.za
Email George: WCJobs-GRG@LABOUR.gov.za
Email Mitchells Plain: WCJobs-MP@LABOUR.gov.za
Email Oudtshoorn: WCJobs-OUD@LABOUR.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to White Males
POST 17/21 : BCEA INSPECTOR (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: George Ref No: HR4/4/10/665 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Paarl Ref No: HR4/4/10/666 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Postmasburg Ref No: HR 4/4/8/163 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification in Labour Relations/BCOM Law/LLB. A
Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Department policies and procedures, Skills
Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act,
Employment Equity Act. Skills: Facilitation Skills, Planning and Organizing
(own work), Computing (spread sheets, PowerPoint and word processing),
Interpersonal skills, Problem solving skills, Interviewing skills, Analytical skills,
Communication Skills (Verbal and Written).
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
15
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119 (George & Paarl)
Ms Sherelda Kleinsmith Tel No: (053) 838 1517 (Postmasburg)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or
hand deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town.
Email George: WCJobs-GRG@LABOUR.gov.za
Email Paarl: WCJobs-PRL@LABOUR.gov.za
Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X5012, Kimberley, 8301
or hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road. Email: Jobs-
NCPOS@labour.gov.za (Postmasburg Labour Centre)
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to Coloured Male, Indian male and females,
White males (Postmasburg). Priority will be given to White Males (George &
Paarl)
POST 17/22 : UI CLAIMS OFFICER (X19 POSTS)
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied must re-apply
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Bellville Ref No:HR4/4/10/667 (X9 Posts)
Labour Centre: George Ref No:HR4/4/10/668 (X10 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. 0 to 6 months’ experience. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act,
Public Service Regulation, Public Service Act, Batho Pele Principles,
Departmental Policies and Procedures, Customer Care. Skills: Communication
(verbal and written), Listening, Ref No: HR4/4/relevant systems in line with the
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Register all employers and verify the
declaration of employees as per the relevant prescripts. Execute the payment
of approved claims as per the set time frames. Attend to enquiries relating to
all processed claims or any other matter relating to the processing of claims.
Perform administrative duties in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Carstens Tel No: (021) 941 7002 (Bellville)
Mr M Charles Tel No: (044) 801 1223 (George)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 872, Cape Town, 8000 or hand
deliver at: Department of Employment and Labour, No.9 Long Street, Cnr
Riebeeck and Long Street, Cape Town.
Email: Bellville, WCJobs-BELL@LABOUR.gov.za
Email: George, WCJobs-GRG@LABOUR.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to White Males
POST 17/23 : PERSONNEL OFFICER HRM REF NO: HR4/4/10/669
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior certificate plus Certificate in Human Resource
Management Field. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures.HR
related systems (PERSAL). Batho Pele Principles. Employment Equity Act.
Public Service Regulations. Skills: Computer literacy. Analytical.
Communication. Planning and organizing. Computer Literacy. Analytical.
Communication. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Facilitate and provide administrative support for service benefit of employees.
Provide support to the recruitment and selection processes. Capture and
update all personal data on PERSAL system. Attend to client’s enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be uploaded on the department’s ESSA System @
https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Males and White Males
POST 17/24 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR4/4/10/670
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12 Certificate. No experience. Knowledge: Treasury Regulations.
Risk Management. Supply Chain Management Framework. Public Service
Regulations and relevant prescripts. Public Administration Management Act.
16
Departmental policies and procedures. Batho Pele Principles. Public Financial
Management Act. Skills: Computer literacy. Conflict management.
Communication (both verbal and writing). Project management. Leadership.
Report Writing. Decision making.
DUTIES : Administer and provide effective and efficient management risk registers.
Perform office administration, logistical support function and ensure adequate
functioning of risk management unit and committee. Provide administration
support for the risk management activities in Supply Chain Management.
Provide assistance on ethics and anti-corruption prevention strategy
implemented.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be uploaded on the department’s ESSA System @
https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Males and White Males
POST 17/25 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT
SERVICES (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Bellville Ref No: HR4/4/10/671 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: George Ref No: HR4/4/10/672 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior certificate. No experience. Knowledge:
Administrative procedures relating to an office. Filing and retrieving of
documents. Ability to operate photocopier, Data capturing. Skills: Planning and
organizing. Communication. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Render administration support services to the Directorate. Control the
movement of documents and files in the Directorate. Provide Supply Chain
Management support in the Directorate. Render Human Resource Services
support for the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be uploaded on the department’s ESSA System @
https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Males and White Males
POST 17/26 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Mossel Bay Ref No: HR4/4/10/673 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Worcester Ref No: HR4/4/10/674 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior certificate. No experience. Knowledge: Batho
Pele Principles, Departmental policies and procedures and Treasury
Regulations. Skills: Verbal and written communication, Interpersonal relations,
Problem solving, Computer literacy, Analytical, Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : To render Supply Chain Management Function in a Labour Centre. Provide a
finance and office management service to the Labour Centre. Render a Human
Resource Management service at a Labour Centre daily. Responsible for
training and performance activities in a Labour Centre. Responsible for the
records management in a Labour Centre. Responsible for the transport in a
Labour Centre and ensure safe keeping of pool cars. Render general
administrative work for the Labour Centre as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be uploaded on the department’s ESSA System @
https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Males and White Males
POST 17/27 : OFFICE AID REF NO: HR4/4/10/675
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Standard 8/Grade 10. No experience. Knowledge: Cleaning Practices.
Catering. Office Practice. Skills: Interpersonal relations, Verbal communication
and Listening skills.
DUTIES : Ensure a clean office environment at all times. Provide food service’s aid.
Assist in distributing stock. Assist with messenger functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fuller Tel No: (021) 441 8119
17
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be uploaded on the department’s ESSA System @
https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/
NOTE : Priority will be given to Females
18
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town, Limpopo and Mpumalanga: Must be submitted to the Director-
General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, The Director:
Integrated Human Resource Management, Private Bag X4390, Cape Town,
8000 or hand-deliver to 14 Loop Street, Cape Town or can be emailed to the
respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
FOM23-2026@dffe.gov.za
FOM24-2026@dffe.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026, 16:00. No late application will be accepted.
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All candidates shortlisted for the posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Following the interview and the technical exercise of all
SMS posts, the Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on
the implementation of competency-based assessments. Persons appointed
will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement
and employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
OTHER POST
POST 17/28 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FOREST RESOURCE PROTECTION (X2 POSTS)
Re-advertisement and those who have previously applied, need to reapply.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
19
CENTRE : Western Cape Ref No: FOM23/2026
Limpopo / Mpumalanga Ref No: FOM24/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Forestry / Natural Science / Environmental
Management or relevant qualification within the related field as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in Forestry or related field. All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Knowledge, and evidence of the
National Forest Act 1998 (Act 84 of 1998), National Veld and Forest Fire Act
including Environmental Legislation and policies impacting on the forestry
sector. Sound knowledge in the regulation of natural resources. Knowledge of
government administrative procedures i.e. Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Ability to collect and interpret information and reports. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Good presentation skills. Computer
literacy. Ability to work under pressure and handle criticism. Ability to work
independently and in a team. Good international skills and supervisory skills.
Ability to negotiate in difficult situations and to resolve conflict. Ability to work
long hours. A Valid Driving License and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Implement, monitor and enforce National Forest Act and National Veld and
Forest Fire Act policy and strategies. Identify areas that can be dealt with
through other mechanisms such as regulations, guidelines, or capacity building
and awareness. Review and comment on documents such as Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) and other specialist reports for development
impacting forests and trees in accordance with the National Forest Act.
Promote compliance and enforcement regarding the National Forests Act No.
84 of 1998 and the National Veld and Forest Fire Act 1998 (Act 101 0f 1998).
Liaise with Directorate of Legal Services and State Law Advisor regarding legal
opinions and interpretation of provisions of the Act. Facilitate the appointment
of Forest Officers as Peace Officers in terms of Criminal Procedure Act, 1977.
Implement capacity building and communication programmes for stakeholders.
Conducts NFA and NVFFA training course to various stakeholders such as
SAPS, Judiciary, Magistrate and Prosecutors, State Organs. Provide technical
advice in the issuing of licenses for protected trees, State and natural forests.
Manage and maintain database of license statistics. Monitor the uniformity of
licensing by evaluating the quality and assurance process and procedures in
the Forestry Regions. Provide information & advisory services on NVFFA to
existing FPA’s, landowners & other stakeholders and support Fire Protection
Associations to ensure compliance and functionality.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape Ms T Gwala at 066 374 7795
Limpopo / Mpumalanga Ms N Mudau at 066 566 0640
20
ANNEXURE D
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION SYSTEM
The GCIS is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1)
(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies
of the Department will be taken into consideration. People with Disabilities will be accommodated within
reasonable limits. Therefore, preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the
department in achieving its Employment Equity targets in terms of the Department’s Employment Equity
Plan. Suitably qualified People with disabilities will be given preference regardless of Race or Gender.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must submit their applications via the link
http://erecruitment.gcis.gov.za or hand deliver applications to Tshedimosetso
House, 1035 cnr Francis Baard & Festival streets, Hatfield, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Kgopyane
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026
NOTE : Applicants with disabilities are encouraged to apply. The old prescribed
application or employment form Z83 was withdrawn with effect from 31
December 2020. As per the Government Gazette No: 43872, any applicant
who submits an application on or after 1 January 2021 must do so on the new
prescribed Z83 form, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Failure to submit an application on the new
prescribed Z83 form will lead to disqualification. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the fully completed and signed Z83 form and a detailed curriculum
vitae. Communication regarding submission of certified copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates.
Therefore, only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview, following communication from
the department. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must
be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). Applicants who do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be
considered. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates. If you
have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
successful candidate must disclose to the DG particulars of all registrable
financial interests, sign a performance agreement and employment contract
with the DG within three months from the date of assumption of duty and obtain
a top-secret security clearance. All appointments are subject to the verification
of educational qualifications, previous experience, citizenship, reference
checks and security vetting. The department reserves the right to fill or not to
fill the vacant post. The successful candidates will enter into an employment
contract with the GCIS that will be reviewed based on performance expiration.
By submitting the employment application form, you agree and consent in
terms of section 11 (1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013
(POPIA), for your personal information which you provide to the Government
Communication and Information System (“GCIS”) being processed by the
GCIS and its employees, agents, cabinet committees, and sub-contractors for
recruitment purposes, in accordance with the Protection of Personal
Information Act.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/29 : PROVINCIAL DIRECTOR: FREE STATE PROVINCIAL OFFICE REF NO:
3/1/5/1-26/01
Chief Directorate: Provincial and Local Liaison
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package), of which 30%
may be structured according to the individual’s needs
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in
Communication/ Media Studies/ Journalism/ Public Relations/ Development
Communication or related (NQF Level 7) qualification Majoring in
Communication/ Media Studies/ Journalism/ Public Relations/ Development
Communication. Successful completion of the Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme (Nyukela certificate) as endorsed by the
21
National School of Government is a pre-requisite for appointment. Must have
a valid driver’s license and be computer literate. At least five (5) years’
experience at middle/senior management level with extensive experience in
and knowledge of development communication, proven leadership capabilities,
and sound interpersonal and project management skills. Extensive experience
in coordinating multi-stakeholders and inter-governmental multi-media
communication campaigns. Knowledge: Comprehensive knowledge of the
Free State Province, including socio-economic and development dynamics as
well of the communication footprint and dynamics of the province, including
also at municipal level. Sound knowledge of the Public Finance Management
Act. Must have a valid driver’s license and be computer literate. Required Core
Competencies: Strategic Capacity and Leadership, People Management and
Empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management, Programme
and project Management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing strategic leadership
and management to the GCIS Provincial Directorate in the Free State Province
particularly in support of the provincial communication system headed by the
Office of the Premier. Deliver communication campaigns in line with the
National Communication Strategic Framework and the Medium-Term
Development Plan (MTDP), and the Provincial MTDP and communication
programme. Advocate for the application of the Norms and Standards of
Government Communications amongst the communication system in the
province and lend support to the Local Government Communication System.
Develop and maintain communication partnerships and networks with
provincial stakeholders from Government and Civil Society. Participate actively
in all communications forums in the province and provide strategic direction on
government communication in such forums and when urgent or rapid
communication is concerned, to protect and enhance the reputation of
government. Operate an effective, and compliant government communication
organisation. Identify and review strategic risks, oversee and manage the
implementation mitigation plans. Participate in the audit planning process and
manage responses to audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ndlelantle Pinyana Tel No: (012) 473 0188
NOTE : It is a pre-requisite for candidates to have the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-
Entry Programme certificate to be eligible for appointment. For further details,
please click on the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course,
visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za. The successful candidate must
disclose to the Minister particulars of all registrable financial interests and sign
the employment contract within one month from the date of assumption of duty
as well as sign a performance agreement with the Minister within three months
from the date of assumption of duty and obtain a Top-Secret security clearance.
Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend generic managerial competency
assessment. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript. Suitably qualified People with disabilities will be given preference
regardless of Race or Gender.
POST 17/30 : PROVINCIAL DIRECTOR: EASTERN CAPE PROVINCIAL OFFICE REF NO:
3/1/5/1-26/02
Chief Directorate: Provincial and Local Liaison
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package), of which 30%
may be structured according to the individual’s needs
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in
Communication/ Media Studies/ Journalism/ Public Relations/ Development
Communication or related (NQF Level 7) qualification Majoring in
Communication/ Media Studies/ Journalism/ Public Relations/ Development
Communication. Successful completion of the Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme (Nyukela certificate) as endorsed by the
National School of Government is a pre-requisite for appointment. Must have
a valid driver’s license and be computer literate. At least five (5) years’
experience at middle/senior management level with extensive experience in
and knowledge of development communication, proven leadership capabilities,
and sound interpersonal and project management skills. Extensive experience
in coordinating multi-stakeholders and inter-governmental multi-media
22
communication campaigns. Knowledge: Comprehensive knowledge of the
Eastern Cape Province, including socio-economic and development dynamics
as well of the communication footprint and dynamics of the province, including
also at municipal level. Sound knowledge of the Public Finance Management
Act. Must have a valid driver’s license and be computer literate. Required Core
Competencies: Strategic Capacity and Leadership, People Management and
Empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management, Programme
and project Management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing strategic leadership
and management to the GCIS Provincial Directorate in the Eastern Cape
Province particularly in support of the provincial communication system headed
by the Office of the Premier. Deliver communication campaigns in line with the
National Communication Strategic Framework and the Medium-Term
Development Plan (MTDP), and the Provincial MTDP and communication
programme. Advocate for the application of the Norms and Standards of
Government Communications amongst the communication system in the
province and lend support to the Local Government Communication System.
Develop and maintain communication partnerships and networks with
provincial stakeholders from Government and Civil Society. Participate actively
in all communications forums in the province and provide strategic direction on
government communication in such forums and when urgent or rapid
communication is concerned, to protect and enhance the reputation of
government. Operate an effective, and compliant government communication
organisation. Identify and review strategic risks, oversee and manage the
implementation mitigation plans. Participate in the audit planning process and
manage responses to audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ndlelantle Pinyana Tel No: (012) 473 0188
NOTE : It is a pre-requisite for candidates to have the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-
Entry Programme certificate to be eligible for appointment. For further details,
please click on the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course,
visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za. The successful candidate must
disclose to the Minister particulars of all registrable financial interests and sign
the employment contract within one month from the date of assumption of duty
as well as sign a performance agreement with the Minister within three months
from the date of assumption of duty and obtain a Top-Secret security clearance.
Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend generic managerial competency
assessment. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript. Suitably qualified People with disabilities will be given preference
regardless of Race or Gender.
POST 17/31 : PROVINCIAL DIRECTOR: GAUTENG PROVINCIAL OFFICE REF NO:
3/1/5/1-26/03
Chief Directorate: Provincial and Local Liaison
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package), of which 30%
may be structured according to the individual’s needs
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in
Communication/ Media Studies/ Journalism/ Public Relations/ Development
Communication or related (NQF Level 7) qualification Majoring in
Communication/ Media Studies/ Journalism/ Public Relations/ Development
Communication. Successful completion of the Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme (Nyukela certificate) as endorsed by the
National School of Government is a pre-requisite for appointment. Must have
a valid driver’s license and be computer literate. At least five (5) years’
experience at middle/senior management level with extensive experience in
and knowledge of development communication, proven leadership capabilities,
and sound interpersonal and project management skills. Extensive experience
in coordinating multi-stakeholders and inter-governmental multi-media
communication campaigns. Knowledge: Comprehensive knowledge of the
Gauteng Province, including socio-economic and development dynamics as
well of the communication footprint and dynamics of the province, including
also at municipal level. Sound knowledge of the Public Finance Management
Act. Must have a valid driver’s license and be computer literate. Required Core
Competencies: Strategic Capacity and Leadership, People Management and
23
Empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management, Programme
and project Management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing strategic leadership
and management to the GCIS Provincial Directorate in the Gauteng Province
particularly in support of the provincial communication system headed by the
Office of the Premier. Deliver communication campaigns in line with the
National Communication Strategic Framework and the Medium-Term
Development Plan (MTDP), and the Provincial MTDP and communication
programme. Advocate for the application of the Norms and Standards of
Government Communications amongst the communication system in the
province and lend support to the Local Government Communication System.
Develop and maintain communication partnerships and networks with
provincial stakeholders from Government and Civil Society. Participate actively
in all communications forums in the province and provide strategic direction on
government communication in such forums and when urgent or rapid
communication is concerned, to protect and enhance the reputation of
government. Operate an effective, and compliant government communication
organisation. Identify and review strategic risks, oversee and manage the
implementation mitigation plans. Participate in the audit planning process and
manage responses to audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ndlelantle Pinyana Tel No: (012) 473 0188
NOTE : It is a pre-requisite for candidates to have the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-
Entry Programme certificate to be eligible for appointment. For further details,
please click on the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course,
visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za. The successful candidate must
disclose to the Minister particulars of all registrable financial interests and sign
the employment contract within one month from the date of assumption of duty
as well as sign a performance agreement with the Minister within three months
from the date of assumption of duty and obtain a Top-Secret security clearance.
Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend candidates to attend generic managerial competency
assessment. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript. Suitably qualified People with disabilities will be given preference
regardless of Race or Gender.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/32 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DIGITAL MEDIA REF NO: 3/1/5/1-26/04
Directorate: Digital Media
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) as recognised by SAQA in Journalism, Media Studies, Multimedia Studies,
Communication or equivalent related qualification. Four (4) years’ relevant
experience of which two (2) years should be on salary level nine (9), ten (10)
or equivalent junior management level. Experience in website content
management, digital publishing, content management systems and the
distribution of government information through digital platforms. Competency
in one or more content management systems, such as SharePoint, Drupal,
WordPress and Joomla. Knowledge of government communication, web
publishing standards, digital content coordination, online audience needs and
content quality assurance. Excellent writing and editing skills in English.
Understanding of digital content management, web publishing environments,
online collaboration tools and emerging technologies that support digital
communication, workflow automation and citizen engagement. Experience in
coordinating teams, managing workflows, compiling reports, maintaining
records and working with internal and external stakeholders. Excellent
interpersonal, stakeholder engagement and communication skills. Ability to
work independently with minimal direct supervision and as part of a team.
Ability to work under pressure and meet tight deadlines. Proficiency in more
than one South African official language will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge and understanding of no-code and low-code technologies, web
application development platforms and AI-powered digital tools will serve as an
added advantage. Experience or familiarity with modern web development and
digital engagement platforms, including Wix, customer relationship
24
management systems, Microsoft Power Apps, chatbot development tools,
Adobe Creative Suite and omnichannel digital communication tools or
platforms, will serve as an added advantage.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for coordinating the
implementation of the websites and web publishing component of the Digital
Media Directorate’s operational work. Coordinate the daily administration,
maintenance, improvement and content management of GCIS-managed
websites and related content management systems. Coordinate the
identification, selection, preparation, uploading and updating of website
content to ensure that information remains accurate, relevant, accessible and
up to date. Provide operational oversight of allocated GCIS-managed websites
and related digital publishing platforms, including SAnews, Vuk’uzenzele and
other relevant content management systems. Monitor website functionality,
content quality and user experience, and coordinate the resolution of content-
related or system-related issues with relevant stakeholders. Support website
improvements, including content structure, navigation, accessibility,
searchability, usability and compliance with approved editorial, branding and
web publishing standards. Assist with the development, updating and
implementation of guidelines, standards and procedures relating to website
content management, digital publishing, content governance and quality
assurance. Provide advisory services and support to government departments
and internal stakeholders on website content management, web publishing
and the use of content management systems. Coordinate operational activities
within the unit, including workflow processes, task allocation, deadline
management and support to team members. Compile reports on website
activities, content updates, performance trends, risks, challenges and areas
requiring improvement. Manage website-related correspondence, stakeholder
requests and official email communication to ensure timely responses, proper
coordination and accurate record-keeping. Maintain records and utilise
enterprise information management systems, including the SharePoint
Document Centre, to ensure that work-related documents and correspondence
are stored in accordance with the GCIS File Plan and records management
requirements. Contribute to digital projects, campaigns and online
communication activities by ensuring that relevant website content is
published, updated and aligned with approved communication priorities.
Provide support within the broader Digital Media Directorate, including digital
publishing, content scheduling, campaign support, monitoring of digital
platforms, social media coordination and related online communication
activities, as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Tumelo Komape Tel No: (012) 473 0174
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript. This post will be filled by a candidate whose appointment will assist
the department in achieving its Employment Equity targets in terms of the
Department’s Employment Equity Plan. Preference will be given to coloured
and white candidates. Suitably qualified People with disabilities will be given
preference regardless of Race or Gender.
POST 17/33 : REGIONAL COMMUNICATION COORDINATOR: LIASON REF NO: 3/1/5/1-
6/05
Directorate: KwaZulu Natal Provincial Office
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Harry Gwala
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) as recognised by SAQA in Journalism/ Media Studies/ Communication/
Public Relations majoring in Journalism/Media/ Communication. At least three
(3) years’ relevant experience of which one (1) year should be on salary level
seven (7), eight (8) or equivalent supervisory level in the communications
environment with knowledge of communication disciplines, including media
liaison, stakeholder relations, research and development communication. The
candidate must understand development communication practice, and
knowledge of KwaZulu Natal Province with specific insights to Harry Gwala
district and its local municipalities. Be innovative, digital literate and abreast
25
with digital communication methods and applications. A self-motivated and
enthusiastic person able to work with limited levels of supervision. Strong
verbal and effective writing and communication skills. Furthermore, applicant
should be in possession of a valid Code 08 driver’s licence as the work involves
extensive travelling. Basic knowledge of administration and finances is
required. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will support the Deputy Director: Liaison in the
implementation of a government communication programme (GCP) in Harry
Gwala District as follows: Disseminate government information and implement
key communication projects in line with government priorities and in
accordance with the guidelines for development communication practice and
platforms as developed by GCIS. Supervise and monitor the work of district
based Senior Communication Officers (if any) as well as any communication
interns or learners assigned to the region, including their administrative and
operational functions, and report these to the Deputy Director: Provincial
Liaison. Leadership in government communication system coordination in
Harry Gwala district. Ensure the establishment and where necessary review
and strengthening of communication coordination structures in the district to
ensure the effective cascading of government communication content
especially to leaders and structures of local government across the district.
Ensure adherence to government communication system norms and
standards in the district in line with the government communication policy.
Support all initiatives aimed at strengthening Local Government
Communication System through advocacy in strategic IGR structures at District
and local level. Further, provide communication support to various integrated
service delivery models of government, including the District Development
Model (DDM) and the Thusong Service Centre programme. Embrace new
media and utilise digital tools as part of cascading government content.
Responsible for the development and maintenance of high-level stakeholder
relations in the region with biasness towards civil society, community media,
minority groups, local government and traditional leaders. Coordination and
implementation of rapid response requirements in the district as well as writing
service delivery articles on governments’ delivery on its mandate. Responsible
for the revision and development of a localised distribution strategy for
government information products at district level. Additionally, on a regular
basis, be required to develop local communication environment assessments
reports on key issues emanating from the district for the use by various
stakeholders and clients. Support government public participation initiatives
including feedback and follow up on the required communication interventions
as recommended.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Ndala Mngadi Tel No: (031) 301 6787
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript. Suitably qualified People with disabilities will be given preference
regardless of Race or Gender.
POST 17/34 : REGIONAL COMMUNICATION COORDINATOR: LIASON REF NO: 3/1/5/1-
26/06
Directorate: Gauteng Provincial Office
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Ekurhuleni
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) as recognised by SAQA in Journalism/ Media Studies/ Communication/
Public Relations majoring in Journalism/Media/ Communication. At least three
(3) years’ relevant experience of which one (1) year should be on salary level
seven (7), eight (8) or equivalent supervisory level in the communications
environment with knowledge of communication disciplines, including media
liaison, stakeholder relations, research and development communication. The
candidate must understand development communication practice, and
knowledge of Gauteng Province with specific insights to Ekurhuleni district and
its local municipalities. Be innovative, digital literate and abreast with digital
communication methods and applications. A self-motivated and enthusiastic
person able to work with limited levels of supervision. Strong verbal and
26
effective writing and communication skills. Furthermore, applicant should be in
possession of a valid Code 08 driver’s licence as the work involves extensive
travelling. Basic knowledge of administration and finances is required. Ability
to work under pressure.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will support the Deputy Director: Liaison in the
implementation of a government communication programme (GCP) in
Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality (Metro) as follows: Disseminate
government information and implement key communication projects in line with
government priorities and in accordance with the guidelines for development
communication practice and platforms as developed by GCIS. Supervise and
monitor the work of GCIS office Metro based Senior Communication Officers
(if any) as well as any communication interns or learners assigned to the
region, including their administrative and operational functions, and report
these to the Deputy Director: Provincial Liaison. Leadership in government
communication system coordination in Ekurhuleni Metropolitan area. Ensure
the establishment and where necessary review and strengthening of
communication coordination structures in the Metro to ensure the effective
cascading of government communication content especially to leaders and
structures of local government across the district. Ensure adherence to
government communication system norms and standards in the district in line
with the government communication policy. Support all initiatives aimed at
strengthening Local Government Communication System through advocacy in
strategic IGR structures at Ekurhuleni level. Further, provide communication
support to various integrated service delivery models of government, including
the District Development Model (DDM) and the Thusong Service Centre
programme. Embrace new media and utilise digital tools as part of cascading
government content. Responsible for the development and maintenance of
high-level stakeholder relations in the region with biasness towards civil
society, community media, minority groups, local government and traditional
leaders. Coordination and implementation of rapid response requirements in
the district as well as writing service delivery articles on governments’ delivery
on its mandate. Responsible for the revision and development of a localised
distribution strategy for government information products at Metro level.
Additionally, on a regular basis, be required to develop local communication
environment assessments reports on key issues emanating from the district for
the use by various stakeholders and clients. Support government public
participation initiatives including feedback and follow up on the required
communication interventions as recommended.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ndlelantle Pinyana Tel No: (012) 473 0188
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript. Suitably qualified People with disabilities will be given preference
regardless of Race or Gender.
POST 17/35 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RESEARCH REF NO: 3/1/5/1-26/07
Directorate: Research Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma (NQF
6) as recognised by SAQA in Communication Sciences/Social Sciences/
Political Sciences/ Statistics. A relevant post-graduate qualification with a
research component, including completion of an academic research project,
will be an added advantage. At least three (3) years’ relevant experience of
which one (1) year should be on salary level seven (7), eight (8) or equivalent
supervisory level in research/ communication research (Experience gained
through the completion of a full academic research project, encompassing all
research processes, will be considered as part of experience). General
managerial, project management and administration experience (related to
tasks of human resources). Good general knowledge and interest in current
and government affairs. Skills: Competence in research design and analytical
skills with proven experience in qualitative and quantitative research
methodologies. Must be well-versed in all aspects related to communication
research processes. Competence in qualitative and quantitative data collection
27
as well as experience in writing research proposals or research briefs.
Proficiency in MS programmes and data analysis packages (i.e. SPSS). Ability
to liaise with clients and service providers. Proficiency in both presentation and
report writing. Ability to work independently without direct supervision as well
as in a team. Must be able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will assist with the management, planning and
application of research to enhance effectiveness of government
communication. Assist in providing research advice and a support service to
GCIS and to clients in terms of communication research. Professionally liaise
with service providers and clients. Design qualitative and quantitative data
collection instrument, including the administration of appropriate research
instruments. Conduct quantitative data analysis using software such as SPSS
and MS Excel programme. Ability to analyse qualitative data. Interpret research
results and prepare research reports (Ms Word & Ms PowerPoint) for sharing
with relevant stakeholders. Present research findings at various stakeholder
meetings (internal and external). Aid in general managerial tasks, including
financial management to ensure optimal resource management in the
Directorate: Research Services. Work as part of a team in the Directorate and
GCIS project teams.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Getrude Sadiki Tel No: (012) 473 0095
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript. This post will be filled by a suitably qualified candidate whose
appointment will assist the department in achieving its Employment Equity
targets in terms of the Department’s Employment Equity Plan. Preference will
be given to coloured and white candidates. Suitably qualified People with
disabilities will be given preference regardless of Race or Gender.
POST 17/36 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: NEWS SERVICES (SENIOR REPORTER) REF
NO: 3/1/5/1-26/08
Directorate: News Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a National Diploma (NQF Level 6) as
recognised by SAQA in Journalism, Communication or an equivalent related
qualification. At least three (3) years’ journalistic experience in print, broadcast
and/or digital media, which one (1) year should be on salary level seven (7),
eight (8) or equivalent supervisory level. Applicants must be computer literate,
with sound working knowledge of Microsoft Word, email, internet-based
research and digital content tools used for writing, editing, content filing and
online publishing. Applicants must have sound knowledge of government
policies and programmes, government communication, current affairs and the
broader South African media environment. Applicants must be news-driven
journalism professionals with strong editorial judgement and research skills.
Applicants must have excellent English writing skills. He/she must be able to
write accurate, clear and engaging news articles and feature stories for online
platforms. He/she must also be able to produce or support the production of
basic multimedia content, including photographs, short videos and other digital
material suitable for digital platforms. Applicants must have knowledge of social
media, digital publishing, online audience needs and multimedia storytelling.
Applicants must have excellent interviewing skills, the confidence to interview
senior and high-profile government officials, and the ability to process complex
information, analyse the communication environment and generate original
story ideas linked to government priorities and public interest. Good
interpersonal, teamwork and communication skills are essential. Applicants
must be willing to accept editorial guidance, coaching and mentoring. They
must be able to work under pressure, meet deadlines, and be flexible and
available to work after hours, including evenings, weekends and public
holidays, when required. Applicants must also be available to travel, sometimes
at short notice. A valid driver’s licence is essential. Proficiency in two official
South African languages will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for initiating, researching,
developing and producing news and feature content for SAnews.gov.za and
28
other GCIS platforms. This will include attending government briefings, media
events and official programmes locally and across the country; conducting
research and interviews; writing accurate and balanced government news
stories; producing multimedia content; filing content under tight deadlines; and
contributing to digital platforms through text, photographs and videos. The role
will require the use of relevant digital reporting, content production and
publishing tools in the performance of duties, in line with departmental policies
and available resources. The successful candidate will also be expected to
maintain strong working relationships with other government communicators
and relevant stakeholders and contribute to the effective positioning of SAnews
as a credible government news agency.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Roze Britz Tel No: (012) 473 0263
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript. This post will be filled by a suitably qualified candidate whose
appointment will assist the department in achieving its Employment Equity
targets in terms of the Department’s Employment Equity Plan. Preference will
be given to coloured and white candidates. Suitably qualified People with
disabilities will be given preference regardless of Race or Gender.
POST 17/37 : PRINCIPAL COMMUNICATION OFFICER: COMMUNICATION AND MEDIA
MONITORING REF NO: 3/1/5/1-26/09
Directorate: Government Communication, Monitoring and Evaluation
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma (NQF 6) in
Journalism/ Media Studies/ Communication/ Public Relations/ Public
Administration/ Public Governance or equivalent related qualification. At least
two (2) years’ experience in communication and media monitoring and
analysis; experience and skills in communication and media data capturing,
and use of Excel spreadsheets. Knowledge of and experience in monitoring
and evaluation will be a recommendation. Good communication/liaison,
planning and research skills. Proficiency in using GCIS’ Government
Communication Excellence Tool (G-CET) and Media Monitoring and Analysis
Tools. Strong knowledge and understanding of government programmes and
priorities. Knowledge of and a strong interest in current affairs and the South
African socio-political situation. Understanding of the media landscape and
environment. Tested knowledge of monitoring and evaluation and media
analysis methodologies. Willingness to travel. Have a code 8 or 10 driver’s
licence. Analytical thinking and problem-solving skills. Well-developed
interpersonal and problem-solving skills. Ability to work independently, but also
to coordinate work within a team environment. Ability to work under pressure.
Advanced computer skills. Intermediate to advanced report writing and
presentation skills. Proficiency in internet searches. Use of databases and
electronic dissemination of products. Planning and organising.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to support the work of monitoring and
evaluating government communication at National, Provincial, and Local levels
especially through capturing and analysing communication performance data.
Support media monitoring and analysis through GCIS’ Media Monitoring and
Analysis System to monitor and analyse communications environment for
media coverage of government’s priorities; major programmes; special events
like the State of the Nation Address; communication campaigns and activities
and assist with the compilation of media analysis reports. The official will also
have to support GCIS projects such as the Government Communication Policy
and also contribute to administrative functions in the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Brite Nemaranzhe Tel No: (012) 473 0040
NOTE : In line with the Directive on the Professionalisation of Human Resource
Management and Development in Public Service, all shortlisted candidates will
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine their suitability based on the technical and generic requirements of
the post. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic
transcript. This post will be filled by a suitably qualified candidate whose
appointment will assist the department in achieving its Employment Equity
29
targets in terms of the Department’s Employment Equity Plan. Preference will
be given to coloured and white candidates. Suitably qualified People with
disabilities will be given preference regardless of Race or Gender.
30
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Western TVET College)
(Motheo TVET College)
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/38 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROJECT MANAGEMENT REF NO:
CORP/ASD/PM/01
Nature of Appointment: Contract (College Council Appointment)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 37% lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Corporate Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 Certificate plus a recognised 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Building Management / Safety Management / Civil Engineering /
Architecture Construction Management / Project Management or any other
relevant qualification in Engineering. A minimum of 3 to 5 years relevant work
experience in facilities management, SHERQ and OHS of which 2-3 years
should be on a supervisory level. Must have a valid driver’s license. Must be
computer literate. Competencies, Knowledge, and Skills: Must have
knowledge of the TVET sector regulations and legislative framework.
Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, fire control and facilities management systems. must demonstrate
leadership, communication skills, and attention to detail while managing the
entire lifecycle of the project. Should have strong administrative, planning,
organising, report writing, project management, problem solving and people
management skills.
DUTIES : Successful candidates will be responsible for the planning, execution, and
success of a project which includes the following responsibilities: Manage the
development or improvement of physical infrastructure to ensure college has
adequate physical infrastructure and maintenance in line with Capital
Infrastructure Efficiency Grant (CIEG). Compile maintenance plan regarding
machinery, tools, and equipment costing and submitted to DHET. Timeous
reporting to different stakeholders. Determine and define project scope and
objectives. Predict resources needed to reach objectives and manage
resources in an effective and efficient manner. Prepare budget based on scope
of work and resource requirements. Track project costs to meet budget.
Develop and manage a detailed project schedule and work plan. Provide
project updates on a consistent basis to various stakeholders about strategy,
adjustments, and progress. Manage contracts with vendors and suppliers by
assigning tasks and communicating expected deliverables. Monitor progress
of the projects. Measure project performance to identify areas for improvement.
Engage with all levels of the organisation in a professional manner. Setup and
manage project governing meetings at all levels of the project structure. Ensure
that all stakeholders and project team members execute on their activities in
terms of the project mandate. Identify potential risk hazards in the building and
ensure there is proper signage in and around the buildings to minimise risks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Hlatshwayo/Mr P Motai Tel No: (011) 692 4004 Ext. 1010/1061/1062
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email it to ASDPM2026@westcol.co.za
in a pdf format and as one attachment, quoting the relevant reference number
to the Principal, Western TVET College, Corporate Office, 42 Johnstone Street,
Randfontein, 1760.
NOTE : All applications must be accompanied by a signed and fully completed NEW
Z83 form obtainable from any public service Department or DPSA website, a
comprehensive CV including at least three contactable references. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of original
documents with academic records/transcripts and other relevant supporting
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR Office. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation
report. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Successful candidates will
be subjected to a vetting and financial disclosure process (criminal record,
citizenship, qualification verification and employment verification). People living
31
with disability are encouraged to apply. If you have not been contacted within
six months after closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful. Western TVET College is an equal opportunities employer and
reserves the right not to fill the posts. Please ensure that the Z83 form is
completed in full. Incomplete Z83 will be disqualified.
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 at 12:00.
POST 17/39 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: OFFICE OF THE PRINCIPAL REF NO:
CORP/PA/02
Nature of Appointment: Permanent (PERSAL appointment)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), plus benefits
CENTRE : Corporate Office
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 Certificate plus a recognised 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Office Management and Technology / Public Management /
Management Assistant / Secretarial or any other relevant qualification. Must
have a minimum of 3 to 5 years relevant work experience in rendering support
service to Senior Management. Supervisory experience will be an added
advantage. Must have a valid driver’s license. Must be computer literate.
Competencies, Knowledge, and Skills: Must have knowledge and
understanding of relevant legislation, prescripts, policies, and procedures.
Basic knowledge of Financial Management. Record management of
documents. Good telephone etiquette. Sound planning and organising skills.
Good people skills. High level of reliability. Written and verbal communication
skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to do research, analyse
documents and situations. Maintain confidentiality. Willingness to work extra
hours when required.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial support service to the principal. Performs advanced
typing work. Operate and ensure that office equipment is in good working order.
Records the engagements of the principal. Coordinates with and advises the
principal regarding engagements. Compiles realistic schedules of
appointments. Renders administrative support services. Ensures effective flow
of information and documents to and from the office of the principal. Ensures
the safekeeping of all documentation in the office of the principal in line with
relevant legislation and policies. Ensures that travel arrangements are well
coordinated. Handles the procurement of standard items like stationery,
refreshments for the activities of the principal and unit. Obtains the necessary
signatures on documents. Provides support to the manager in the office of the
principal regarding meetings. Records minutes, decisions or resolutions taken
and communicates to relevant role players, follow-up on progress made.
Coordinates logistical arrangements for meetings when required. Keeps record
of expenditure commitments, monitors expenditure and alerts the principal of
possible over and under spending. Checks and correlates BAS reports to
ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly. Remains up to date with the
prescripts, policies, and procedures applicable to his /her work terrain to ensure
efficient and effective support to the principal. Remains abreast with the
procedures and processes that apply in the office of the principal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Hlatshwayo/Mr P Motai Tel No: (011) 692 4004 Ext. 1010/1061/1062
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email it to PA@westcol.co.za in a pdf
format and as one attachment, quoting the relevant reference number to the
Principal, Western TVET College, Corporate Office, 42 Johnstone Street,
Randfontein, 1760.
NOTE : All applications must be accompanied by a signed and fully completed NEW
Z83 form obtainable from any public service Department or DPSA website, a
comprehensive CV including at least three contactable references. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of original
documents with academic records/transcripts and other relevant supporting
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR Office. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation
report. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Successful candidates will
be subjected to a vetting and financial disclosure process (criminal record,
citizenship, qualification verification and employment verification). People living
with disability are encouraged to apply. If you have not been contacted within
32
six months after closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful. Western TVET College is an equal opportunities employer and
reserves the right not to fill the posts. Please ensure that the Z83 form is
completed in full. Incomplete Z83 will be disqualified.
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 at 12:00.
POST 17/40 : MIS OFFICER REF NO: MOT/MIS/CO/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate National Diploma (NQF 6)/ B Degree in Information Management
/DATA management or equivalent qualification. 2 years working experience in
Management of Information System (MIS) or DATA Management environment
or any relevant knowledge. Sound knowledge of the following: Policies that
governs TVET Colleges including knowledge of the TVETMIS system and
annual reporting requirements. CET Act; PSET; ISO and quality management
systems. Knowledge and understanding of information system and the
understanding, application and interpretation of office management,
COLTECH, DATA warehouse and IT prescripts.
DUTIES : To provide TVET Management Information System (MIS) services in the entire
college. Maintain and administer TVETMIS, capturing and DATA extraction for
the college. Compile and produce various reports and statistics. Capture and
update information on COLTECH/TVETMIS and other related systems.
Provide administration of all academic and student related system
programmes, courses and qualification. Facilitate the renewal of TVETMIS
licenses before expiry dates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Shopane Tel No: (051) 014 7850
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be mailed to: Deputy Principal Corporate Services.
Motheo TVET College, Private Bag X20509, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand
delivered at Motheo TVET College, Central office Corner St George and Aliwal
Streets alternatively be sent by e-mail to: recruitment@motheotvet.edu.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr J Ntsane/Ms N Nameka/Ms Lebeko Tel No: (051) 014 7850
NOTE : Applicants are required to submit only a completed signed New Z83 form
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (eg. Indicating positions held,
dates and key performance areas/responsibilities. Certified copies of ID, Valid
driver’s Licence, where applicable, and all other required relevant documents
like qualifications, will only be requested from shortlisted candidates on or
before the interview date. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake pre-entry assessments. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. People with disabilities are encouraged to
apply. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation
report. Immigrants should apply for work permits before assumption of
duty. Successful candidates will be subjected to security screening, and may
be required to work at other places as may reasonably be required by the
College. Motheo TVET College reserves the right to withdraw the mentioned
advert. Please consider your application as unsuccessful should you not be
contacted within 3 months from the closing date. Failure to comply with the
requirements mention, will result in the candidate being disqualified. NB:
Candidates whose appointments promote representatively in terms of gender,
race and disability will receive first preference.
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 at 14H00.
POST 17/41 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: MOT/ADM/BFN/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Campus
REQUIREMENTS : N6 in Office management/ National Diploma in Office Management. 1-year
experience in Clerical/Administrative environment. Computer Literacy. Sound
knowledge of TVET Sector policies as well as Department of Higher
Education. Knowledge of the Legislative framework governing the Public
Service. Ability to capture data and ability to keep campus and personnel
records. Must have good verbal and written communication skills. Good
interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : To render administrative support services to the campus. Render general
clerical support services for the campus, by recording; organising and keeping
correspondence records. Provide personnel administration support services
33
within the campus by maintaining leave registers and attendance register,
maintaining personnel records.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs M Tebele Tel No: (051) 014 7601
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be mailed to: Deputy Principal Corporate Services.
Motheo TVET College, Private Bag X20509, Bloemfontein 9300 or hand
delivered at Motheo TVET College, Central office Corner St George and Aliwal
Streets alternatively be sent by e-mail to: recruitment@motheotvet.edu.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr J Ntsane/Ms N Nameka/Ms Lebeko Tel No: (051) 014 7850
NOTE : Applicants are required to submit only a completed signed New Z83 form
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (eg. Indicating positions held,
dates and key performance areas/responsibilities. Certified copies of ID, Valid
driver’s Licence, where applicable, and all other required relevant documents
like qualifications, will only be requested from shortlisted candidates on or
before the interview date. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake pre-entry assessments. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. People with disabilities are encouraged to
apply. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation
report. Immigrants should apply for work permits before assumption of
duty. Successful candidates will be subjected to security screening and may
be required to work at other places as may reasonably be required by the
College. Motheo TVET College reserves the right to withdraw the mentioned
advert. Please consider your application as unsuccessful should you not be
contacted within 3 months from the closing date. Failure to comply with the
requirements mention, will result in the candidate being disqualified. NB:
Candidates whose appointments promote representatively in terms of gender,
race and disability will receive first preference.
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 at 14H00.
POST 17/42 : ADMIN CLERKS: ADMINISTRATION SERVICES (X3 POSTS)
Nature of Appointment: Permanent (PERSAL appointment)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), plus benefits
CENTRE : Carletonville Ref No: CV/ADMIN/CLERK/03
Krugersdorp West Ref No: KW/ADMIN/CLERK/04
Randfontein Ref No: RFT/ADMIN/CLERK/05
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade12 Certificate plus a recognised 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Public Administration/Management Assistant/Office Management
and Technology or any other relevant qualification. Must be computer literate
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Internet). A valid driver’s license
will be an added advantage. Must be computer literate. Competencies,
Knowledge, and Skills: Must have knowledge and understanding of the
registration processes and procedure. Ability to communicate well with people
at different levels and backgrounds. Must have knowledge of switchboard
operation. Must have good telephone etiquette. Ability to capture data. Should
have sound organisational skills, planning, organising, communication,
customer services and report writing skills. High level of integrity and loyalty.
DUTIES : Administer and assist with student registration processes in line with the
college’s Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Capture and verify student
information on the Business Management System (BMS). Print and distribute
control lists and class registers. Verify data before submission to the
Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET). Screen and process
online applications. Attend to student and public enquiries. Operate the
campus switchboard and direct calls appropriately. Capture student marks and
absenteeism accurately. Maintain updated student academic records and
ensure all information is securely stored and accessible when required.
Capturing and administration of requisition forms, receive goods and services,
verify deliveries against relevant documents, and follow up on outstanding
orders. Ensure proper documentation and filing for all procurement-related
transactions at campus level. Provide administrative support services
(application of college bursaries) to the campus management team.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Hlatshwayo/Mr P Motai Tel No: (011) 692 4004 Ext. 1010/1061/1062
APPLICATIONS : Please hand deliver your application or email it to Admin Clerk: Carletonville
– AdminCAL2026@westcol.co.za ; Admin Clerk: Krugersdorp West –
AdminKW2026@westcol.co.za ; Admin Clerk: Randfontein –
AdminRFT2026@westcol.co.za in a pdf format and as one attachment, quoting
34
the relevant reference number to the Principal, Western TVET College,
Corporate Office, 42 Johnstone Street, Randfontein, 1760.
NOTE : All applications must be accompanied by a signed and fully completed NEW
Z83 form obtainable from any public service Department or DPSA website, a
comprehensive CV including at least three contactable references. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of original
documents with academic records/transcripts and other relevant supporting
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR Office. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation
report. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Successful candidates will
be subjected to a vetting and financial disclosure process (criminal record,
citizenship, qualification verification and employment verification). People living
with disability are encouraged to apply. If you have not been contacted within
six months after closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful. Western TVET College is an equal opportunities employer and
reserves the right not to fill the posts. Please ensure that the Z83 form is
completed in full. Incomplete Z83 will be disqualified.
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 at 12:00.
POST 17/43 : CLEANER REF NO: MOT/CLN/BFN/2026
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Campus
REQUIREMENTS : ABET/Standard 8/Gr 10. Basic literacy, numeracy and communication skills.
Must be able to read and write. Ability to interact with other officials in a
professional manner. Knowledge of cleaning procedures, maintenance
procedures and safety requirements attached to the duties assigned. Able to
use cleaning material appropriately. Be flexible to manage time effectively.
DUTIES : Ensure the cleaning of office /classrooms and surroundings. Ensure high level
of cleanliness throughout the campus. Carry out all tasks related to cleaning.
Vacuuming, dusting and sweeping of offices, corridors, kitchens, halls and
classrooms. Empty litter bins around the campus on a daily basis. Cleaning
windows, doors and walls. Replacing toilet paper, soap and hand towels.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs M Tebele Tel No: (051) 014 7601
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be mailed to: Deputy Principal Corporate Services.
Motheo TVET College, Private Bag X20509, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand
delivered at Motheo TVET College, Central office Corner St George and Aliwal
Streets alternatively be sent by e-mail to: recruitment@motheotvet.edu.za.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr J Ntsane/Ms N Nameka/Ms Lebeko Tel No: (051) 014 7850
NOTE : Applicants are required to submit only a completed signed New Z83 form
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g. Indicating positions held,
dates and key performance areas/responsibilities. Certified copies of ID, Valid
driver’s Licence, where applicable, and all other required relevant documents
like qualifications, will only be requested from shortlisted candidates on or
before the interview date. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake pre-entry assessments. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. People with disabilities are encouraged to
apply. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by a SAQA evaluation
report. Immigrants should apply for work permits before assumption of
duty. Successful candidates will be subjected to security screening and may
be required to work at other places as may reasonably be required by the
College. Motheo TVET College reserves the right to withdraw the mentioned
advert. Please consider your application as unsuccessful should you not be
contacted within 3 months from the closing date. Failure to comply with the
requirements mention, will result in the candidate being disqualified. NB:
Candidates whose appointments promote representatively in terms of gender,
race and disability will receive first preference.
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 at 14H00.
35
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
The DHA is a merit-based, equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. In line with its commitment
to promoting representivity, in the filling of entry-level positions preference may be given to locally based
candidates on grounds of affordability as well as to (unemployed) youth and the DHA’s interns and
learners who have successfully completed their respective skills development programmes. In the filling
of all posts, preference may be afforded to persons with disabilities, and in respect of SMS-level posts, to
women. Persons falling in these categories and who meet the post requirements are preferred.
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent
to the correct address specified at the bottom of the posts, on or before the
closing date, accompanied by a fully completed Application for Employment
Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number and job title, and a
comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy), job title, duties
performed and exit reason for each employment period to be considered, as
well as the details of at least two contactable employment references (as recent
as possible), regardless of online or manual submission. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. Shortlisted candidates will also be required to
submit a copy of their ID document, a valid driver’s license (if specified as a job
requirement), relevant educational qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic
Transcripts of completed qualifications, and Acting letters as directed.
Furthermore, applicants who possess (a) foreign qualification(s), are required
to submit the evaluated results of such qualifications, as received from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA); will be subjected to an interview,
various relevant tests and assessments, and employment suitability checks
(credit, criminal, citizenship, qualifications, and employment references
including verification of exit reasons, and conducting business with State).
Once appointed, serving of a prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a
security clearance appropriate to the post, will be required. Correspondence
between the Department and candidates will be limited to shortlisted
candidates, only. The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) seeks to hire patriotic,
professional, passionate and talented individuals to form part of a new
leadership team, equipped with the right skills to facilitate the transformation of
Home Affairs into a digital-first, world-class organisation. If you are committed
to delivering on the Medium-Term Development Plan’s priorities through digital
transformation, ascribe to the Department’s shared value set, have what it
takes to deliver on the needs of DHA Clients with the highest levels of dignity,
integrity and innovation, and your credentials meet the requirements of any of
the following positions, kindly respond before the closing date. The DHA
complies with the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4 of
2013). Applicants’ personal information will be used for recruitment purposes,
retained where required for audit, and safeguarded against unauthorised
disclosure, except where legally required. Submission of an application
constitutes consent to such processing.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/44 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: IS INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT REF NO: HRMC
27/26/1
Chief Directorate: IS Infrastructure Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum (Level 14), an all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology, Computer Science,
Computer Engineering, Information and Communication Technology,
Information Systems at NQF 7 as recognized by SAQA. 5 Years’ Senior
Management experience in ICT / Information Services (IS) Infrastructure
environment is required. Experience in IS Infrastructure / Information
36
Communication Technology (ICT). Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory
Framework. Knowledge of Departmental Legislations and Prescripts.
Knowledge of the Constitution of South Africa. Sound knowledge and
application of the GITO Requirement and Frameworks. Knowledge of the State
Information Technology Agency 88nof 1998. Act Understanding of
Departmental Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the E government policy
framework consultation paper developed by GITO. Sound knowledge of the
National Strategic Intelligence Act. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. On call is required. A valid Driver's License. Completion of the Senior
Management Services Pre-entry Certificate upon appointment. Required skills
and competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership Execution. Service
delivery innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. People
management and empowerment. Financial management. Honesty and
Integrity. Program and Project Management. Change Management. Ability to
manage IS risk and quality, Enterprise Architectural and Strategic IS Alignment
operations. Communication skills. Knowledge Management. Decision making.
Presentation skills. Influencing and networking. Attention to detail. Process
analysis and improvement. Business report writing. Research Methodology
and Analysis. Influencing and networking. Time management. Business
Continuity. Communication. Support digital transformation. Patriotism, Honesty
and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Oversee the operation of the Data Centre and all associated
infrastructure, applying Life Cycle management principles. Oversee the
management of performance, availability, response trends and error rates of
all servers and resolve or escalate issues. Ensure business continuity and
configuration management to ensure the sustainability and availability of
servers. Ensure the management of operations of servers, power management
of all hardware devices, software, input and output devices. Oversee the
management of the server room security, data centre access control,
environmental controls and access control. Ensure availability of systems 24/7
with periodic maintenance, software upgrades or patches, electrical
installation, shutdowns and renovations. Oversee multiple tiers of high
complexity, risk and exposure in accordance with the design of the facility and
equipment supporting the Tier 3 Data Centre. Ensure Data Centre security
through the administration of storage, user identification, security procedures
and password and user ID management. Ensure the management of the Data
Centre environment is well maintained, and there is power redundancy.
Evaluate the performance, availability, response trends and error rates of all
servers and resolve or escalate issues. Oversee the management of
Infrastructure, Networks and Cyber Security Solutions life cycle management.
Provide management oversight into IT General system control matters,
ensuring that regulatory and compliance requirements, inter alia, COBIT19 and
DPSA frameworks, are entrenched in the operating environments.
Recommend vendors and service contractors to ensure the best value is being
delivered to the Department. Oversee the development, implementation, and
review of data centre operations policies, processes, procedures, standards,
and templates. Oversee the management of networks (WAN and LAN) and
infrastructure operations. Oversee the management of Information Systems
(IS) Security frameworks and plans. Oversee the implementation of IS Cyber
security technologies relating to the protection of infrastructure, systems,
applications and information assets. Drive the implementation of Information
Security Governance and ensure compliance with relevant standards and
legislative requirements. Ensure the implementation of effective risk and
compliance management practices. Provide strategic leadership and direction
to the Chief Directorate. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on
compliance with regulatory requirements. Support the Department’s Digital
Transformation Strategy and infrastructure modernisation initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms S Mkhaliphi Tel No: (012) 406 7109
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
isrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 17/45 : DISTRICT MANAGER OPERATIONS REF NO: HRMC 27/26/2
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13), An all-inclusive salary package
37
CENTRE : District Municipal Office: Uthungulu: Kwazulu-Natal
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management, Social Science,
Leadership, Management or Administration at NQF 7 as recognized by SAQA.
5 Years’ Middle Management / Senior Management experience is required.
Extensive experience in Operations Management is required. Knowledge of
the Public Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of Departmental
Legislations and Prescripts. Knowledge of the Constitution of South Africa.
Knowledge and understanding of Immigration Services Acts. Knowledge and
understanding of Civic Services Acts. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act and Regulations. A valid Driver's License. Willingness to
travel and work extended hours. Completion of the Senior Management
Services Pre-Entry Certificate upon appointment. Required skills and
competencies: Strategic Planning. Strategic Management. Service delivery
innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. Client orientation and
customer focus. People management and empowerment. Financial
management. Honesty and integrity. Program and project management.
Change management. Communication. Knowledge and information
management. Decision making. Presentation Skills. Problem solving and
analysis. Business Report Writing. Influencing and Networking. Planning and
Organising. Operations Management. Capacity Planning. Research
Methodology and Analysis. Policy Development. Diplomacy. Computer Skills
Business Continuity. Communication. Support digital transformation.
Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage operations of the Civic services in the District in
accordance with the service standards. Manage Civic Services operations on
the issuing of enabling documents (e.g. birth, marriages, and deaths, travel
documents, IDs / Smart Cards etc.). Identify external trends and patterns that
will impact the medium and long term footprint and channel development.
Manage the development of the footprint at Local Offices (small, medium and
large), Permanent Service Points, Thusong centres, Health Facilities and
mobile offices. Ensure the implementation of delivery against the mandates
derived from the Government’s Programme of Action (POA). Oversee the
security integrity of the national population register in the district as well as
ensure effective utilisation of all relevant Civic Services systems. Ensure the
accessibility of DHA services by the public and management of outreach
programmes. Provide inputs in the development of Civic Services strategies.
Oversee operations and activities of all Local offices to ensure they meet the
needs of the clients in line with the departmental service standards. Develop,
interpret and manage statistical information on service standards, throughout
times, bottlenecks, volumes and error rates. Ensure all processes are accurate
and efficient in the execution of operations. Drive consistency and uniformity
by enforcing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and creating uniformity
within DHA offices) that adhere to set requirements. Provide expert advice and
guidance on District Municipality on operational issues and matters. Serve as
a project leader within the District Municipality to ensure effective project
management implementation. Oversee the operations of Immigration Services
in the District /Metro Municipality accordance with service delivery standards.
Manage compliance in line with all legislation administered by the department
in the District / Metro Municipality. Provide executive support in the District.
Foster effective inter-governmental and stakeholder relations within the District
Municipality. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical
and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on compliance
with all regulatory requirements. Support digital transformation.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr J Modipa Tel No: (012) 406 4243
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/46 : LOCAL OFFICE MANAGER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 101 468 - R1 297 476 per annum (Level 12)
CENTRE : George: Western Cape Ref No: HRMC 27/26/3a (X1 Post)
Paarl: Western Cape Ref No: HRMC 27/26/3b (X1 Post)
Witbank: Mpumalanga Ref No: HRMC 27/26/3c (X1 Post)
38
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Management, Public Administration,
Operations, Business Management, Management, Administration, Law or
Social Science within these specified fields of study at NQF level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. 3 Years’ experience at a Junior Management / Assistant
Director level in Operations in a client or customer services environment.
Experience in Civic or Immigration Operations will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of South African Constitution. Knowledge and understanding of all
relevant public service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as
Government Structures. Excellent abilities and experience in project
management, project optimization and use of online systems. Knowledge of
National Treasury Regulations and Public Finance Management Act.
Knowledge of Human Resources Regulatory Framework and Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Knowledge of South African Constitution. Knowledge of
workflow and capacity planning. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles.
Knowledge of Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS), Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act (PAJA) and Promotion of Access to Information Act
(PAIA). A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours.
Required skills and competencies: Strong Management and Leadership
capability. Service delivery innovation, client orientation and customer focus.
People management and empowerment. Financial Management. Program and
project management. Change management. Ability to instill appropriate
processes and systems, as well as enabling technology, to support the
Department in efficiently and effectively managing the required work. Support
digital transformation. Excellent verbal and written communication, as well as
report writing and presentation skills. Problem-solving and analysis. Policy
interpretation. Risk Management. Influencing, networking, conflict
management and negotiation skills. Knowledge and Information management.
Decision making and initiating action. Planning, organising and time
management. Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage the overall operations and performance of the Office
against agreed service delivery standards. Provide advice and guidance on
operations of the Department at a Local Office level. Manage the provision of
safe and secure enabling documents as it relates to citizenship, births,
marriages, death, travel documents and passports. Ensure delivery against the
mandates derived from the Government’s Programme of Action (POA). Ensure
effective management and oversight of the Local Office’s Immigration
Inspectorate activities. Foster effective partnerships with all stakeholders and
represent the Office at various forums. Ensure the effective implementation of
strategic objectives and innovation (digital transformation and case
management solutions) in the Local Office. Coordinate and monitor delivery of
the Local Office’s operational plan against agreed timeframes and objectives.
Implement governance processes, frameworks, policies, procedures and
manage risks. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical
and financial resources within the Local Office. Coach and guide staff on
compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape: Mr M Pienaar Tel No: (021) 488 1409
Mpumalanga: Ms N Dlangisa Tel No: (013) 752 2504
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:
Western Cape: Physical Address: 4th Floor Fair Cape Building, 56 Barrack
Street, Cape Town, 8000.
Mpumalanga: Physical Address: 29 Bester Street, Nelspruit, 1200
POST 17/47 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (X3
POSTS)
This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply.
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Manager’s Office: Limpopo Ref No: HRMC 27/26/4a (X1 Post)
Provincial Manager’s Office: North-West Ref No: HRMC 27/26/4b (X1 Post)
Provincial Manager’s Office: Western Cape Ref No: HRMC 27/26/4c (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Supply Chain Management, Logistics
Management, Financial Management, Financial Accounting at NQF level 6 as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ supervisory experience in Supply
39
Chain and or Assets Management environment is required. Knowledge of the
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of
all relevant public service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well
as Government Structures. Sound knowledge and understanding of Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury regulations. Knowledge and
experience in budgeting and revenue management. Knowledge of task
planning and allocation. Knowledge of DPSA guidelines. A valid drivers’
license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Project Management. Knowledge Management. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Manpower forecasting and planning.
Knowledge Management. Decision Making. Change Management. Budget
and Financial Management. Written and communication skills. Research and
Learning. Presentation Skills. Problem Solving. Strong Analytical Skills. Report
Writing. Influencing and Networking. Planning and Organizing. Computer
literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Ensure effective management of assets within the
Province. Develop, Implement and monitor acquisition, maintenance and
disposal plans for assets. Ensure proper implementation of the Asset
management Strategy within the department. Oversee regular asset counts
and verify results against Asset Register. Coordinate physical verification of all
departmental assets. Monitor all movements of departmental assets and
record/update the asset register. Conduct inspections of equipment to identify
potential re-utilisation. Account for maintenance and depreciation of assets.
Verify the accuracy of the data recorded/updated in the asset register.
Reconcile differences between physical assets and asset register and prepare
reports. Monitor and participate in the implementation of efficient improvement
projects. Compile reports of identified obsolete, redundant and damaged
assets, transfer these items to suspense register. Co-ordinate inputs for the
Department’s Asset management Policy and advice line managers on asset
management. Provide Inputs on assets financials and reconciliations. Manage
acquisition, operation and maintenance of assets. Dispose of economically
obsolete assets according to the policies and recouping of asset value in
settling employee debt to the department. Facilitate bar-coding, stocktaking,
and verification of departmental assets. Manage budget allocation and
operational planning from assets management. Develop a strategic plan and
advise line managers on strategic planning for disposal and replacement of
asset. Develop acquisition plan in relation to asset management. Ensure
successful management of the properties in the province. Manage effective
operation of the property management unit. Facilitate the implementation of
transport services (fleet) in the province. Ensure effective risk and compliance
management within asset management unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Limpopo: Mr J Kgole Tel No: (015) 287 2802
North West: Mr L Appels Tel No: (018) 397 9908 / 9924 / 9922 / 9915
Western Cape: Mr M Pienaar Tel No: (021) 488 1409 / (021) 488 1412
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za
Limpopo: Physical Address: 89 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699
North-West: Physical Address: Cnr Sheppard and Carrington Street,
Mafikeng, 2745.
Western Cape: Physical Address: 4th Floor Fair Cape Building, 56 Barrack
Street, Cape Town, 8000.
POST 17/48 : CIVIC SERVICES OFFICER (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Free State: Large Office: Phuthatditjhaba Ref No: HRMC 27/26/5a (X2 Posts)
Gauteng: Large Office: Randfontein Ref No: HRMC 27/26/5b (X1 Post)
Kwazulu-Natal: Medium Office: Empangeni Ref No: HRMC 27/26/5c (X1 Post)
Limpopo: Medium Office: Phalaborwa Ref No: HRMC 27/26/5d (X1 Post)
Mpumalanga: Medium Office: Belfast Ref No: HRMC 27/26/5e (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Management, Public Administration,
Operations, Business Management, Management, Administration, Law or
Social Science within these specified fields at NQF level 6 recognized by
SAQA. 1 Year experience in Operations, client or customer services
environment. Knowledge of front office operations. Extensive knowledge of
40
various filing systems. Knowledge of fingerprint verification. Knowledge and
Understanding of Civic Services Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the
Public Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of Supply Chain
Management process and procedures. A valid Driver's License. Willingness to
travel and work extended hours. Overtime may be required on request
occasionally. Weekend working may be required on request occasionally.
Required skills and competencies: Computer literacy. Analytic thinking.
Planning and organizing. Problem solving. Problem solving. Verbal and written
communication. Financial administration. Planning and skills, Interpersonal
Attention to detail. Clerical and administration. Professionalism. Compassion.
Conscientious. Patriotic, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Supervise the effective daily operations of civic services of
offices. Ensure effective service delivery and assist staff where service
standard are not met. Produce quality reports regarding turnaround times
(documents processed and error rates). Implement quality assurance
measures to ensure quality of service delivery. Ensure safekeeping of
records/documentation according to DHA requirements. Allocate work to staff
members and monitor their progress against daily targets or goals. Perform
end of day duties to ensure effective reporting, identification of issues and
capturing of performance statistics. Identify challenges in operations (capacity,
training, bottlenecks) and make suggestions to Superiors. Identify trends and
take corrective action. Perform overriding functions on system. Ensure full
implementation of all relevant SOP’s. Implement incidental matters ensure that
the identity of illegal foreigner who are arrested, detained or convicted.
Supervise the application of ID smart cards, BMD Registration of Birth,
Marriages and Deaths, Late Registration, Rectification and Amendment of
particulars and issuing of Travel and Citizenship documents. Ensure effective
and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources within
the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Free State: Ms V Molefe Tel No: (051) 430 0378
Gauteng: Mr P Mlangeni Tel No: (011) 242 9039 / 066 478 4043
KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
Limpopo: Mr J Kgole Tel No: (015) 287 2802
Mpumalanga: Ms N Dlangisa Tel No: (013) 752 2504
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:
Free State: Physical Address: 41 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein,
9301.
Gauteng: Physical Address: 3rd Floor, Mineralia Building, Cnr De Beer and De
Korte Street.
KwaZulu-Natal: Physical address: 181 Church Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3209.
Limpopo: Physical Address: 89 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699.
Mpumalanga: Physical Address: 29 Bester Street, Nelspruit, 1200.
41
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process, the
selection committee will recommend candidates for a generic management
competency assessment, as per the Department of public Service and
Administration (DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’
managerial competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false
or fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Did not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right no to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/49 : DIRECTOR: SPATIAL PLANNING AND LAND USE MANAGEMENT
SERVICES REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/36
Directorate: Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : North West (Mmabatho)
42
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree in Town and Regional Planning / Urban
and Regional Planning / Geographical Information Science (GISc) (NQF Level
7) and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior
to appointment. Registration with South African Council for Planners
(SACPLAN) as a Profession Planner or with South African Geomatics Council
as a Professional Geomatics Professional: GISc. Minimum of 5 years’
experience at a middle / senior managerial level in a Town and Regional
Planning or GISc environment. Job related knowledge: An understanding of
the Public Service environment, Thorough knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and related Treasury Regulations, Understanding of
the South African economy with respect to industrial development, growth,
equity and empowerment. Sound understanding of the interconnectedness of
Government policies and strategies. Job related skills: Strong strategic
planning and leadership, Analytical, innovative, problem-solving and
interpersonal, Human resource management, Skilled negotiator and self-
confident decision maker, Good report writing, Excellent financial
management, A high level of computer literacy, Ability to communicate
effectively at all levels. A valid driver’s licence and willingness to travel both
locally and internationally.
DUTIES : Provide spatial planning, land use management and environmental services in
liaison with the national office. Monitor compliance with the provisions of
Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act (SPLUMA). Enforce
compliance with SPLUMA. Oversee Spatial Planning and Land Use
Management Interventions to ensure compliance. Ensure compliance with the
National Environmental Management Act. Provide spatial planning information
services in liaison with the national office. Enable provincial integrated spatial
information management systems. Provide Geographic Information Science
(GISc) technical support to municipalities. Facilitate the utilisation of GISc
technical tools to aid spatial planning. Provide support to the implementation
of Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act 16 of 2013 (SPLUMA).
Support municipalities in the utilisation of SPLUMA guidelines, toolsets,
systems and procedures. Support municipalities in setting up functional Land
Use Regulators. Provide technical support in the development of Provincial
Legislation, Land Use Schemes and Spatial Development Frameworks and
related Plans. Provide technical support to agriculture, rural development and
land reform programmes. Provide Spatial Analysis services, Provide GISc and
Mapping services. Provide GISc remote sensing and mobile application
services. Provide development planning support. Provide Intergovernmental
support and co-ordination. Coordinate Intergovernmental relations amongst
relevant stakeholders. Coordinate provincial Spatial Planning and Land Use
Management Services. Coordinate ad hoc engagements as required. Support
spatial integration of plans and programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Matsila Tel No: (012) 312 8013
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: Coner
James Moroka and Sekame Drive, West Gallery, Megacity, Mmabatho or by
email to Post36@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/50 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY (ICT) REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/35
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and National Diploma (NQF level 6) / Degree qualification in
Information Technology / Computer Science or related equivalent qualification.
Minimum of 3 years' experience at junior management level in ICT environment
relating to Local Area Network (LAN) and Wide Area Network (WAN), ICT
servers and applications, Network and Hardware support. Job related
knowledge: Government Systems Structure. A sound knowledge and
understanding of the South African ICT landscape and operations. Technical
expertise of ICT goods and services. ICT Acts and policies. Government
43
decision making processes. Internal control and risk management. Project
management principles and tools. Understanding and management of
information and formal reporting systems. Understanding and management of
information and data security systems. Job related skills: Planning and
organising skills. Interpersonal relations. Communication (verbal and written)
skills. Analytical skills. Advanced computer literacy. Problem solving skills.
Financial management. A valid driver's licence.
DUTIES : Provide Local Area Network (LAN) and Wide Area Network (WAN) support.
Check connectivity on transversal and business application systems. Report
on the functionality of the systems. Monitor systems reconnections. Manage,
assess and resolve network infrastructure connectivity (Switches, Routers and
Access Points (AP's). Receive new user creation forms from users and submit
for creation on departmental network. Provide feedback on new user creations.
Process and submit user network terminations as received from Human
Resource Management (HRM). Compile monthly Information Technology (IT)
reports. Manage and maintain ICT servers and applications. Monitor and
assess server environment and access control. Ensure server and connection
issues are assessed and resolved satisfactorily. Report and manage escalation
of server room issues for smooth resolutions. Facilitate, install and update of
ICT Application, eg, Antivirus, etc. Scan and clean computers for viruses. Scan
and remove unwanted / unapproved DLRRD applications. Setup, configure
and connection of IT applications. Manage and monitor Network and Hardware
support to business / users via ICT Call logging process. Attend and manage
user workstation ICT logged calls (allocation, resolution, resolution update) in
respect of hardware, software and network in context to the Service Level
Agreement (SLA) timelines. Generate call management reports. Review and
implement corrective actions on calls / processes. Participate in central ICT
projects of rolling out new initiatives in departmental offices across the
province. Conduct ICT business needs and equipment assessment report with
related recommendations on resolutions / specification. Supervise and
manage sub-Directorate. Manage the day-to-day operations of the IT unit.
Manage staff subordinates work allocation and leave. Ensure that calls are
resolved and closed within the stipulated SLA time frame. Manage Central
National Office / Provincial ICT projects and provide project status updates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Ledwaba Tel No: (012) 337 3657
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 524
Stanza Bopape and Steve Biko Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0001 or by email to
Post35@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured and
Indian Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 17/51 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/37
Directorate: Human Resource Strategy Planning and Systems
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate or relevant equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years’ experience
working in a human resource environment. Job related knowledge: Knowledge
of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, and operate
computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures
in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Job
related skills: Planning and organisation. Computer literacy language. Good
communication (verbal and written) skills. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility.
Teamwork.
DUTIES : Supervise and undertake the more complex implementation and maintenance
of human resource administration practices. Human resource provisioning
(recruitment and selection, appointments, transfer, verification of qualifications,
secretariat functions at interviews, absorptions, probationary periods etc.).
Implement conditions of service and service benefits (leave, housing, medical,
injury on duty, long service recognition, overtime, relocation, pension,
allowances etc.). Termination of service. Recommend (approve) transactions
on Personnel and Salary Administration system (PERSAL) according to
delegations. (final authorisation should happen on a higher level preferably at
Assistant Director or higher level). Performance management. Prepare reports
on human resource administration issues and statistics. Handle human
44
resource administration enquiries. Manage enquiries from internal and external
clients. Supervise human resources / staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work.
Personnel development. Apply discipline. Assess staff performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sebuthoma Tel No: (012) 312 9530
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post37@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured and Indian Males and Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 17/52 : SECRETARY REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/34
Directorate: Financial and Supply Chain Management Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job related knowledge: Computer literacy (Microsoft Word,
Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, etc.) Job related skills: Good telephone etiquette,
Sound organisational skills, Good people skills, Computer literacy, Language
skills and ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from
different backgrounds (both written and verbal), Ability to act with tact and
discretion.
DUTIES : Provide a secretariat / receptionist support service to the Director. Receive
telephone calls and refers the calls to the correct role players if not meant for
the relevant senior manager. Record appointments and events in the diary.
Types documents for the senior manager and other staff within the unit on a
word process. Operate office equipment e.g. computers and photocopiers.
Provide a clerical support service to the Senior Manager. Liaise with travel
agencies to make travel arrangements. Check arrangements when relevant
documents are received. Arrange meetings and events for the senior manager
and the staff in the unit. Identifies venues, invite role players, organise
refreshments and sets up schedules for meeting and events. Process the travel
and subsistence claims for the unit. Process all invoices that emanate from the
activities of the work of the senior manager. Records basic minutes of meetings
of the senior manager where required. Draft routine correspondence and
reports. Do filling of documents for the senior manager and the unit where
necessary. Administer matters like leave registers and telephonic accounts.
Receive, records and distributes all incoming and outgoing documents. Handle
the procurement of standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. Collects
all relevant documents to enable the Director to prepare for meetings. Remains
up to date with regard to prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to her
/ his work environment to ensure efficient and effective support to the senior
manager. Study the relevant public service and the departmental prescripts /
policies and other documents to ensure that the application thereof is
understood properly. Remain abreast with the procedures and process that
apply in the office of the senior manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Ledwaba Tel No: (012) 337 3657
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivered during office hours to: 524
Stanza Bopape and Steve Biko Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0001 or by email to
Post34@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Indian and White Females
and Persons with disabilities.
45
ANNEXURE H
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are
encouraged to apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and
the NPA Employment Equity Strategy 2022-2026, will take highest preference in selection of suitable
candidates.
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response E
mails stated below.
CLOSING DATE : 08 June 2026
NOTE : Applicants must apply by submitting applications on the most recent Z83 form
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a comprehensive CV only (with
detailed experience information). Failure to do so will result in your application
being disqualified. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on or before the
day of the interview following communication from Human Resources. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA
(only when shortlisted). It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign
qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation (only
when shortlisted). All applications must reach the NPA on/or before the closing
date. No late applications will be accepted/processed. Documents should not
be password protected, and ZIP files will be blocked. The NPA cannot be held
responsible for server delays. All applications must reach the NPA on/or before
the closing date. No late applications will be accepted/processed. The
applicant’s attention is drawn to the fact that the NPA uses an Electronic
Response Handling System in terms of e-mailed applications. Please do not
contact the NPA directly after you have e-mailed your applications to enquire if
your application(s) have been received. If you have not received an
acknowledgement of receipt within one week after the closing date, then you
can contact the NPA. The NPA reserves the right not to fill any particular
position. If you do not hear from us within (6) six months from the closing date
of the advert, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Successful
candidates will be subjected to a security clearance of at least confidential.
Appointment to this position will be provisional, pending the issue of security
clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the interview. The social
media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed as part of the
verification process. A valid driver’s license will be a requirement where
applicable. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments which are, a practical exercise and an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the NPA. Following the interview and technical exercise,
the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency-based assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will test generic managerial competencies using the mandated
DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. A Pre-Entry certificate obtained
from the National School of Government (NSG) is required for all SMS
applicants for Public Service Act positions in the NPA (SMS pre-entry certificate
to be submitted prior to appointment). NPA Act appointments are exempted
from the pre-entry certificate requirement. This is a Public Service specific
training programme. The name of the course is Certificate for entry into the
SMS. The full details can be sourced from the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/..
Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021 a new application form for
employment (Z83) is in use. The new application for employment form can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect (old) application for employment
(Z83), it will not be considered. NB! Applicants who are successful must please
note that the NPA is not in a position to pay resettlement costs.
ERRATUM: Deputy Director: Performance Information Management
(Bloemfontein) with Recruit 2026/91 advertised in Public Service Vacancy
Circular 11 dated 27 March 2026 is hereby withdrawn.
46
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/53 : DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/147
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Finance/Public
Administration/Management or relevant equivalent qualification. Nyukela
Certificate (Certificate for entry into the senior management service from the
National School of Government). At least five (5) years relevant experience at
middle/senior managerial level. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of
legislation and regulations pertaining to Public Service Administration.
Knowledge and understanding of PFMA Act. Basic Conditions of Employment
Act. Skills Development Act. Labour Relations Act. Ability to use PERSAL and
BAS. General computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs such as MS
Word, MS Excel, Ms outlook and MS PowerPoint. Good presentation skills.
Written and verbal communication skills. Research skills and interpersonal
skills. Good administration skills. People management and empowerment.
Strategic capability and leadership. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Problem solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Manage Finance and Supply Chain. Manage Human Resources. Manage
Information. Manage Security. Ensure the provision of general administration.
Provide administrative leadership on the finances of the unit through
developing the budget of the unit. Manage and monitor expenditure of the unit
and report as required. Ensure compliance of the unit with financial
management framework and applicable legislation and prescripts. Monitor
suppliers/vendor to ensure the development of an HR plan for the unit in
conjunction with the national HR plan. Manage and facilitation of skills
development plan. Ensure the compliance with the performance management
development system. Manage the provision of an effective HR administration
(leave and recruitment). Ensure the co-ordination of Employment Equity
Forum. Ensure effectiveness of document management system. Facilitate the
development of annual operational plans and strategy for the unit. Ensure the
overall compliance of the unit with all applicable legislation and policies. Ensure
the implementation of information and knowledge management.
ENQUIRIES : Katlego Phiri Tel No: (012) 845 6713
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026147@npa.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/54 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Pietermaritzburg Ref No: Recruit 2026/204 (Re-advert)
DDPP: Middelburg Ref No: Recruit 2026/143
DDPP: Durban Ref No: Recruit 2026/144
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Knowledge and experience in Strategic and Operations
Management. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Computer
skills. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director of Public Prosecutions. Manage,
train and guide Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all
matters, including complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest
court of appeal and the constitutional court. Investigate and prosecute cases.
Provide legal oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal
casework. Study case dockets and other documents relating to corruption
matters, criminal matters, make and review decisions with regard to the
47
institution of criminal proceedings. Prepare cases for court including the
acquisition of additional evidence and drafting charge sheets, indictments and
other court documents. Present the state’s case in court, including examination
and cross-examination of witnesses and addressing the court on conviction
and sentence. Study appeals and reviews, prepare opinions and heads of
argument and argue cases in the appropriate court. Appear in motion
applications pertaining to criminal matters. Map out strategic planning for the
division and lead staff members towards achieving the strategic objectives.
Oversee resources and align them to strategic objectives. Development,
performance management and assessment of staff members. Deal with
representations and complaints. Ensure that a high standard of professional
work is being carried out. Promote partner integration, community involvement
and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice
system.
ENQUIRIES : DPP: Pietermaritzburg & DDPP: Durban Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392
8753
DDPP: Middelburg Sello Dibakoane Tel No: (013) 045 0622
APPLICATIONS : DPP: Pietermaritzburg e mail: Recruit2026204@npa.gov.za
DDPP: Middelburg e mail: Recruit2026143@npa.gov.za
DDPP: Durban e mail: Recruit2026144@npa.gov.za
POST 17/55 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2026/145
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Pietermaritzburg (STU)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the
NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Extensive prosecutorial or
litigation experience regarding common law offences relating to tax
evasions/avoidance, commercial crimes, fraud and related matters. Good
advocacy and legal drafting skills. Strong organisational leadership skills.
Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to think strategically and
innovatively and management. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the Director. Manage, train and guide
Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect of all matters, including
complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the highest court of appeal and
the constitutional court. Investigate and prosecute cases. Provide legal
oversight and guidance in investigation projects and legal casework. Study
case dockets and other documents relating to corruption matters, criminal
matters, make and review decisions with regard to the institution of criminal
proceedings. Prepare cases for court including the acquisition of additional
evidence and drafting charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Present the state’s case in court, including examination and cross-examination
of witnesses and addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Study
appeals and reviews, prepare opinions and heads of argument and argue
cases in the appropriate court. Appear in motion applications pertaining to
criminal matters. Map out strategic planning for the division and lead staff
members towards achieving the strategic objectives. Oversee resources and
align them to strategic objectives. Development, performance management
and assessment of staff members. Deal with representations and complaints.
Ensure that a high standard of professional work is being carried out. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392 8753
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026145@npa.gov.za
POST 17/56 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2026/146
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Palm Ridge)
48
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Computer
skills. Able to work extended hours. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage the portfolio assigned by the SCCU Regional Head and the DPP.
Manage, train and guide Advocates, Prosecutors and stakeholders in respect
of all matters, including complex / high profile matters, in the high court, the
highest court of appeal and the Constitutional Court. Investigate and prosecute
cases. To provide high level and well researched opinions and reports to the
Regional Head of the SCCU. Provide legal oversight and guidance in
investigation projects and legal casework. Study case dockets and other
documents relating to corruption matters, criminal matters, make and review
decisions with regard to the institution of criminal proceedings. Prepare cases
for court including the acquisition of additional evidence and drafting charge
sheets, indictments and other court documents. Present the state’s case in
court, including examination and cross-examination of witnesses and
addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Study appeals and reviews,
prepare opinions and heads of argument and argue cases in the appropriate
court. Appear in motion applications pertaining to criminal matters. Map out
strategic planning for the division and lead staff members towards achieving
the strategic objectives. Oversee resources and align them to strategic
objectives. Development, performance management and assessment of staff
members. Deal with representations and complaints. Ensure that a high
standard of professional work is being carried out. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Charity Matika Tel No: (011) 220 4235
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026146@npa.gov.za
POST 17/57 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE (TRC) REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/148
National Prosecutions Service
Re-advert
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (Level LP 9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight years’ post qualification legal experience, in criminal
litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Proficiency in MS Word, Excel, and
PowerPoint is required. Experience with MS Teams and Power BI will be an
advantage. Ability to act independently without constant supervision. Must
have good administrative skills. Able to work under pressure, which may
involve long hours. Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills. Adaptability,
communication and teamwork are also required in respect of working with other
role-players. Knowledge and experience on TRC matters will be an added
advantage. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study the recommendations of the TRC (including relevant volumes of the TRC
and its final report, related articles, video clips and records and all exhibits and
documents handed in at the hearings, trials, inquests, proceedings), pertaining
to allocated TRC matters. Consider the recommendations of the TRC and
related matters. Provide guidance to dedicated TRC investigating officers.
Drafting documents pertaining to access to crime scenes, court documents,
documents and exhibits in possession of other state departments, universities,
non- governmental organisations and other assistance as may be required by
investigators. Conduct research, drafting of legal documents and attend to
representations arising out of TRC matters. Make legal decisions in
accordance with the law, policies and justice. Assist with the preparation of
charge sheets/indictments where applicable. Co-operate and engage with all
relevant stakeholders and colleagues pertaining to TRC matters. Make legal
decisions in accordance with the law, NPA prosecution policies and directives.
Also conduct research, prepare reports, and draft legal opinions, policies,
49
legislation, and other legal documents. Participate in and represent the NPA in
stakeholder engagements, meetings and projects. Monitor, analyse and report
on performance information and statistics. Assist with the development of
strategic, operational and implementation plans. Identify and resolve
challenges affecting the performance of the NPA.
ENQUIRIES : Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392 8753
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026148@npa.gov.za
POST 17/58 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (Level LP 9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Pietermaritzburg Ref No: Recruit 2026/149 (X4 Posts) (X3 Re-adverts)
DPP: Makhanda (Grahamstown) Ref No: Recruit 2026/150
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Five (5) years’
experience in legal practice will be an added advantage. Strong interpersonal
and communication skills. Decision making ability. Computer literacy and
knowledge of programs in MS Office. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare cases for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments and
court documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence. Attend to
representations, prepare opinions and head of arguments and argue cases in
appropriate court. Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal
matters and in general conduct prosecution on behalf of the state. Perform all
duties related thereto in accordance with the code of conduct policy and
directives of the NPA. Mentor and coach junior staff and quality check their
work. Participate in the performance assessment of staff being mentored.
ENQUIRIES : DPP: Pietermaritzburg Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392 8753
DPP: Makhanda (Grahamstown) Nomfuneko Ntapane Tel No: (046) 602 3000
APPLICATIONS : DPP: Pietermaritzburg e mail: Recruit2026149@npa.gov.za
DPP: Makhanda (Grahamstown) e mail: Recruit2026150@npa.gov.za
POST 17/59 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/151 (OCC)
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (Level LP 9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DDPP: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Knowledge of the
POCA legislation, willing to travel. Able to work extended hours. High level of
proficiency in prosecuting and presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience
in guiding criminal investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences. Interpersonal skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal
procedure. Good advocacy, well developed skills in legal research and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of asset forfeiture law will be an added advantage.
Strong computer skills and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, Outlook
and PowerPoint. Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work
independently.
DUTIES : Conduct prosecution of serious, complex and organised crime cases and
terrorism and terror financing matters. Advise the police on the investigation of
serious, complex organised crime cases and other matters. Conduct legal
research and keep up to date with legal developments. Draft charge sheets
and other court documents and represent the State in all courts. Draft heads
of arguments and argue appeals. Present cases in court, lead witnesses, cross
examine and address the court on conviction and sentence. Appear in motion
proceedings and also do appeals and reviews. Generally, conduct prosecution
on behalf of the State.
50
ENQUIRIES : Phiwayinkosi Nhlengethwa Tel No: (031) 334 5003
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026151@npa.gov.za
POST 17/60 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/152 (OCC)
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (Level LP 9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Five years’ experience in legal practice will be added
advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. High level of proficiency in prosecuting
and presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal
investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory offences.
Interpersonal skills. Knowledge of and or experience in the litigation of the
Prevention of Organised Crime Act (POCA) matters. Written and verbal
communication skills. Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, decide on the institution of prosecution and conduct
criminal proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court
documents. Represent the State in all courts. Mentor and coach junior staff and
quality check their work. Participate in the performance assessment of staff
being mentored.
ENQUIRIES : Phyllis Lujabe Tel No: (021) 487 7144
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026152@npa.gov.za
POST 17/61 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/153 (X2 POSTS)
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
Re-adverts
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (Level LP 9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Extensive
prosecutorial or litigation experience with regard to common law offences such
as fraud, theft, forgery and uttering, commercial crimes and related matters.
Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding investigations in complex or more difficult
matters, including commercial matters, drafting charge sheets, including
indictments and court documents, dealing with representations. Strong
interpersonal and communication skills. General computer proficiency and
knowledge of programs in MS Office. Well-developed skills in legal research
and legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure.
Knowledge of asset forfeiture law will be an added advantage. Good
interpersonal, analytical, organization and communication skills. Valid drivers’
licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Deal with any representations. Conduct prosecution of serious,
complex and organized commercial crime and corruption matters. Prepare
cases for court including the acquisition of additional evidence and drafting
charge sheets, indictments and other court documents. Present the state’s
case in court, including examination and cross-examination of witnesses and
addressing the court on conviction and sentence. Manage court and case flow
management independently. Study and deal with appeals and reviews. Advise
the police on the investigation of serious, complex and organized commercial
crime cases and corruption matters.
ENQUIRIES : Nicholas Mogongwa Tel No: (043) 807 4539
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026153@npa.gov.za
POST 17/62 : SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (CM-1), (total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: George Ref No: Recruit 2026/154
51
CPP: Wynberg Ref No: Recruit 2026/155
CPP: Bellville (Malmesbury) Ref No: Recruit 2026/156
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience. Five
(5) years’ experience in legal practice will be an added advantage.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Manage, give
guidance to and train prosecutors. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding
investigations and giving instructions in reasonably complex or more difficult
common law and statutory offences. Able to draft charge sheets and complex
court documents. Ability to act independently without constant supervision.
Must have good administrative skills.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise allocation of work and management of performance for
lower-level prosecutors including trainee Prosecutor. Train and guide
Prosecutors including trainee Prosecutors and stakeholders in preparation of
case dockets and deciding on the institution and conduct criminal proceedings.
Represent the State in all courts. Present and assist prosecutors including
trainee Prosecutors in presentation of state’s case court, lead and cross
examination of witnesses and address court on inter alia conviction and the
like. Attend to representations and complaints. Attend to instructions of the
Chief Prosecutor and the Director of Public Prosecutions. Lead Prosecutors
towards achieving strategic goals and operational targets set by NPA, DPP
office and CPP. Perform all duties including administrative duties related
thereto, in accordance with code of conduct, policy directives of NPA. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: George & CPP: Wynberg Thuso Damane Tel No: (021) 487 7129
CPP: Bellville - (Malmesbury) Sonwabiso Mkwakwi Tel No: (021) 487 7234
APPLICATIONS : CPP: George e mail: Recruit2026154@npa.gov.za
CPP: Wynberg e mail: Recruit2026155@npa.gov.za
CPP: Bellville (Malmesbury) e mail: Recruit2026156@npa.gov.za
POST 17/63 : SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR (COMMUNITY PROSECUTION) REF NO:
RECRUIT 2026/157
National Prosecution Service
Re-advert.
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (Level LP 9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Kimberley (Upington)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification litigation experience.
Demonstrate required competency in: Acting Independently, Professionally, be
Accountable and act with Credibility. Knowledge of legislation and regulations
pertaining to the public service specifically: The Constitution; Criminal
Procedure Act; Public Service Act, relevant Regulations and other related
Legislation. General management skills. Strategic management and
stakeholder engagement expertise. People management and empowerment
skills. Good communication skills. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Problem solving and decision making. Project management. Excellent
administrative skills and report writing skills. Service delivery and innovation
skills. Negotiation skills. Policy analysis and development of policy. Research,
presentation, and facilitation skills. Must be able to travel in the DPP-division
and nationally. Positive security clearance. Valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Develop local crime prevention initiatives and strategies in line with the
Community Prosecution Initiative (CPI). Contribute to crime prevention and
community justice through this initiative. Analyse local crime trends and
dynamics of crime and insecurities of communities in respective DPP-divisions.
Organize, execute, and participate in community prosecution events and
meetings locally, provincially and nationally. Build strategic partnerships for
local crime prevention initiatives. Develop effective and efficient working
relationships with internal and external stakeholders including current NPA
Community Prosecution colleagues. Expand and increase the impact of the
current CPI footprint in the division and nationally as a whole. Provide and
promote education about the law to targeted groups within this initiative.
Promote effective collaboration, interaction and cultivate partnerships with- and
between stakeholders. Apply Batho Pele principles, Service Charter- and NPA
processes. Participate, contribute, and represent the NPA at interdepartmental,
52
local government, divisional and national structures. To monitor and evaluate
statistical data and performance of initiatives implemented in the division where
appointed. To develop and implement interventions in the divisions in line with
the analysis of the statistical data. To provide feedback and the submission of
reports (as determined by the National Coordinator at Head Office), regarding
the identification of initiatives, the implementation thereof, progress and
management of all related activities and initiatives in respective divisions, to
both the DPP and the Office of the National Head Office Coordinator.
Furthermore, it will be expected of the incumbent to also perform prosecutorial
related duties such as prosecutor-guided investigations, the management of
dockets, court and case management and the actual prosecution of related
cases when required.
ENQUIRIES : Nicholas Mogongwa Tel No: (053) 807 4539
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026157@npa.gov.za
POST 17/64 : SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR (COMMUNITY PROSECUTION) REF NO:
RECRUIT 2026/158
National Prosecution Service
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (Level LP 9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification litigation experience.
Demonstrate required competency in: Acting Independently, Professionally, be
Accountable and act with Credibility. Knowledge of legislation and regulations
pertaining to the public service specifically: The Constitution; Criminal
Procedure Act; Public Service Act, relevant Regulations and other related
Legislation. General management skills. Strategic management and
stakeholder engagement expertise. People management and empowerment
skills. Good communication skills. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Problem solving and decision making. Project management. Excellent
administrative skills and report writing skills. Service delivery and innovation
skills. Negotiation skills. Policy analysis and development of policy. Research,
presentation, and facilitation skills. Must be able to travel in the DPP-division
and nationally. Positive security clearance. Valid driver’s license is essential.
DUTIES : Develop local crime prevention initiatives and strategies in line with the
Community Prosecution Initiative (CPI). Contribute to crime prevention and
community justice through this initiative. Analyse local crime trends and
dynamics of crime and insecurities of communities in respective DPP-divisions.
Organize, execute, and participate in community prosecution events and
meetings locally, provincially and nationally. Build strategic partnerships for
local crime prevention initiatives. Develop effective and efficient working
relationships with internal and external stakeholders including current NPA
Community Prosecution colleagues. Expand and increase the impact of the
current CPI footprint in the division and nationally as a whole. Provide and
promote education about the law to targeted groups within this initiative.
Promote effective collaboration, interaction and cultivate partnerships with- and
between stakeholders. Apply Batho Pele principles, Service Charter- and NPA
processes. Participate, contribute, and represent the NPA at interdepartmental,
local government, divisional and national structures. To monitor and evaluate
statistical data and performance of initiatives implemented in the division where
appointed. To develop and implement interventions in the divisions in line with
the analysis of the statistical data. To provide feedback and the submission of
reports (as determined by the National Coordinator at Head Office), regarding
the identification of initiatives, the implementation thereof, progress and
management of all related activities and initiatives in respective divisions, to
both the DPP and the Office of the National Head Office Coordinator.
Furthermore, it will be expected of the incumbent to also perform prosecutorial
related duties such as prosecutor-guided investigations, the management of
dockets, court and case management and the actual prosecution of related
cases when required. The incumbent may also, for a defined period or in an
acting capacity, be assigned the responsibilities of a Senior Public Prosecutor
at a particular court centre.
ENQUIRIES : Phyllis Lujabe Tel No: (021) 487 7281
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026158@npa.gov.za
53
POST 17/65 : SENIOR DIGITAL FORENSIC ANALYST REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/159
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (MMS Level 12), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) Advanced Diploma (NQF level 7) / B-
tech qualification in policing, law, forensics, computer science, data and
physical science; software engineering or equivalent. At least five(5) years’
experience of which three (3) years should be in a junior level in criminal and/or
forensic investigations environment in a legal/investigative or financial
environment. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Vocational training in criminal
investigations specialised courses. Certification in either Cellebrite, FTK,
Oxygen or any forensic tools. Experience in testifying on criminal matters in at
least the Regional Court. (Persons that have been found as an unreliable
witness in any court would not be considered). Experience in managing and
directing forensic service providers in criminal and forensic matters. Strategic
capability and leadership, administration skills, communication, planning and
prioritising, customer focused and responsiveness, problem solving and
decision making. Knowledge of legislation and regulations pertaining to public
service administration, specifically: The Constitution of South Africa and the
rights of suspects, the criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1977, Investigation of
common law offences as it pertains to fraud, forgery, uttering, theft, and offence
involving dishonesty. Understanding of law of evidence in civil matters.
Knowledge and experience of a wide range of computer/digital/devices/
cellular phones, software/operating systems, Knowledge of database
structures and configuration for formats such as SQL, SQLite, ESE, plist and
MXL. Experience in at least EnCase, Cellebrite and XRY. Valid drivers’ license.
DUTIES : Manage/ recover evidential data from computers, mobile devices, CCTV
systems, servers, emails, cloud storage and other electronic devices with the
standing Cyber Crime Act, and ISO17025 accredited investigative techniques.
Manage the conducting of quality digital forensic examination in relation to all
investigations on hand at IDAC within a multi-disciplinary project team
approach. Manage the development, maintenance and implementation of
policies, standards, procedures and guidelines on digital forensic and related
matters. Provide operational leadership and guidance with regards to overall
conducting of digital forensics, handling, and safekeeping of electronic devices.
Manage the planning and implementation for expert services regarding digital
forensic examination and research. Manage/compile investigation report.
Ensure that appropriate security and access control of forensic tools, system
and evidence are maintained at all times. Guide expert testimony in court
relevant to the investigations. Testify on the data extracted from the devices.
Manage and develop staff
ENQUIRIES : Maureen Dibetle Tel No: (012) 845 7727
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026159@npa.gov.za
POST 17/66 : DEPUTY CHIEF PROTECTOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/160
Office of Witness Protection
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (MMS Level 12), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Johannesburg)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Policing or equivalent. Must have at least six (6) years’ experience in the field
of the post. Must have police, military, or correctional service basic training.
Must have successfully completed a VIP and/or Close Protection course.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. High level of understanding of and
competency in people protection. Knowledge and experience of undercover
work. Must be competent in at least two (2) official languages of which one
must be English. Must be prepared to be available 24/7 and travel extensively,
even after-hours. Know how to account for public funds according to the PFMA.
Knowledge of Asset Management in the Public service, Knowledge of the
Constitution and Bill of Rights, National Crime Prevention Strategy, Victims
Charter, and Batho Pele Principles. Sound knowledge the Witness Protection
Act, 1998, Firearm control Act and Criminal Procedure Act, 1977. Sound
knowledge of the Public Service Act and Regulations, the PFMA, 1999 and
54
Treasury Regulations. Sound knowledge of the Minimum-Security Information
Standards (MISS). Must be prepared to undergo a Top-Secret security
clearance, a regular polygraph and voice stress analysis test. Strategic
capability and leadership. General management skills. People management
and empowerment. Administration skills. Good communication skills. Planning
and Prioritizing. Customer Focus and Responsiveness. Problem solving and
decision making. Candidate will be subjected to a competency assessment
which can include report writing, fire-arm competency, advance driving, and
fitness assessment. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage admissions of vulnerable and intimidated witnesses and related
persons. Manage and coordinate the protection of witnesses and related
persons and contribute to their safety. Ensure that operations are conducted in
line with the OWP mandate. Ensure effective and efficient utilization of
resources and good governance. Provide sound stakeholder relationships.
ENQUIRIES : MF Modisane Tel No: (012) 845 5604
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026160@npa.gov.za
POST 17/67 : REGIONAL COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 074 222 - R1 742 772 per annum (Level SU-3), (total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Ntuzuma (KwaDukuza) Ref No: Recruit 2026/161
CPP: George (Mossel Bay) Ref No: Recruit 2026/162
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least six (6) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Must have the
ability to act independently or within minimum supervision. Proficiency in
prosecuting, guiding investigation and giving instructions in complex or more
difficult common law and statutory offences in Regional and District Court. Draft
complex charge sheets and complex court documents. Good management
skills. Must manage, give guidance and train prosecutors. A valid driver's
license.
DUTIES : Manage, train and give guidance to and train prosecutors. Study case dockets,
decide on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Maintenance
matters and inquest of a general and more advanced nature in the Regional
and District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft charge sheets and other
proceedings for court. Present and assist prosecutors to present the State’s
case in court, to lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on inter
alia, conviction and sentence, and in general to conduct prosecutions on behalf
of the State. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the code of
conduct, policy and directives of the NPA. Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor
with the performance assessment of staff. Perform general administrative
duties of the office. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Ntuzuma (KwaDukuza) Phiwayinkosi Nhlengethwa Tel No: (031) 334
5003
CPP: George (Mossel Bay) Thuso Damane Tel No: (021) 487 7129
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Ntuzuma (KwaDukuza) e mail: Recruit2026161@npa.gov.za
CPP: George (Mossel Bay) e mail: Recruit2026162@npa.gov.za
POST 17/68 : HEAD CONTROL PROSECUTOR 3 REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/168
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 074 222 - R1 742 772 per annum (Level SU- 3), (total cost package),
(excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Mitchells Plain (Caledon)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least six (6) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding
investigation and giving instructions in reasonably complex or more difficult
common law and statutory offences in the lower courts. Proficiently drafting
complex charge sheets and other complex court documents. Must be able to
act independently without constant supervision and manage court and case
flow independently. Good management and administrative skills. General
computer literacy with excellent knowledge of Ms Word, PowerPoint, Excel ad
55
Outlook ECMS system. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and
discretion. Ability to identify and handle confidential matters. Knowledge of
relevant legislations, policies, prescripts and procedures applicable in the
public sector. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Manage, train, and give guidance to prosecutors. Study case dockets, decide
on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Maintenance matters
and inquest of a general and more advanced nature in the Regional Court and
District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft charge sheets and other
proceedings for court, present and assist prosecutors to present the State’s
case in court, to lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on inter-
alia, conviction, and sentence, and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the State. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives of the National Prosecuting Authority.
Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor with the performance assessment of staff.
Manage, control and attend to the administration of the office of the District
Court and Regional Court. Promote partner integration, community
involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the
criminal justice.
ENQUIRIES : Thuso Damane Tel No: (021) 487 7129
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026168@npa.gov.za
POST 17/69 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/163
Specialized Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R970 221 - R1 600 893 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DDPP: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding
investigations; drafting charge sheets, indictments and court documents,
dealing with representations. Well – developed skills in legal research and legal
drafting. Interpersonal skills, Written and verbal communication skills.
Administrative skills. Computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS
Office. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, make assessments thereof and decide on the institution
of prosecution. Deal with any representations. Guide investigations in complex
or more difficult tax matters, including commercial matters. Prepare cases for
court, including the acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets,
indictments, and court documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and
cross examine witnesses, address the court on inter alia, conviction and
sentence. Manage court and case flow management of cases independently.
Study and deal with appeals and reviews. Prepare opinions and heads of
argument for complex matters and argue cases in the appropriate court.
Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal matters and general
conduct prosecutions on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto
in accordance with the code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA.
Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction
in conjunction with partners in criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Bongiwe Mlaba Tel No: (031) 335 6617
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026163@npa.gov.za
POST 17/70 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/164 (X4 POSTS)
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
(X3 Re-advert)
SALARY : R970 221 - R1 600 893 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Well-developed skills in legal research and
legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Proficiency
in prosecution, competency in guiding investigations, drafting charge sheets,
indictments and court documents and dealing with representations. Persons in
56
private practice must provide a certificate of good standing with the LPC. Good
interpersonal, analytical, organisational and communication skills. Ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence, lead and cross examine witnesses, address
the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Study and deal with appeals
and reviews, attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of
arguments. Conduct prosecution of serious, complex and organised
commercial crime and corruption matters. Appear in court in motion
applications pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution
on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Nicholas Mogongwa Tel No: (053) 807 4539
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026164@npa.gov.za
POST 17/71 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/165 (X2 POSTS)
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R970 221 - R1 600 893 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Makhanda (Grahamstown)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Well-developed skills in legal research and
legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Proficiency
in prosecution, competency in guiding investigations, drafting charge sheets,
indictments and court documents and dealing with representations. Knowledge
of and skills in general prosecution. High level of proficiency in prosecuting and
presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal investigations
and giving instructions in law and statutory offences. Interpersonal skills.
Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work independently with
minimum supervision.
DUTIES : Study and guide the investigations in case dockets. Decide on the institution of
and conduct criminal proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other
court documents. Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court,
including the acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets and
indictments. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence, study
appeal and reviews. Attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of
arguments and argue cases in the appropriate court. Appear in court in motion
application pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution
on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Nomfuneko Ntapane Tel No: (046) 602 3000
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026165@npa.gov.za
POST 17/72 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/166 (OCC)
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R970 221 - R1 600 893 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. At least six years’ post qualification legal
experience. High level of proficiency in prosecuting and presenting/arguing
cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal investigations and giving
instructions in law and statutory offences. Interpersonal skills. Knowledge of
and or experience in the litigation of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act
57
(POCA) matters. Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work
independently. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study and guide the investigations in case dockets. Decide on the institution of
and conduct criminal proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other
court documents. Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court,
including the acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets and
indictments. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence, study
appeal and reviews. Attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of
arguments and argue cases in the appropriate court. Appear in court in motion
application pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution
on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Phyllis Lujabe Tel No: (021) 487 7281
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026166@npa.gov.za
POST 17/73 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/167 (X2 POSTS)
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R970 221 - R1 600 893 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience. At
least five (5) years in legal practice will be an added advantage. Financial or
accounting background an advantage. Experience in litigation offences in
terms of POCA, Companies Act, PRECCA, PFMA and FICA necessary.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Extensive prosecutorial or litigation
experience with regard to common law offences such as fraud, theft, forgery
and uttering, commercial crimes and related matters. Proficiency in
prosecuting, guiding investigations in complex or more difficult matters,
including commercial matters. Drafting charge sheets, indictments and court
documents, dealing with representations. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, make assessments thereof and decide on the institution
of prosecution. Deal with any representations. Guide investigations in complex
or more difficult tax matters, including commercial matters. Prosecutor led
investigations (PLI). Prepare cases for court, including the acquisition of
additional evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments and court documents.
Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine witnesses, address
the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence. Manage court and case flow
management of cases independently. Study and deal with appeals and
reviews. Prepare opinions and heads of argument for complex matters and
argue cases in the appropriate court. Appear in court in motion application
pertaining to criminal matters and general conduct prosecutions on behalf of
the state. Mentor and guide investigating officers, prosecutors and
stakeholders. Assist in high profile matters or matters where an increased risk
element is present. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in criminal justice system
independently without supervision and manage court and case flow
management independently.
ENQUIRIES : Matodzi Makhari Tel No: (012) 845 6012
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026167@npa.gov.za
POST 17/74 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO: RECRUIT
2026/169
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: ISM
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Archives/Records Management/ Library and information Science or equivalent
qualification. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in an Assistant Director
level. Five (5) years’ experience in the field of Electronics Records
Management. Strong knowledge of the National Archives Act and Records
58
Management standards. Knowledge and understanding of legislative
framework. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent interpersonal communication skills
(verbal and written). Excellent report-written skills and the ability to write high-
level reports to management. Good knowledge of government legislature
framework prescripts, policies and practices Advance computer literacy skills
in Microsoft office application, such as MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint. Ability
to work independently and well under pressure. Willing to travel. Ability to work
well in a team. Problem solving skills. Good interpersonal and customer
relations skills.
DUTIES : Advise, develop and implement the Departmental Records policy and
procedures. Ensure that records are well managed and controlled in line with
the requirements of the National Archives and Records Management policies.
Report all additions and amendments on the File Plan to the National Archives.
Liaise with the National Archives to get the File Plan approved. Provide
administrative support on the handling of NPA records. Standardize records
management sources throughout the organization. Manage records and
storage components to determine retention periods of records. Develop,
implement and maintain the overall records management service. Manage the
provision of information sessions throughout the NPA on the correct use of
registries in terms of the National Archives Act. Conduct physical periodical
inspections and spot checks to ensure compliance. Manage the special
auditing, quality assurance processes and requests. Manage human and other
resources with the sub-directorate. Monitor staff performance, training and
development. Identify and advise on effective Electronic Document and
Records Management Systems (EDRMS) in support of the information
management strategy. Compile monthly reports on regional performance.
ENQUIRIES : Nozuko Mdingi Tel No: (012) 845 6868
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026169@npa.gov.za
POST 17/75 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/170
Strategy Operations and Compliance: Strategy Management Office
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Advanced Diploma (NQF 7) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) in
management/social sciences or equivalent. Minimum three (3) years’
experience in the strategic planning/performance monitoring or relevant
experience. Certificate in Strategic Management / Monitoring and Evaluation
or Operations Management from accredited institution will be an added
advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. An ability to effectively and timely coordinate
the submission of all organisational performance information reports on a
regional level. Knowledge of the prosecutorial environment or sound
knowledge on the Criminal Justice System (CJS) will be an added advantage.
Excellent interpersonal communication skills (verbal and written). Excellent
report-written skills and the ability to write high-level reports to management.
Good knowledge of government legislature framework prescripts, policies and
practices. Good knowledge of performance information management practices
and prescripts in the government sector. Knowledge of the applicable
Legislative and Regulatory Framework (e.g Government Planning and
Reporting Legislation and Cycle, Framework for Strategic Plans and Annual
Performance Plans from the National Treasury 2010, Guideline for the
preparation of the Annual Report). Good knowledge on compliance
requirement for the performance information management field. Advance
computer literacy skills in Microsoft office application, such as MS Word, Excel
and PowerPoint. Ability to work independently and well under pressure. Ability
to work well in a team. Problem solving skills. Good interpersonal and customer
relations skills. Willing to travel, able to work extended hours. A valid driver's
license.
DUTIES : Manage business unit and regional performance information. Facilitate
operational planning sessions and regional review sessions. Monitoring and
evaluation of the business unit and regional performance plans. Monitoring of
the execution of the regional operational plans. Collation, analysis and
interpretation of organisational performance information. Keep up to date with
59
compliance requirements and best practice in the field of performance
information management. Risk management.
ENQUIRIES : Sophy Seema Tel No: (012) 845 6303
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026170@npa.gov.za
POST 17/76 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SCM RISK AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/171
Strategy Operations and Compliance: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Advanced Diploma (NQF 7) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) in
management/social sciences or equivalent. Minimum of three (3) years SCM
experience and minimum of two (2) year management experience. Sound
knowledge of PFMA, PPPFA, Supply Chain Management Framework and all
relevant SCM practice note and regulation Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Reliable,
integrity, tolerant and determined. Able to act independently. Willing to travel,
able to work extended hours and under pressure. Excellent communication and
administrative skills. Valid driver’s license, strong organisational ad leadership
skill, analysis and problem solving, report writing, able to plan and organise
work. General computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS Word,
Excel, Outlook, Power Point and understanding of the following system
applications BAS and LOGIS. Able to draft submissions, Able to perform
calculations and basic understanding of business finance. Managing the
acquisition process independently and attending to general controls in the
bidding process. Able to do performance management of staff, ability to offer
direction and leadership to a team of staff.
DUTIES : SCM risk management. Prevention of fraud and SCM system abuse.
Implement and review of relevant policies and procedures. Manage and
undertake performance assessment of the value chain of SCM functions.
Serve as appoint of contact between SCM Unit and Bid Committees. Manage
the performance of staff in line with the Performance Management System and
policies. Produce and submit monthly reports. Provide advisory support to all
NPA business units on SCM matters. Provide advisory ad support to the
Director and Chief Director. Manage supplier performance. Manage
performance of SCM systems including transversal systems. Develop and
manage operational plan for the sub-directorate
ENQUIRIES : Tebogo Sethabela Tel No: (012) 845 6014
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026171@npa.gov.za
POST 17/77 : HEAD CONTROL PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R655 854 - R1 508 337 per annum (Level SU-1 to SU-2), (total cost package),
(excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Pietermaritzburg (New Hanover) Ref No: Recruit 2026/172 (Re-advert)
CPP: George (Riversdale) Ref No: Recruit 2026/173
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding
investigation and giving instructions in reasonably complex or more difficult
common law and statutory offences in the lower courts. Proficiently drafting
complex charge sheets and other complex court documents. Must be able to
act independently without constant supervision and manage court and case
flow independently. Good management and administrative skills. General
computer literacy with excellent knowledge of Ms Word, PowerPoint, Excel ad
Outlook. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to
identify and handle confidential matters. Knowledge of relevant legislations,
policies, prescripts and procedures applicable in the public sector.
DUTIES : Manage, train, and give guidance to prosecutors. Study case dockets, decide
on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Maintenance matters
and inquest of a general and more advanced nature in the Regional Court and
District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft charge sheets and other
proceedings for court, present and assist prosecutors to present the State’s
case in court, to lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on inter-
60
alia, conviction, and sentence, and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the State. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives of the National Prosecuting Authority.
Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor with the performance assessment of staff.
Manage, control and attend to the administration of the office of the District
Court. Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer
satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Pietermaritzburg (New Hanover) Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392
8753
CPP: George (Riversdale) Thuso Damane Tel No: (021) 487 7129
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Pietermaritzburg (New Hanover) e mail: Recruit2026172@npa.gov.za
CPP: George (Riversdale) e mail: Recruit2026173@npa.gov.za
POST 17/78 : DISTRICT COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/174
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R655 854 - R1 508 337 per annum (Level SU-1 to SU-2), (total cost package),
(excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Wynberg (Worcester)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently. Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Proficiency in
prosecuting, guiding investigations and giving instructions in reasonably
complex or more difficult common law and statutory offenses in the District
Court. Ability to draft charge sheets and complex court documents. Good
administration skills. Good management skills. Organisational skills. Ability to
work independently. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage, train and give guidance to Prosecutors. Study court dockets and
decide on the institution of and conduct criminal, proceedings of a general and
more advanced nature in both District and Regional Court. Prepare cases for
court and draft charge sheets and other proceedings for the court. Present and
assist Prosecutors to present the State’s case in court, to lead witness, cross-
examine and address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence and in
general conduct prosecutions on behalf of the State. Perform all duties related
thereof in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy and Directives of the
National Prosecuting Authority. Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor with the
performance assessment of staff. Perform general administrative duties of the
office. Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer
satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Thuso Damane Tel No: (021) 487 7129
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026174@npa.gov.za
POST 17/79 : REGIONAL COURT PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R655 854 - R1 508 337 per annum (Level LP-5 to LP-6), (total cost package),
(excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Bellville Ref No: Recruit 2026/175
CPP: Bellville (Blue Downs) Ref No: Recruit 2026/176 (X2 Posts)
CPP: Mitchells Plain (Hermanus) Ref No: Recruit 2026/177
CPP: Mitchells Plain (Somerset West) Ref No: Recruit 2026/178
CPP: Cape Town (Goodwood) Ref No: Recruit 2026/179
CPP: Empangeni Ref No: Recruit 2026/180
CPP: Wynberg (Worcester) Ref No: Recruit 2026/181
CPP: Bellville (Vredenburg) Ref No: Recruit 2026/182 (Re - advert)
CPP George (Swellendam) Ref No: Recruit 2026/183
CPP: Wynberg (Paarl) Ref No: Recruit 2026/184
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting.
Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences in regional court. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills.
Good presentation skills. Good project management skills. Valid driver’s
licence.
61
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court on
inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Bellville; CPP: Bellville (Blue Downs); CPP: Mitchells Plain (Hermanus)
& CPP: Mitchells Plain (Somerset West) & CPP: Bellville (Vredenburg)
Sonwabo Mkwakwi Tel No: (021) 487 7234
CPP: Cape Town (Goodwood) Phyllis Lujabe Tel No: (021) 487 7281
CPP: Empangeni Thabsile Radebe Tel No: (033) 392 8753
CPP: Wynberg (Worcester); CPP George (Swellendam) & CPP: Wynberg
(Paarl) Thuso Damane Tel No: (021) 487 7129
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Bellville e-mail: Recruit2026175@npa.gov.za
CPP: Bellville (Blue Downs) e-mail: Recruit2026176@npa.gov.za
CPP: Mitchells Plain (Hermanus) e-mail: Recruit2026177@npa.gov.za
CPP: Mitchells Plain (Somerset West) e-mail: Recruit2026178@npa.gov.za
CPP: Cape Town (Goodwood) e-mail: Recruit2026179@npa.gov.za
CPP: Empangeni e-mail: Recruit2026180@npa.gov.za
CPP: Wynberg (Worcester) e-mail: Recruit2026181@npa.gov.za
CPP: Bellville (Vredenburg) e-mail: Recruit2026182@npa.gov.za
CPP George (Swellendam) e-mail: Recruit2026183@npa.gov.za
CPP: Wynberg (Paarl) e-mail: Recruit2026184@npa.gov.za
POST 17/80 : REGIONAL COURT PROSECUTOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/185
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R655 854 - R1 508 337 per annum (Level LP-5 to LP-6), (total cost package),
(excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DPP: Cape Town (OCC)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting.
Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences in regional court. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills.
Good presentation skills. Good project management skills. Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court on
inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : Phyllis Lujabe Tel No: (021) 487 7281
APPLICATIONS : e-mail: Recruit2026185@npa.gov.za
POST 17/81 : FINANCIAL INVESTIGATOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/186 (X2 POSTS)
Investigative Directorate Against Corruption
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF Level 7) or NQF level 6 recognised three (3)
year Diploma, Advanced Certificate or equivalent in Forensic investigation,
forensic Auditing, Criminal Investigation and Policing. Minimum of three years’
experience financial investigation in a legal/investigative/financial environment
in roles related to investigations, financial crime, financial analysis, forensic
accounting or compliance. Vocational training in Forensic Investigation,
Forensic Auditing, Law or any other specialized financial investigation courses.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
62
Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent written and verbal communication
skills, innovative and proactive. General management and project
management Skills. Strategic capability and leadership. People management
and empowerment. Customer service and responsiveness. Communication
Skills. Planning and Prioritising. Research Skills and Administration skills. A
valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Conduct case planning. Conduct financial investigation. Execute special
operations in line with the provisions of relevant legislation. Attend to
stakeholder engagement in relation to financial investigations. Provide
administrative support with regard to case management.
ENQUIRIES : Naledi Modise Tel No: (012) 845 7738
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026186@npa.gov.za
POST 17/82 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/187
Office of the National Director of Public Prosecutions
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Public Administration/ Business Management or equivalent. Minimum of
at least Three (3) years Supervisory experience in Administration within the
executive office. Proven experience in drafting high-level memoranda, official
correspondence and submissions for executive authorities including Ministers’
offices and/or the Presidency. Extensive knowledge of NPA Act, PSA Act and
Regulations, PFMA and Treasury regulations and prescripts. Excellent written
and verbal communication skills, innovative and proactive. Able to work under
pressure. Able to work extensive hours. Decisive under pressure and solution
orientation. Ability to meet strict deadlines. Strong organisation and
management skills. Reliable, organized and able to work in a team. Extensive
computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs such as Ms Word, Excel,
Ms outlook and PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Provide administration functions within the office of the NDPP. Render an office
support and administration function, filing system and pending system with a
task list. Make travel arrangements as and when required. Manage incoming
and outgoing correspondence and ensure correct security processes are
followed. Prepare documentation (letters, memos etc) as and when required.
Ensure prompt completion of tasks for the office of the NDPP. Ensure that
finance and supply chain services are administered. Manage performance
management. Ensure that human resources management services are
administered. Provide general administration services. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Muzikayifani Madhlala Tel No: (012) 845 6265
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026187@npa.gov.za
POST 17/83 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/188
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Vaal Rand (Benoni)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
communication and administrative skills. Report writing skills, good verbal and
written communication skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Excellent
administrative skills and problem-solving skills. Good analytical skills.
Computer skills such as MS word, Excel, Ms Office suite and Outlook.
Flexibility. Document administration, writing skills and task time management
skills.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support to the office of Senior
Prosecutor/District Court Control Prosecutor. Design and keep a well-
organized administrative system for the office. Execute a wide variety of
administrative tasks. Draft correspondence to members of the public, other
organisations, and State departments. Liaise with administration with all
matters pertaining to the administrative functioning of the office. Provide
administrative support to the legal staff, pertaining to finance, logistical and
human resources functions of the subcluster. Deliver mails, and faxes within
the office and render general administrative support such as filing,
photocopying, faxing, receiving, and dispatching documents. Provide
administrative support to SPP and Prosecutor in the cluster and provide
63
logistical services thereof. Receive correspondence dockets for the section.
Collect information for civil matters addressed to the unit/group. Do pends for
docket ad collect them. Liaise with the public/SAPS members and other justice
stakeholders. Collate and capture statistics, reports and submit to Chief
prosecutors’ office.
ENQUIRIES : Motshabi Malabi Tel No: (012) 351 6864
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026188@npa.gov.za
POST 17/84 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/189
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: East London
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
communication and administrative skills. Report writing skills, good verbal and
written communication skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Excellent
administrative skills and problem-solving skills. Good analytical skills.
Computer skills such as MS word, Excel, Ms Office suite and Outlook.
Flexibility. Document administration, writing skills and task time management
skills.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support to the office. Design and keep a
well-organized administrative system for the office. Provide administrative
duties to the office and the unit. Execute a wide variety of administrative tasks
pertaining to the provision of support to line functionaries e.g responsible for
workflow and document tracking in the office. Type and forward
correspondence to the Advocates, Prosecutors and other stakeholders in the
institution. Liaise with corporate services with regards to all matters pertaining
to the administrative functioning of the office. Provide high level administrative
support to the legal staff, pertaining to logistical and data capturing.
ENQUIRIES : Mawande Ntsondwa Tel No: (040) 608 6800
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026189@npa.gov.za
POST 17/85 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/190
Strategy Operations and Compliance: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification Sound knowledge of the PFMA, Treasury
Regulations and supply chain management. Able to work extended hours
where necessary. Excellent communication and administrative skills Computer
literacy in Ms Excel, Word (Intermediate) and Outlook. Good written and verbal
communications skills. Able to work under pressure. Be reliable, tolerant and
determined.
DUTIES : Place orders for goods and services. Capture, approve and authorize requests
on the LOGIS system. Liaise with business units and service providers
regarding purchase orders. Update request status on the tracking system.
Prepare monthly reports for processed requests and issued orders.
ENQUIRIES : John Solomon Tel No: (012) 845 6770
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026190@npa.gov.za
POST 17/86 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/191
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DPP: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
communication and administrative skills. Sound planning and organising skills,
written and verbal communication. General computer literacy skills and
knowledge in programs Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Good
people skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Ability to act independently.
DUTIES : Provide high level administration support to the office. Keep and maintain the
incoming and outgoing documents register for the component. Provide supply
chain clerical support services within the component. Provide personnel
administrative clerical support services within the office. Handle routine
enquiries, keep and maintain the filing system for the component. Provide
64
financial administration support in the office. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ethel Mokgoko Tel No: (033) 392 8761
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026191@npa.gov.za
POST 17/87 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/192
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Bellville (Vredendal)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
communication and administrative skills. Report writing, good verbal and
written communication skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Excellent
administrative skill and problem-solving skills. Good analytical skills. Computer
skills such as MS Word, Excel, MS Office suite and Outlook. Documentation
administration, writing skills and task time management skills.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support to the office. Design and keep a
well-organized administrative system for the office. Execute a wide variety of
administrative tasks pertaining to the provision of support to line functionaries
Draft correspondence to members of the public, other organizations and State
Departments. Liaise with corporate services with regards to all matters
pertaining to the administrative functioning of the office. Provide general
administrative support to the legal staff. Deliver mails and faxes within the office
and render general administrative support such as filing, photocopying and
faxing, receiving; dispatching documents. Perform any other duties as deemed
necessary by the supervisor/ manager.
ENQUIRIES : Sonwabo Mkwakwi Tel No: (021) 487 7234
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026192@npa.gov.za
POST 17/88 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/193
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DPP: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
communication and administrative skills. Sound planning and organising skills,
written and verbal communication. General computer literacy skills and
knowledge in programs Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Good
people skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Ability to act independently.
DUTIES : Booking and allocating of fleet vehicles. Conduct vehicle inspection with drivers
at issue and return of fleet vehicles. Maintaining accurate records of usage,
mileage and fuel. Co-ordinate maintenance/service bookings for fleet vehicles.
Liaise with customers and service providers. Ensure efficient record keeping of
fleet vehicle files, trip authorities, logbooks, maintenance schedules, vehicles
registration documents, copies of drivers’ licences and expiry dates. Conduct
asset verification when required. Verifying monthly vehicle usage and fuel
reports. Checking tracker reports against trip authorities.
ENQUIRIES : Ethel Mokgoko Tel No: (033) 392 8761
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026193@npa.gov.za
POST 17/89 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Pietermaritzburg Ref No: Recruit 2026/194 (X2 Posts)
CPP: Durban Ref No: Recruit 2026/195 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound
planning and organizing skills, written and verbal communication. Good people
skills. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to act
independently. General computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS
Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Generate reports from the ECMS for statistical purposes. Receive and allocate
statistics. Update court statistics registers on daily basis. Generate various
statistics sheet. Draw up reports from ECMS. Draw ECMS for submission to
65
supervisors and/or relevant NPA officials (CPP, DPP or National Office) for
monthly statistics. Conduct date verification i.e statistics verification. Update
electronic case register as and when additional data becomes available.
Communicate with Prosecutors in respect of matters dealt with. Validate what
is happening in court as and when required. Write up information to be captured
on ECMS. Contact Prosecutors for information to reconcile on ECMS. Register
incoming dockets and scanning thereof, capturing new cases on the Electronic
Case Management System (ECMS). Daily updating of information from court.
Maintain integrity and accuracy of the data captured on ECMS. Provide
dockets electronically or hard copies to Defence on request of Prosecutors.
Make of photocopies of charge sheets in finalised cases. Attend to queries on
case flow from Prosecutors and SAPS from the ECMS. Act as a liaison
between NPA and SAPS to obtain urgent dockets and to rectify the dockets
which cannot be retrieved on the ECMS. Communicate with NPA stakeholders
such as witnesses to remind them of court dates, consultations and provide
complainants with outcomes of cases. Provide case administration and
document management. Prepare and maintain files. Release appropriate
documents to any other interested parties.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Pietermaritzburg & CPP: Durban Ethel Mokgoko Tel No: (033) 392 8761
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Pietermaritzburg e mail: Recruit2026194@npa.gov.za
CPP: Durban e mail: Recruit2026195@npa.gov.za
POST 17/90 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK (ECMS)
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Cape Town (Bellville) Ref No: Recruit 2026/196 (X2 Posts)
CPP: Cape Town Ref No: Recruit 2026/197 (X3 Posts)
CPP: Cape Town (Goodwood) Ref No: Recruit 2026/198
CPP: Cape Town (Mitchells Plain) Ref No: Recruit 2026/199
CPP: Cape Town (Khayelitsha) Ref No: Recruit 2026/200
CPP: Cape Town (Wynberg) Ref No: Recruit 2026/201
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
communication and administrative skills. Repost writing, good verbal and
written communication skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Excellent
administrative skill and problem-solving skills. Good analytical skills. Computer
skills such as MS Word, Excel, MS Office suite and Outlook. Documentation
administration, writing skills and task time management skills.
DUTIES : Register incoming dockets and scanning thereof. Communicate with
Prosecutors in respect of matters dealt with Generate reports from ECMS for
statistical purposes. Attend to queries on case flow from Prosecutors and
SAPS from the ECMS. Provide case administration and document
management. Capturing new cases on the electronic case management
system (ECMS). Daily updating of information from court. Maintain integrity and
accuracy of the data captured on ECMS. Provide dockets electronically or hard
copies to Defence on request of Prosecutions. Make photocopies of charge
sheets in finalised cases. Validate what is happening in court as and when
required. Write up information to be captured on ECMS. Contact Prosecutors
for information to reconcile on ECMS. Receive and collate statistics. Update
court statistics registers on a daily basis. Generate various statistics sheet.
Draw up reports from ECMS. Draw reports from ECMS for submission to
Supervisors for monthly reporting. Conduct data verification, i.e., statistics
verification. Update electronic case register as and when additional data
becomes available. Act as a liaison between NPA and SAPS to obtain urgent
dockets and to rectify dockets which cannot be retrieved on the ECMS.
Communicate with NPA stakeholders such as witnesses to remind of court date
es consultations and provide complainants with outcomes of cases. Prepare
and maintain files. Release appropriate documents to any other interested
party. Provide high level administrative support to the office. Design and keep
a well organised administrative system for the office. Execute a wide variety of
administrative tasks pertaining to the provision of support to line functionaries.
Perform any other duties as deemed necessary by supervisor/manager.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Cape Town (Bellville); CPP: Cape Town; CPP: Cape Town (Goodwood);
CPP: Cape Town (Mitchells Plain); CPP: Cape Town (Khayelitsha) & CPP:
Cape Town (Wynberg) Sonwabiso Mkwakwi Tel No: (021) 487 7234.
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Cape Town (Bellville) e mail: Recruit2026196@npa.gov.za
66
CPP: Cape Town e mail: Recruit2026197@npa.gov.za
CPP: Cape Town (Goodwood) e mail: Recruit2026198@npa.gov.za
CPP: Cape Town (Mitchells Plain) e mail: Recruit2026199@npa.gov.za
CPP: Cape Town (Khayelitsha) e mail: Recruit2026200@npa.gov.za
CPP: Cape Town (Wynberg) e mail: Recruit2026201@npa.gov.za
POST 17/91 : FINANCE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/202
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DDPP: Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification preferable finance/financial management
field. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of Financial Accounting dealing
with processing creditors payments and employee’s allowances such as cell
phone and S&T. Ability to work independently without constant supervision.
Knowledge of Public Finance, PERSAL; BAS and LOGIS. Good
communication skills, verbal and written. Planning and organizing skills. Client
orientation and customer focus. Good analytical skills. General computer
literacy and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Process payments of service providers for the unit. Provide support to Finance
Section in the department. Manage payment register. Check the correctness
of invoices and claims submitted and send to the Director Administration for
approval. Capture S & T claims and cell phone claims on PERSAL and BAS
system. Administer the petty cash for the office. Track creditors payments on
tracking system. Distribute all finance related policies and circulars to officials.
Adherent to policies and procedures. Liaise with customers and suppliers.
Verify availability of funds and recommend approval of expenditure. Help with
compilation of regional budget. Print and distribute expenditure reports to
different managers. Compile monthly recons and other reports. Make sure that
all processed payments batches are properly filed. Attend to all payment
section related queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mawande Ntsondwa Tel No: (040) 608 6800
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026202@npa.gov.za
POST 17/92 : CLEANER REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/203
Office for the Witness Protection
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga (Witbank)
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 3 or standard 8 or Grade 10 or equivalent qualifications. Grade 12
will serve as an advantage. Two (2) experience as a cleaner. Ability to work in
a team and maintain good interpersonal relationships. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility. Excellent communication and administrative skills. Sound planning
and organising skills, written and verbal communication. Knowledge of Batho
Pele Principles. General computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs
Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Good people skills. Strong
interpersonal skills. Ability to act independently.
DUTIES : Cleaning of office. Cleaning of POS. Resource management and good
governance. Perform general assistant office work.
ENQUIRIES : S Davids Tel No: (012) 845 6616
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026203@npa.gov.za
67
ANNEXURE I
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Postal Address: Private Bag X9020, Cape Town, 8000, or hand deliver
applications to the Office of the Chief Justice, Provincial Service centre 30
Queen Victoria Street, Cape Town.
KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Service Centre: Durban: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the
Chief Justice, Private Bag X54314, Durban, 4001. Applications can also be
hand delivered to 1st Floor Office No 118, CNR Somtseu8 & Stalwart Simelane
Streets, Durban, 4000.
Gauteng/Pretoria: Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the
Chief Justice, Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be
hand delivered to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
posts will be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access
to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment for SMS, a candidate
would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate
to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online
course, endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
68
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/93 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 2026/30/OCJ
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Labour And Labour Appeals Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a three (3) year National Diploma in
Public Administration/ Management or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6
with 360 credits as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) to five (5) years relevant
experience in Office or District Court administration, one (1) to two (2) years
supervisory experience, a valid driver’s licence will serve as an added
advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements Knowledge
and skills: Knowledge of the PFMA, DFI, BAS & JYP. Knowledge of Human
Resource Management, Finance, Asset and Risk Management. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Good people
management/ interpersonal skills, excellent communication skills (written and
verbal), sound leadership and management skill, exceptional report writing
skills, Be self-motivated, attention to detail, commitment and Integrity, problem
solving and maintaining discipline.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate human resources and financial resources within the
office: Co-ordinate and manage the risk and security within the court; Manage
the facilities, assets, physical resources, information and communication
related to the office/ court; Be on the local procurement panels for procurement
of goods and services/ assets; General supervision of the administrative staff;
Implement formal and informal discipline; Compile and analyse statistics to
show performances and trends; Draft and submit memoranda and reports;
Implement departmental pre-scripts and policies; Must conduct themselves
with the highest professional and ethical standards expected of a court official;
Must adhere strictly to established communication protocols; Perform any other
duties required to ensure the smooth running of the office/ court; Perform any
other duties as directed by management.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms RM David Tel No: (021) 469 4028/29
HR Related Enquiries: Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No (021) 469 4029
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/30/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/94 : PRINCIPAL LIBRARIAN REF NO: 2026/31/OCJ
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of The High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma / Degree in Library
Science or an equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of two (2) years of experience in Library
Service, Information Systems and general administrative. Knowledge of
69
Library and Information Science matters, Prescripts and Legislations,
procedures and processes and Library Services. Experience within court
environment and a valid driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Planning,
organising and control skills, good written and oral communication skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills, customer Service, interpersonal
skills, information technology, ability to work under pressure, language
proficiency, conflict management and supervisory skills.
DUTIES : Render an effective and efficient Library and Information services to the users
of the library, manage the Library and Information systems, assist with book
selection for the library and Chambers, classify and catalogue the Western
Cape Division of the High Court’s Library material. render a reference and
information service for the Western Cape Division of the High Court’s Library,
monitor the Library budget and give inputs to the library budget, market and
promote the Library Services, perform administration and supervisory services,
perform any other court-related work required to improve the efficiency of the
Western Cape Division of the High Court and perform asset management
services i.r.o. the library books in the High Court.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. N Chwethiso Tel No: (021) 480 2637
HR Related Enquiries: Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4029
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/31/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/95 : PRINCIPAL LIBRARIAN REF NO: 2026/32/OCJ
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE KwaZulu Natal Local Division of The High Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a three (3) year National Diploma /
Degree in Library Science and information science studies or an equivalent
qualification at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of two (2) years of experience in Library Service and Information
Systems. A valid driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge
and experience of legal library environment as well as comparative research
and international legal matters in South African as well as comparative and
international legal matters, computer Literacy (MS Office, Power point,
Outlook, Word, excel & Internet), report writing skills, research and planning
skills, excellent communication skills (written and verbal), Interpersonal
Relations and knowledge of Library OPAC systems.
DUTIES : Monitor the collection, cataloguing and publications of Library materials within
the Court, Identify and select the relevant material to be procured at Court
Library in accordance with library policies and guidelines, assess the relevance
and currency of the library collection and make recommendations for additions,
removals, or updates, organise and catalogue legal materials to ensure easy
retrieval by legal professionals, apply appropriate classification systems and
metadata to enhance the accessibility of the collection and barcoding of Library
material and soft copies (online resources), monitor serial publications,
receiving of amendments and updating of loose-leaf subscriptions and binders,
facilitate the submission of standing orders for the court, monitor the rendering
of library and Information Services to Judiciary, monitor circulation desk
services and helpdesk roster, implement digital tools and technologies to
enhance information retrieval processes, keep updates on emerging
technologies relevant to legal research and library management and integrate
into the library's operations, monitor the digital resources, including electronic
databases, legal research tools, and online subscriptions, facilitate interlibrary
loans to ensure access to materials not available within the court's own
collection, monitor the circulation handed down judgments both pdf and word
version to Publishers and external stakeholders on request, ensure the
circulation of finalised Judgments of interest to other Judges. Upload Monitor
the usage of library information resources both hard copies, provide reference
assistance and library awareness within the Court, provide reference
70
assistance to judges, lawyers, court staff, and the public, provide support with
legal research, citation verification, and locating relevant legal precedents,
conduct training sessions for legal professionals on effective legal research
methods and the use of legal database, keep legal professionals informed
about recent developments in the law through newsletters, alerts, and other
current awareness services, advocate for the importance of the library within
the court system and promote awareness of its resources and services,
coordinate and monitor effective Library Administration, coordinate Library
Services staff meetings, provide support in the coordination of Library
Committee meetings, provide support in the facilitation of online trainings by
Juta, LexisNexis and Sabinet for Judges, Judges Secretaries, Registrars. and
Law Researchers, monitor quarterly Budget allocations for the Library,
coordinate and monitor the procurement process with Supply Chain
Management for new purchases, monitor internal asset verification schedule
and assets register, coordinate and monitor the disposal of approved Library
publications for donations, supervise and develop staff, ensure general
supervision of employees, allocate duties and perform quality control on the
work delivered by officials, manage leave of staff, advise and lead supervisees
with regard to all aspects of the work, manage performance, conduct and
discipline of employees, ensure that all employees are trained and developed
to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and effectively,
develop, implement and monitor work systems and processes to ensure
efficient and effective functioning and address enquiries and provide advice
and guidance on asset allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mrs K Marais Tel No: (031) 492 4699
HR Related Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/32/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/96 : PRINCIPAL COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2026/33/OCJ
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of The High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a three (3) years National Diploma in
Legal Interpreting or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in court
interpreting or Grade twelve (12) certificate with at least ten (10) years practical
experience in Court Interpreting. Two (2) years supervisory experience,
Proficiency in English and Afrikaans and /or IsiXhosa, a valid driver’s licence
will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a
pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and skills: Oral and written languages proficiency testing skills,
excellent communication skills, time management, computer literacy, analytic
thinking, good interpersonal skills, problem solving, planning and organizing,
confidentiality, ability to work under pressure, art of interpreting and supervising
the Language Section.
DUTIES : Render interpreting services in the High Court & Labour Court in high profile
matters and quasi-judicial proceedings: Interpret in complex cases, interpret in
criminal Labour Court matters, interpret in conciliation and arbitration
disciplinary hearings, interpret civil in confessions, Interpret pre-trial
proceedings and consultations for the DPP. Control, supervise and attend to
personnel administrative aspects for interpreter component: Provide mentoring
and coaching to junior/ Senior Court interpreters, manage performance
agreement contracts, draw a schedule for replacement of Court Interpreters,
control leave of Senior Court Interpreters and submit Court hour registers,
quarterly submit probation reports, translate Legal documents and exhibits for
the Judiciary, assist with reconstruction of court proceeding records, procure
foreign language interpreters and causals in line with PFMA and the relevant
policy, report statistical information to the Chief Registrar or Court Manager,
develop terminology, coin words, perform specific line and administrative
support functions to the Judiciary, Database development, provide terms and
their respective meanings in the glossary register, Supervise and develop staff,
provide effective people management, provide practical training for staff and
develop, implement and monitor work systems and processes to ensure
71
efficient and effective functioning and address enquiries and provide advice
and guidance on asset allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. N Chwethiso Tel No: (021) 480 2637
HR Related Enquiries: Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4029
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/33/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/97 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2026/34/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Division of The High Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade twelve (12) certificate. An LLB
Degree, Bachelor of Law or a minimum of 20 modules completed towards an
LLB or BA Law will serve as an added advantage. A minimum of one (01) year
legal secretarial experience. To pass a typing test. Experience in a Legal/ Court
environment and a valid driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Good
communication skills (verbal and written), administration and organizational
skills, exceptional interpersonal skills, ability to meet strict deadlines and to
work under pressure, attention to detail, customer service skills, excellent
typing skills including Dictaphone typing, confidentiality and time management,
computer literacy (MS Word) and research capabilities.
DUTIES : Render Secretarial support to the Judiciary, diarise the appointments and
meetings of the Judge, type and file the judgments, ensure the Judgments that
are handed down (delivered), signed draft orders granted in Court or virtually
are sent to the Typist for scanning, upload unto Case-lines/Court-Online and
the Library, ensure that all visitors are received, screened and their queries are
attended to, record all incoming and outgoing documents, order and collect
stationery for the Judge, provide support functions to Civil, Criminal and review
matters/Courts and case allocations in chambers, collect the files before the
commencement of a Criminal matter from the Registrar’s office at the criminal
section, keep updating the register of reviews and sign on receipt to return the
reviews to the Clerk, ensure that the register/template of the reserved
judgement is updated and notify the Statistics Officer and the office of the
Judge President when judgment has been handed down, ensure that the
transcribed judgements from transcribers reach the Judges for approval and
signature, prepare court rolls for Opposed Motion and Urgent Court and
distribute to stakeholders, ensure that the Heads of Arguments from various
stakeholders are available to the Judge as per the filing that was done, provide
support functions to civil / criminal courts, administer the correct Oath ID or
declaration in court when required, ensure that the bench book of the Judge is
prepared and files are taken by Ushers to Court before the commencement of
the proceedings, ensure that all stakeholders involved are present in court
before commencement of proceedings, ensure that all cases are called on
record as per the Court roll by means of calling the case number and the
parties’ names, before a Judge can allow parties to start with their matters,
ensure that in the Criminal Court exhibits are handled, controlled and noted
professionally, provide general administrative support to the Judiciary, ensure
that all the travel, accommodation arrangements are in order and attend to sign
the documents for approval, ensure that the Judge’s logbook is submitted on
or before the 5th of every month to the Transport Officer, ensure that the car is
booked for either maintenance and service, receive the pre-authorisation for
the Judge’s vehicle, remind Judge of the invoices so that the submission of the
S&T claims can be processed, ensure the submissions of Cell phone and 3G
data claims for process purposes and ensure that all updates on the loose leafs
in the Judges library are attended to.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms K Marais Tel No: (031) 492 4699
HR Related Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 4931723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/34/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
72
POST 17/98 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2026/35/OCJ
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07), plus 37% in lieu of benefits. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade twelve (12) certificate. A
minimum of one (01) year secretarial experience. A minimum of 20 modules
completed towards an LLB, BA/BCOM Law. LLB Degree/ Bachelor of Laws
and a valid driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. Candidate/s to
pass a typing test. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and skills: Excellent communication skills (verbal & written);
Computer literacy; Numerical skills; Attention to detail; Planning, organizing
and control; Problem solving and decision-making skills; Customer service
oriented; Interpersonal skills; Conflict management and strong work ethics;
Professionalism; Ability to work under pressure and meeting deadlines; Results
driven; Honesty and trustworthy. Observance of confidentiality.
DUTIES : To ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. To
ensure that appointments and meetings of the Judge are diarized. To ensure
that the judgments are typed, and correspondence is appropriately captured
and saved in the correct locations and safeguarded. To ensure that signed
Judgments and orders are properly handed down in person in court and/or
virtually. To ensure that draft judgements are expeditiously handled and typed.
To ensure all visitors in the Judge’s Chambers are received, screened and their
queries are attended to. To ensure that all incoming and outgoing documents
are recorded and filed. To ensure that stationery for the Judge is ordered and
collected. To ensure that the court files are ready, the Judge has access to all
his allocated files and documents in the file on time as per duty roster. To
ensure that all files received from various sections(s) are verified by the
Registrar of that section. To ensure that the Judges Chamber register of
reviews is up to date and signed on receipt and return of review files to the
review Clerk. To ensure that the register/template for the reserved judgements
is updated timeously and that the Statistics Officer as well as the office of the
Judge President is notified when judgement remains outstanding and/or has
been handed down. To ensure that transcribed judgements from transcribers
reach the Judges for approval and signature. To prepare court rolls for
Opposed Motion and Urgent Court and distribute to stakeholders. To ensure
that the Heads of Argument from various stakeholders are received, filed and
verified. Informing parties involved via e-mail and or the time telephonically of
time and date when reserve judgements will be handed down, further notifying
them on how the judgement will be handed down. To ensure that the bench
book of the Judge is prepared, and files are in court before the court starts or
before the Judge enters the court. To ensure that all stakeholders involved are
present in court before commencement of proceedings. To ensure that all
cases are called and recorded as per court roll. Calling the case number and
the parties’ names on record before Judge can allow parties to start with their
matters. To ensure that the correct Oath ID or declaration is administered in
court, when required. To ensure that the exhibits are handled, controlled and
noted professionally and captured accordingly. To ensure that the correct order
is endorsed on the file and or on Case lines after it was granted by Judge in
court. To ensure that all the travel and accommodation arrangements are in
order on time, attend to sign the documents being signed prior approval. To
ensure that the Judge’s logbook is submitted on or before 5th of every month
to the Transport Officer. To ensure that the car is booked for either maintenance
and service, receive the pre-authorization for the Judge’s vehicle. To ensure
the submissions of Cell phone and 3G data claims for process purposes. To
ensure that court roll(s) are submitted to the Statistical Officer on or before
every Friday. To ensure that all updates on the loose leafs in the Judge’s library
are attended to.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms M Campbell Tel No (012) 492 6799
HR Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/35/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
73
POST 17/99 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2026/36/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE Labour and Labour Appeals Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate or equivalent
qualification as recognised by SAQA. No experience required. A valid driver’s
license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of working procedures in
terms of the working environment, knowledge of registry processes and
practice, knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment, knowledge and understanding of legislative frameworks
governing the Public Service, knowledge of Filling system, Mail procedure
manual, Promotion of Access to Information Act and National Archives. Batho
Pele Principles, Computer Literacy skills (Microsoft Office), and communication
skills. Numeracy skills, interpersonal skills, problem solving and analysis skills,
time management skills and, administrative skills.
DUTIES : Perform clerical and administrative work within the Court: Register/ allocate
case numbers to all pleadings and court documents received, ensure that the
files have been served on all parties concerned, draw up files for the
litigants/Attorney; update the file of return service/s proof services, handle
court’s request files, retrieve the requested file and make the file available to
the requester, attend to queries from parties and members of the public, record
documents received, ensure systematical recording of court files, keep record
of requests received from litigants, render case management duties, attend to
case management and set down notice, implement case management
practices (placing request forms in the space of a file that has been requested,
complete and file the movement sheet), render case management duties,
monitor files and records as per the case Management, provide support with
administrative registrar, submit leave forms to HR for compliance, maintain and
keep all registers for filing and archiving, comply with the telephone prescripts
and leave policies, prepare and sign performance agreement timeously, safe-
keep and dispose of case records.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr SI Cele Tel No: (031) 492 6207
HR Related Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 4931723
APPLICATIONS Applications can be sent via email to 2026/36/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/100 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2026/37/OCJ (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE Western Cape Division of The High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate or equivalent
qualification as recognised by SAQA. No experience required. An LLB/ B Com
Law/ BA Law/ Paralegal qualification, experience in general legal
administration, one (1) year administration experience preferably in a court
environment and valid driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Good
communication (written and verbal), computer literacy (MS Office), good
interpersonal skills, good public relations skills, ability to work under pressure,
customer service, knowledge of document management and filing.
DUTIES : Assist with the management and control of Court Records, filling and issuing
of civil processes and criminal matter, processing of reviews and appeals,
compilation of statistics, attend and oversee to general public enquiries/
correspondence, Court online related duties, perform any other duties required
for the effective and efficient functioning of the court as required by the
Judiciary, Court Manager and Chief Registrar.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. N Hanekom Tel No: (021) 480 2635
HR Related Enquiries: Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS Applications can be sent via email to 2026/37/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
74
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 17/101 : TYPIST REF NO: 2026/38/OCJ
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division of The High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 or equivalent qualification as
recognised by SAQA. No experience is required. Legal / court experience will
serve as an advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of legal terminology, court procedures, rules
and court environment, counter services, filing system, understanding of
legislation governing the Public Service (Batho Pele & PSR), knowledge of the
Batho Pele Principles, computer literacy (Microsoft Office), typing skills (speed
35 words per minute), good communication skills (written and verbal), good
interpersonal relations, planning and organization skills, problem-solving skills,
accuracy and attention to detail, ability to work under pressure, good time
keeping and telephone etiquette.
DUTIES : Type court orders, court documents and reports, type appeals, reviews,
memorandums, reports, minutes, circulars, notice of set downs, witness
statements and taxing master reports, type Rule 6(12) orders and make
available in terms of the rule, type notices, sort and distribute incoming and
outgoing files, compile term roll, weekly roll and un/opposed motion rolls and
maintain registers, draft term rolls for each court term in line with the Gazetted
terms, type supplementary rolls, compile and submit relevant orders to relevant
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. N Hanekom Tel No: (021) 480 2635
HR Related Enquiries: Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2026/38/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goal.
POST 17/102 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 2026/39/OCJ
SALARY : R170 226 – R200 523 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Local Division of The High Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a grade 10 (ABET level 3) or equivalent
qualification as recognised by SAQA. Basic Security Officer’s course, at least
Grade C with a valid PSIRA certificate. A minimum of one (1) year experience
in security industry is required. A valid driver’s license will serve as an added
advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge
and Skills: Knowledge of access to Public Premises and Vehicle Act and other
security related legislations, knowledge of access control procedures,
knowledge of control and movement of equipment and stores, knowledge of
prescribed security procedures (e.g. MIS, NISA, Protection of Information Act,
etc.) and the authority of security officers under these documents, knowledge
on the relevant emergency procedures, Batho Pele Principles, interpersonal
skills, client service skills, listening skills, problem solving skills, decision
making skills, good communication skills, computer skills and facilitating skills.
DUTIES : Perform access control functions, determine whether visitors have
appointments/or the service that visitor requires, contact the relevant
employees to confirm the appointment or refer the visitor to the relevant service
delivery point, ensure that the admission control register is completed and
issue admission control documents/ cards as required, utilise walk-through
metal detector for the effectiveness of access control, ensure that unauthorised
persons and dangerous object do not enter the building/premises, report all the
identified security breaches and non-compliance to the Supervisor, ensure that
equipment, document and store do not leave or enter the building or premises
unauthorised, ensure that the registers control the movement of equipment,
stores and documents are completed, ensure that no equipment, stores as
assets of the department leave the building /premises unauthorised, inspect
75
vehicles entering and leaving the premises, gather information and report on
missing and stolen equipment and stores, handle documents at points of entry
according to classification and the prescripts, operate control room security
equipment’s, monitor all movements, events, and activities within the
department's premises using CCTV equipment’s, ensure that security system
is in good working condition, report all incidents monitored, report to the
supervisor, monitor all access points for effective access control, report all
identified non-compliance to security policy and procedures to improve office
security, ensure safety in the building and premises, undertake building/ and
the primes patrols to identify and check, apply emergency procedures (in
situations like bomb scares, riots etc.) and alert emergency services and
department management, monitor and respond to alarm system, ensure all
incidents are recorded in the occurrence books/registers, ensure that recorded
information is correct, update the information on the occurrence book/register
as and when required. Liaise with supervisor to verify information recorded and
perform any other duties assigned to you by the supervisor/ Court Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms K Marias Tel No: (031) 492 5502
HR Related Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2026/39/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goal.
76
ANNEXURE J
OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
The Office of the Public Service Commission (OPSC) is an equal opportunity representative employer.
Therefore, the OPSC is intentional in promoting representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public
Service through filling these positions in line with the approved Employment Equity Plan. All candidates
whose appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representativeness are encouraged to apply.
Preference will be given to Coloureds, Indians, Whites and persons with disabilities. An indication of
representativeness profile by applicants will expedite the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : You can apply on www.psc.gov.za under “vacancies”. Forward your
application/s stating the relevant reference number to: The Acting Director-
General, Office of the Public Service Commission, Private Bag X121, Pretoria,
0001 or hand-deliver at Commission House, Office Park Block B, 536 Francis
Baard Street, Arcadia, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Mabuza
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026; 15h30
NOTE : Applications must consist of a) A fully completed and signed PDF Z83
application form which came into effect on 1 January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies ). b) A recent comprehensive PDF
CV with a minimum of three (3) contactable referees with their telephone
numbers and email addresses. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
bring certified copies of ID, drivers’ license and qualifications on or before the
interviews. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification(s), it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). The successful candidate will be required to obtain a top-
secret clearance issued by the State Security Agency. The OPSC will verify the
qualifications and conduct personnel suitability checks on recommended
candidates. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only, thus,
if you have not been contacted within 3 months from the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Please
take note that late applications will not be considered and the OPSC will not be
held liable. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Following the interview and
technical exercise on SMS posts, the Selection Committee will recommend a
candidate/s to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directives on the competency-based assessments).
The competency will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Note (A pre-entry
certificate (Nyukela) obtained from the National School of Government (NSG)
prior appointment for all SMS appointments is required). Applicants are advised
against the use of the old Z83 application form which was valid until 31
December 2020 because it will render such application/s invalid. All shortlisted
candidates must avail themselves on the date and time determined by the
OPSC. The OPSC reserves the right to fill or not fill any vacant post.
OTHER POST
POST 17/103 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SECURITY SERVICES REF NO: ASD: SS/05/2026
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply.
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognized Bachelor’s Degree, B. Tech/ Advanced Diploma (NQF 7) in the field
of Security Management. Must be in a possession of Grade A PSIRA certificate.
Completion of SSA Security Advisory Course will be an added advantage. 3-5
years’ supervisory experience as Senior Security Officer. Must have Computer
skills in MS Office Suite, including Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Good
communication and writing skills. Problem solving and organising ability. Good
interpersonal skills. Must be assertive, trustworthy, ethical and professional.
Must be self-driven, creative, results-oriented and meticulous. Ability to work
both independently and as part of a team. Ability to work under pressure and
maintain a high level of confidentiality. Must have knowledge of Security
prescripts, procedures and Security technologies. An understanding of the
77
Constitutional Values and Principles (CVPs) in Section 195 and how these
CVPs contribute towards effective public service delivery. An understanding of
how this post supports the role of the Public Service Commission (PSC)
regarding the CVPs. Must have a valid driver’s license (with exception of
disabled applicants).
DUTIES : Administration of personnel, documents, communication, information and
physical security. Develop and maintain a security awareness programme.
Conduct Security Threats and Risk Assessments. Forge relations with external
security Agencies and other organs of state. Develop, implement and review
Security Policies. Responsible for People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Zola Tshatshelo Tel No: (012) 352 1106
78
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION
It is the intention to promote representivity in the Department through the filling of these posts. The
candidature of applicants from designated groups especially in respect of people with disabilities will
receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 08 June 2026
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: (1) A
fully completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be downloaded at
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/.”From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it
will not be considered”, (2) a recent comprehensive CV, contactable referees
(telephone numbers and email addresses must be indicated); Note 1:
Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified documents of qualifications. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). All non-SA citizens must submit a copy of proof of permanent
residence in South Africa on or before the day of the interviews. All shortlisted
candidates for Senior Management Services (SMS) posts shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments (Technical exercise and Integrity (Ethical Conduct).
Suitable candidates identified by the selection and interview panel must
undergo, (1) competency assessment, (2) personnel suitability checks on
criminal records, citizen verification, financial records and (3) qualification
verification. Note 2: Prior to appointment the nominated candidate will be
required to complete the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme,
an online course offered by the National School of Government (NSG). The
course can be accessed from the following link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.The
successful candidate will be expected to (1) undergo vetting processes (2)
enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement within 3
months of appointment, as well as (3) complete a financial interests declaration
form within one month of appointment and annually thereafter.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/104 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: DPSA 04/2026
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), an all-inclusive remuneration package.
Annual progression up to a maximum salary of R1 787 328 per annum is
possible, subject to satisfactory performance. The all-inclusive remuneration
package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured
according to personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum qualification at NQF level 7 in Law/ Bachelor of Laws (LLB), or a
Bachelor of Procurations (B Proc). Admitted as an attorney or an Advocate.
Minimum of five (5) years’ experience at a senior management level. Ten (10)
years’ experience in Legal Services environment with specific focus on drafting
and processing of legislation, litigation and provision of legal advice and
opinions. Sound Knowledge of (1) the Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa, (2) the constitutional and legislative mandates of the Minister for the
Public Service and Administration, (3) all other legislation related to public
service and administration. Managerial Skills: Strategic management, Human
resources management, Financial management, Risk management and
Stakeholder management. Competencies: Decision making, leadership,
communication, problem solving and emotional intelligence.
DUTIES : Manage the process of drafting Public Administration legislation. Manage the
review of legislation administered by the Minister for the Public Service and
Administration of Public Administration Manage the provision of legal advisory
79
services to the Executive Authority, the department and external stakeholders.
Manage the provision of ligation services. Perform duties of a Deputy
Information Officer. Ensure the department’s compliance with the PAJA, POPIA
and PAIA and other relevant legislation. Manage the operations, human and
financial resources of the Chief Directorate. Attend all departmental and any
other meetings as directed. Represent the department in intra-departmental,
inter-departmental and other committees or work streams on legal matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Linda Dludla Tel No: (012) 336 1282
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed to Advert042026@dpsa.gov.za
POST 17/105 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPSA 05/2026
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), an all-inclusive remuneration package.
Annual progression up to a maximum salary of R1 787 328 per annum is
possible, subject to satisfactory performance. The all-inclusive remuneration
package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured
according to personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum qualification at NQF level 7 in Public Management/
Administration/Public Management/Business Administration/Management
Services/ Industrial and Organisational Psychology/ Industrial Psychology/
Operations/ Production Management. Minimum of 5 years at a senior
management level. Minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience in Operations
Management environment. Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa, Government Legislative Framework, Public Service Legislative
and Policy Framework (PSA), Government Programs such as the National
Development Plan, Outcome 12, Key Strategic Priorities of Government,
Sound understanding of operations management. Managerial Skills: Decision
Making, written and verbal communication, Stakeholder Management and
coordination, Strategic thinking and leadership, Analytical skills, Interpersonal
relations, financial management, Confidentiality, Human Resource
Management, Research, Change management, Project and program.
Technical Skills: Understanding of Operations Strategy and Design,
Understanding of KHAEDU, Understanding of Organisational Functionality
Assessment, Understanding of Productivity Measurements, Understanding of
Service Delivery Mechanisms and Understanding of Business Process
Management and Modernisation. Generic Skills: Problem Solving, Diversity
management, Communication and information management, Facilitation,
Negotiation, Presentation, Report Writing, Computer Literacy, Conflict
management and Teamwork.
DUTIES : Manage and ensure the development and implementation of policies, norms
and standards, processes systems for Operations Strategy and Design.
Monitor and report on compliance by national and provincial departments with
the Operations Strategy and Design building blocks. Conduct evaluation and
impact studies as required. Manage and ensure the development and
implementation of policies, norms and standards, processes systems for
Service Delivery Mechanisms. Manage and ensure the development and
implementation of policies, norms and standards, processes systems for
Productivity and Capability Measurements. Manage and ensure the
development and implementation of policies, norms and standards, processes
systems on Institutional Assessments. Provide information, advice and support
to the MPSA, Cabinet, Portfolio Committee and internal and external
stakeholders. Manage all the operations, systems and processes of the Chief
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. Patrick Sokhela Tel No: (012) 336 1280.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed to Advert052026@dpsa.gov.za
80
POST 17/106 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SERVICE DELIVERY IMPROVEMENT, CITIZEN
RELATIONS AND PUBLIC PARTICIPATION REF NO: DPSA 06/2026
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), an all-inclusive remuneration package.
Annual progression up to a maximum salary of R1 787 328 per annum is
possible, subject to satisfactory performance. The all-inclusive remuneration
package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured
according to personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum qualification at NQF level 7 in Public Administration/ Public
Management/ Business Studies or related qualification. Minimum of 5 years at
a senior management level. Minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience at
management level in Service Delivery environment. Knowledge of the
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Government Legislative
Framework, Public Service Legislative and Policy Framework, Government
Programs such as the National Development Plan, Outcome 12, Key Strategic
Priorities of Government and Sound understanding of operations
management. Managerial Skills: Decision Making, written and verbal
communication, Stakeholder Management and coordination, Strategic thinking
and leadership, Analytical skills, Interpersonal relations, financial management,
Human Resource Management, Research, Change management, Project and
program. Technical Skills: Change management theory and practice, Citizen
relations theory and practice, Public Participation and Intergovernmental
Relations. Generic Skills: Problem Solving, Diversity management,
Communication and information management, Facilitation, Negotiation,
Presentation, Report Writing, Computer Literacy, Conflict management and
Teamwork.
DUTIES : Manage and ensure the development of Citizen Relations and Public
Participation. Manage and ensure the development of prescripts for Service
Delivery Improvement and Assessment. Technical advice, support and
capacity building provided to support implementation by national and provincial
departments. Manage and ensure development of Prescripts for Batho Pele
and Change Management. Manage all the operations, systems and process of
the Chief Directorate. Information advice and support provided to the MPSA,
Cabinet, Parliament and other internal and external shareholders. Participate
in transverse task/projects teams and work groups as required or nominated.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. Patrick Sokhela Tel No: (012) 336 1280
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed to Advert062026@dpsa.gov.za
81
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria): The Director-General, Department of Public Works and
Infrastructure, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO Building, Corner
Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms NP Mudau
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https: www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-entry
programme/. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Note: For
emailed applications, please submit a single PDF document or one attachment
per application to the email address designated on the specific position. Kindly
note that the emailed applications and attachments should not exceed 15MB.
82
It remains the candidate’s responsibility to ensure that their application is
successfully submitted using the required single pdf document.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the following amendments for posts advertised in
Public Service Vacancy Circular 16 dated 15 May 2026, with a closing date of
05 June 2026: The post of Supply Chain Management Clerk with Ref No:
2026/218, for Pretoria Regional Office is (Ring-fenced for persons with
disabilities). The post of Senior Internal Auditor with Ref No: 2026/202A, for
Johannesburg Regional Office is two (X2) posts. The post of Administrative
Officer: Provisioning with Ref No: 2026/209D, for Johannesburg Regional
Office omitted the email address and enquiry person. The correct Email
address and Enquiry person is: RecruitJHB26-21@dpw.gov.za, Enquiries: Mr
Vusi Msimango Tel No: (011) 713 6251. The post of Administrative Officer:
Provisioning with Ref No: 2026/209B, for Cape Town Regional Office has been
withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/107 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SYSTEM ANALYST REF NO: 2026/231
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06)/ National Diploma
in Information Technology or related field of study. Relevant years of
experience at an experience at a Junior Management/ Assistant Director
equivalent level in the relevant field. Knowledge: Project Management,
Information Technology policies and standards, Business process modelling,
Contract Management, System development life cycle, Networks Infrastructure
management, Information Technology Audit and Governance, Procurement
processes, Computer systems analysis, System administration, Compilation of
management reports. Skills: Ability to work independently, Ability to operate
computer on hardware and software, Problem solving, Training, Conflict
management, Strategic planning, Facilitation, Research. Personal Attributes:
Value orientated, Ability to work under pressure, Good interpersonal
relationship, Willing to learn new technologies, Verbal and written
communication, Ability to work in a team, Resourceful, Creative, Team player,
Ability to communicate at all levels, Trustworthy, Assertive, Hard-working, Self-
motivated. Willing to adapt work schedule. Security clearance.
DUTIES : Perform research on ICT systems: Analyse new technologies to determine their
usefulness to the Department. Analyse the costs and benefits of implementing
new systems. Interface with users to track additional requirements and
features. Analyse risk and come up with mitigation plans. Recommend useful
ICT systems for Department. Develop process and procedures in alignment
with applicable prescripts and ensure compliance thereof. Manage the
gathering and analysis of business requirements and process mapping:
Consult with clients to identify their business requirements. Review business
requirement documents. Perform technical interpretation of business
requirements and develop technical design documents. Formulate flow charts
illustrating steps and logical operational procedures. Determine the suitable
solutions and budget requirements. Check if there are existing possible
solutions within the Department. Liaise with developers for new solutions.
Ensure constant feedback to business unit. Evaluate the existing ICT systems
to assess their suitability for the Department’s needs: Conducting regular
reviews of systems. Analyse and define system problems. Recommend
necessary upgrades and maintenance. Generate reports on efficiencies and
improvement areas. Oversee systems’ modifications, including encoding,
testing, debugging, and installation of equipment to support application
systems when necessary. Liaise with computer audits unit for system audits.
Monitor service level agreements. Manage the Sub-directorate: Manage
performance and development of subordinates. Establish, implement and
maintain efficient and effective communication arrangements. Develop and
manage the operational plan of the sub-directorate and report on progress as
required. Manage procurement and asset management for the sub-directorate.
Plan and allocate work. Quality control of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BS Zwane Tel No: (012) 406 1578
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: email to: Recruitment26-44@dpw.gov.za
83
POST 17/108 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ANALYST DEVELOPER REF NO: 2026/232
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) /National Diploma
in Computer Science, Informatics, Information Technology or Related fields.
Extensive relevant experience on System Analysis, System Development and
Software Testing. Database knowledge of Oracle, MS SQL and MySQL.
Desirable knowledge and understanding of two or more of the following
programming languages are required: C/C++, Visual Basic, C#, Java, XML,
Angular and any BI reporting tool. Knowledge of Business Process principle,
practices, technique and tools. Knowledge and appreciation of business
concept and requirements. Ability to develop and deliver presentation. Ability
to create, compose and edit written materials. Knowledge of change
management. Performance management. Ability to manipulate and analyse
information to support decision making. Interpretation of policies, guidelines
etc. Research, Analytical and Problem Solving on Business Systems and
Technical Architecture. Risk Analysis. Service Delivery. Quality Assurance and
Innovative. Planning and organizing. Conduct JAD sessions. Good verbal and
written communication. Ability to communicate at all levels. Creative and
Independent person. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Organise and manage the activities of the Sub-Directorate. Ensure Information
Technology Governance in the Public Sector through service level agreement
(SLA’s). Develop, maintain and implement policies and strategies pertaining to
business processes and systems. Provide operational leadership with regard
to business processes and systems. Provide advice on the interpretation and
application of the Department’s strategy on business processes and systems.
Prepare, communicate and share the system requirements and technical
specification to the necessary audiences e.g. testers, developers, business
analysts, infrastructure, production support teams to enhance or develop new
systems/applications. Design the solution. Develop and write programmes.
Perform quality assurance on business systems by preparing software testing
documentation and execution test cases. Maintenance and support of the
developed solution. Promote the utilisation of technology as key enablers for
service delivery and transformation. Supervise and Develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BS Zwane Tel No: (012) 406 1578
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: email to: Recruitment26-45@dpw.gov.za
84
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref
no. must appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided the application
may not be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources
Management, Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic
Campus, corner of Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside,
Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 08 June 2026
NOTE : The application must include a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications received
that do not comply with this requirement will not be considered. Certified copies
of qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
panel for Senior Management Services (SMS) positions will further recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency-based assessment.
The Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela Programme) as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) must be completed
before an appointment on SMS level can be considered. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. No
appointment on SMS level will take place without the successful completion of
the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. Background
verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part of the
selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. The dtic reserves the right not to fill any
advertised position(s). The dtic is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer, and candidates whose appointment will promote representivity, will
be given preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/109 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PUBLIC ENTITY PERFORMANCE MONITORING &
REPORTING REF NO: ODG 073
Overview: To coordinate and facilitate the process of developing entities'
annual performance plans, business plans and performance monitoring and
reporting.
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Mandatory Minimum Requirements: A qualification at NQF level 7 in Business
/ Public Administration, and or economic or relevant qualification. 3–5 years
managerial experience in strategic planning and managing organisational
performance. Key Requirements: Experience in strategic planning,
performance monitoring and reporting for public entities or large organisations.
Strong analytical and report writing skills; ability to draft APPs and performance
reports. Experience with monitoring and evaluation frameworks and
development of indicato-rs. Stakeholder engagement and facilitation
experience, including briefing to portfolios and select committees. Ability to
assess and align entities’ plans to ENE and national priorities. Project
coordination and secretariat support experience for review sessions and
governance. Proficient in MS Office and familiarity with performance
information systems. Ability to travel and work under pressure to meet
reporting deadlines.
85
DUTIES : Assess strategic plans: Analyse entities’ strategic plans, APPs and operational
plans; draft forewords and align plans with ENE and national priorities. Conduct
entities’ performance monitoring and reporting: Monitor and evaluate signed
performance agreements of executive heads of entities, prepare monthly,
quarterly and annual performance reports and templates. Stakeholder
management: Provide inputs into entities' strategic planning sessions;
communicate analysis of quarterly and annual reports to the Director and
stakeholders. Coordinate entities performance review sessions: Coordinate
entities’ midyear and annual planning and performance review sessions,
compile minutes and provide secretariat support. Sub directorate
managemen-t: Monitor financial resources and provide inputs into strategic
planning and operational execution in the unit. -
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to Coloured
Male, White Male and persons with disabilities.
POST 17/110 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR6) REF NO: CMSB-014
(X2 POSTS)
Overview: To render professional legal services for the Department and the dtic
agencies.
SALARY : R610 434 - R1 442 451 per annum, all-inclusive remuneration package in
accordance with the OSD for legal personnel.
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Mandatory Minimum Requirements: An LLB degree. At least 8 years
appropriate post qualification legal experience. Key Requirements: Admission
as an Attorney/Advocate of the Bar Council. In-depth knowledge of the South
African legal system, legal interpretation, and the legal fraternity. Experience in
providing legal opinions, drafting, negotiating, and vetting contracts. Strong
research, analytical, and legal drafting skills. Working knowledge of civil
litigation, criminal procedure and practice, and court rules. Understanding of
Public Service Regulations, the Constitution, Case Law, Common Law, Public
Service Act, and Criminal Procedure Act. Excellent verbal and written
communication, stakeholder management, negotiation, and presentation skills.
Skills in financial management, conflict resolution, policy analysis, and trial
advocacy. Ability to work independently and collaboratively, with high levels of
professionalism and integrity.
DUTIES : Provide Legal Opinions on matter related to the Department: Research the
applicability of legal principles on legal Opinion. Highlight legal position of the
Opinion. Conduct research on applicable policy, legislation or regulation and
legal principles with regard to legal Opinion. Formulate questions to be
answered on legal Opinion. Study and cite relevant cases on aspects related
to legal Opinion. Provide strategic and technical inputs into the strategic
direction of the Unit. Provide advice on drafting, negotiation and vetting of
contracts: Draft, verify the contract and memorandum of Understanding (MoU)
to be drafted and edited. Conduct research on applicable policy, legislation or
regulation to be followed. Draft legal documents and advise on hand or mentor
juniors on drafting of legal documents that provide clear motivation/justification
for a particular position pertaining to the case. Determine if the contract is legal
and whether it reflects the intention of the Department. Ensure that there is
consistency when applying the legal principles. Ensure that the rights, powers
and duties of the Department are set out in the contract. Liaise with all
stakeholders involved in the contract and negotiate on final contract.
Consolidate amendments or comments to the contract if applicable. Ensure
that the interest of the Department is protected at all times. Certify contract and
verify consistency between instruction and content of the contract. Verify
signed contents of the contract with that as certified and hand to the Contract
Management Unit. Draft, peruse and study legislations: Conduct research,
gather information from the line functionaries on drafting legislation. Determine
factual, supporting documents and legal purpose of legislation. Highlight legal
position of the legislation. Research the applicable legal principles of drafting
and interpretation of statutes. Ascertain whether legislation is in accordance
with the principles of drafting and interpretation of statutes. Ascertain that the
intention of the Department and the entities are reflected in the proposed bill or
amended bill. Peruse and study drafts of proposed bills or amended bills.
Facilitate the drafting of cabinet memorandum. Pilot legislation through the
86
parliamentary process. Respond to legal opinion aspects that arise during
public hearings and parliamentary sessions. Execute litigation and legal
processes within the Department: Determine the factual and legal situation on
the case brought forward. Establish if the Department should litigate or defend
the matter. Consul with the relevant line functions. Prepare briefs advising the
relevant authority seeking authority to institute or defend the Department legal
position. Appear in court to provide evidence on behalf of the Department.
Provide advice in regards to a possible settlement and negotiate settlement
with opponent. Prepare instructions to the State Attorney and make
recommendations for appointment of suitable Advocate to be appointed if
necessary. Monitor the court case from the inception of its finality. Review all
pleadings at all stages for the court case as per court rules. Consult with the
relevant line function at each stage of the pleadings. Explore alternative dispute
resolution opinions for each court case and prepare an opinion on same.
Ensure that the briefings are prepared and court orders are implemented
effectively. Manage legal administrative inquiries: Liaise with stakeholders on
legal matters. Draft and/or edit legal correspondence on all legal administrative
enquiries. Conduct awareness on the implementation of legal interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
Males, Coloured Females, White Males and persons with disabilities.
POST 17/111 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INVESTMENT INFORMATION REF NO: IIAF&A-
057
Overview: To provide an investment information service across all investment
promotion sectors, facilitation, Ease of Doing Business and Clearing House.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), (commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Mandatory Minimum Requirements: A qualification at NQF level 7 in Business
Management/ Investment/ Finance/ Economics/ Marketing or relevant
qualifications. 3-5 years’ experience in an Investment Promotion environment
in private or public sector. Key Requirements: Experience in investment
information, facilitation or investor services. Experience in maintaining
investor/project databases and MIS systems. Research and report writing
skills for investment climate and regulatory studies. Stakeholder management
with embassies, chambers, provincial and municipal partners. Expe-rience
coordinating Ease of Doing Business programmes or similar initiatives. Basic
financial oversight and monitoring of programme expenditure. Computer
literacy including MIS and data capture for reporting. Ability to travel and work
under time pressure; strong communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide investment information and facilitation: Obtain and consolidate
information sources; contribute to publications and portals; compile
presentation materials. Implement investment information strategy: Gather
information on investment climate issues; provide inputs to strategy execution
and research reports. Arrange meetings and draft minutes. Knowledge
repository and database management: Coordinate information capture into
MIS/eRoom; maintain investor pipeline and contact databases. Stakeholder
and customer relations management: Manage stakeholder relations across
public -and private sectors and conduct customer satisfaction follow ups. Risk
management and reporting: Compile quarterly/annual reports and inputs for
binational commissions and state visits; manage investment pipeline- updates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
M-azibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African Male,
Coloured Male, White Male and persons with disabilities.
POST 17/112 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: AMERICA BILATERAL RELATIONS REF NO:
TRADE-056 (X2 POSTS)
Overview: To conduct economic research and provide advice on the
preparation and execution of bilateral trade and investment relations with
countries in the Americas region.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), (commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
87
REQUIREMENTS : Mandatory Minimum Requirements: A qualification at NQF Level 7 in
Economics/ International Relations or International Law with an Economics
focus. 3-5 years’ experience in international Relations or International Law in
public or private sector environment. Key Requirements: Experience in foreign
trade research and economic analysis focused on the Americas region. Ability
to prepare country briefings, quarterly economic statistics and policy inputs.
Stakeholder liaison experience with foreign missions, government departments
and business. Experience supporting trade negotiations and preparing
negotiation briefs. Project coordination skills and ability to manage Bi-national
Commission workstreams. Excellent report-writing and presentation skills.
Computer literate (MS Office) and comfortable with data analysis. Willingness
to travel (local and international) and work under pressure.
DUTIES : Foreign trade research and analysis: Compile and analyse economic data,
update statistics and draft country briefings and reports. Stakeholder
management: Liaise with foreign missions, government departments and other
stakeholders; prepare meeting reports. Negotiations support: Provide technical
inputs to negotiating positions and convene preparatory consultations. Bi-
national Commission programme: Coordinate working groups, implement
project plans and prepare progress reports for the Binational Commission.
Reporting: Compile minutes, progress reports and contribute to monthly,
quarterly and annual reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to Coloured
Female, Coloured Male, White Male and persons with disabilities.
POST 17/113 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MIDDLE EAST BILATERAL RELATIONS REF NO:
TRADE-050
Overview: To conduct economic research and provide advice on the
preparation and execution of bilateral trade and investment relations with
countries in the Middle East region.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), (commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Mandatory Minimum Requirements: A qualification at NQF Level 7 in
Economics/ International Relations or International Law with an Economics
focus. 3-5 years’ experience in international Relations or International Law in
public or private sector environment. Key Requirements: Experience in foreign
trade research and economic analysis with focus on the Middle East region.
Ability to prepare country briefings, policy inputs and update economic
statistics. Stakeholder engagement experience with foreign missions and
internal stakeholders. Experience supporting trade negotiations and preparing
technical inputs. Project coordination and implementation experience for
bilateral programmes. Strong analytical and report-writing skills. Computer
literate (MS Office) and comfortable with research tools. Willingness to travel
(local & international) when required.
DUTIES : Foreign trade research and analysis: Compile and analyse economic data,
trends and developments; draft briefings and reports. Stakeholder
management: Maintain relations with foreign governments and participate in
interdepartmental meetings. Negotiations support: Provide technical inputs for
negotiating positions and support stakeholder consultations. Programme
coordination: Coordinate Binational Commission work, prepare progress
reports and implement action plans. Reporting: Compile meeting minutes,
progress reports and contribute to operational reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to Coloured
Female, Coloured Male, White Male and persons with disabilities.
POST 17/114 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MULTILATERALS REF NO: TRADE-070
Overview: To provide technical support, conduct research, analysis,
formulating policy recommendations and advising on international trade and
investment issues within multilateral fora.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), (commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
88
REQUIREMENTS : Mandatory Minimum Requirements: A qualification at NQF Level 7 in
Economic, International Law / International Relations or relevant qualifications.
3-5 years’ experience in Trade Research, international relations in public or
private sector environment. Key Requirements: Experience in trade research,
policy analysis and drafting briefing documents. Familiarity with multilateral fora
and negotiation processes. Stakeholder engagement and interdepartmental
coordination experience. Ability to prepare reports, position papers and country
briefings. Project management skills and experience in convening
consultations. Strong analytical, research and report-writing skills. Good
computer literacy (MS Office); ability to travel internationally. Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Research and analysis: Conduct research and compile briefing documents,
position papers and reports to support multilateral engagements. Stakeholder
management: Undertake consultations, participate in forums and build
relationships with internal and external stakeholders. Negotiation support:
Provide technical inputs and analytical support to negotiating teams and
engage with relevant institutions. Advocacy and coordination: Provide
helpdesk support on trade and investment matters and follow up on multilateral
issues. Reporting: Compile meeting reports, travel reports and regular
operational reports within agreed timeframes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to Coloured
Female, Coloured Male, White Male and persons with disabilities.
POST 17/115 : EXECUTIVE OFFICE MANAGER: OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY
DIRECTOR GENERAL REF NO: TRADE-003
Overview: To render effective functioning of the Office of the Deputy
Director Gen-eral within the Trade Policy Negotiation and Cooperation (TPNC)
Branch.
-
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Mandatory Minimum Requirements: A qualification at NQF 6 in Secretarial
Studies / Office Administration or Management / Public Administration /
Business Administration as recognised by SAQA. 3–5 years of experience in
rendering an office support service to Senior Management in a private or public
environment. Key Requirements: Proven experience providing high level
administrative support to senior managers (diary, meetings, briefings). Strong
office and records management skills, including National Archives complia-nce.
Excellent minutetaking, drafting and editing skills for correspondence and
briefing notes. Experience coordinating complex travel (local and international)
and protocol arra-ngements. Ability to coordinate meeting logistics and provide
secretariat support for governance structures. Confidentiality and discretion in
handling sensitive information and screening documentation. Good computer
literacy (MS Office) and experience with filing/MIS systems. Strong
interpersonal and stakeholder liaison skills across government and external
partners.
DUTIES : Executive office management and coordination: Manage administrative
operations of the DDG’s Office; supervise and coordinate support staff and
maintain office systems and registers. Executive administrative support to the
DDG: Manage and prioritise appointments and engagements; prepare
premeeting briefing packs; draft and quality assure correspondence and
submissions. Strategic coordination of submissions and information flow:
Scr-een and prioritise incoming documentat-ion; ensure timely flow of
submissions and confidential handling of sensitive matters. Meeting and
governance support: Coordinate meetings chaired or attended by the DDG;
compile meeting packs; record minutes and monitor implementation of
decisions. Stakeholder liaison and communication management: Act as
coordination point between the DDG’s Office, Ministry and internal/external
stakeholders; coordinate responses to parliamentary and stakeholder
enquiries. Financial and resource administration: Monitor the DDG Office
budget and expenditure; prepare documentation for budget adjustments and
liaise with CFO/Corporate services. Executive travel and event coordination:
Arrange travel, prepare itineraries and briefing notes; liaise with travel agencies
and manage protocol for international engagements.
89
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to Coloured
Female, Coloured Male, White Male and persons with disabilities.
POST 17/116 : B-BBEE COMPLIANCE AND ADVOCACY OFFICER REF NO: SID&ET-119
(X3 POSTS)
Overview: To perform investigation and enforcement functions to ensure
compliance with B-BBEE Act and report on complaints trends.
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Mandatory Minimum Requirements: NQF Level 6 qualification in Public
Administration or Business Administration/ Economic Science/ Law. 3-years’
relevant experience in an investigation and enforcement environment. Key
Requirements: Knowledge of the Constitution, PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
B-BBEE Act and compliance frameworks. Experience handling, screening and
analysing complaints within an enforcement or regulatory environment. Ability
to coordinate alternative dispute resolution processes and maintain associated
records. Strong written and verbal communication skills, including reporting.
Good administrative and organisational skills, including database tracking and
monitoring of turnaround times. Ability to work under pressure, travel when
required, and work flexible hours as needed. Proficiency in Microsoft Office and
complaints handling systems.
DUTIES : Complaints Handling: Handle complaints lodged with the Commission in line
with established procedures and processes. Develop and implement fast-track
procedures to attend to and resolve client complaints. Review complaints
handling systems and provide recommendations for efficiency improvement.
Conduct pro-active and reactive investigations and provide a report thereof.
Database and Tracking System: Maintain and update the database and
tracking system of complaints. Monitor compliance with turnaround times and
submit weekly reports on delays. Ensure complainants are informed of
reference numbers and progress. Screening and Analysis of Complaints:
Implement methodologies for complaint screening and analysis. Categorise
complaints and identify those for investigation or referral. Assess complaints
for referral to higher authorities or other institutions. Alternative Dispute
Resolution: Identify complaints suitable for alternative dispute resolution
(ADR). Coordinate and maintain consistency in ADR processes and
documentation. Record the number and nature of complaints resolved through
ADR. Reporting and Administrative Support: Produce progress reports on work
done as required. Perform administrative duties as allocated by the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African Male,
Coloured Female & Male, Indian Female & Male, White Male and persons with
disabilities.
POST 17/117 : B-BBEE INVESTIGATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICER REF NO:
SID&ET-117 (X2 POSTS)
Overview: To provide a secretarial and administrative function to the Chief
Director and facilitate the smooth administrative operation within the Chief
Directorate: Legal Services.
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Mandatory Minimum Requirements: Senior Certificate with a Secretarial
Certificate or Diploma. 1-2 years' experience in a Secretarial or Office
Management environment. Key Requirements: Experience providing
secretarial and administrative support to senior management. Strong
telephone, reception and diary management skills. Advanced typing, drafting
and document preparation skills. Experience compiling reports, maintaining
records and managing filing systems. Ability to coordinate meetings, prepare
agendas, take minutes and follow up on actions. Experience arranging travel,
accommodation and S&T claims, and handling office procurement. Good
computer literacy (Microsoft Office Packages) and ability to use standard office
equipment. Discretion, confidentiality and strong interpersonal skills in dealing
with stakeholders.
90
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial/receptionist support service to the manager: Receive
telephone calls, exercise discretion on call routing, finalize routine enquiries,
perform advanced typing and operate office equipment. Record the manager’s
engagements, manage appointment schedules and advise on the urgency of
meeting requests. Renders administrative support services: Ensure the
effective flow and safekeeping of information and documents, compile reports,
respond to enquiries and draft documents as requested. Coordinate travel
arrangements, prepare advances and S&T claims, handle accommodation
bookings and process stationery and office requisitions. Provides support to
manager regarding meetings: Scrutinise meeting documents, compile packs,
prepare briefing notes, record minutes and follow up on decisions and actions.
Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings and staff/unit sessions.
Supports the manager with the administration of the manager’s budget: Collect
and coordinate budget documents, assist with MTEF inputs, monitor
commitments and expenditure, and check BAS reports for correct allocation.
Provide administrative and financial support of the office: Arrange Chief
Directorate meetings, prepare annual schedules, support one-on-one
meetings, prepare agendas and minutes, and monitor office expenditure. Order
stationery and office equipment for the office: Ensure requisitions for goods
and services are processed after prior approval and that the office is properly
furnished.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African Male,
Coloured Female & Male, Indian Female & Male, White Male and persons with
disabilities.
POST 17/118 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: CMSB-007
Overview: To provide a secretarial and administrative function to the Chief
Director and facilitate the smooth administrative operation within the Chief
Directorate: Legal Services.
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Mandatory Minimum Requirements: Senior Certificate with a Secretarial
Certificate or Diploma. 1-2 years' experience in a Secretarial or Office
Management environment. Key Requirements: Experience providing
secretarial and administrative support to senior management. Strong
telephone, reception and diary management skills. Advanced typing, drafting
and document preparation skills. Experience compiling reports, maintaining
records and managing filing systems. Ability to coordinate meetings, prepare
agendas, take minutes and follow up on actions. Experience arranging travel,
accommodation and S&T claims, and handling office procurement. Good
computer literacy (Microsoft Office Packages) and ability to use standard office
equipment. Discretion, confidentiality and strong interpersonal skills in dealing
with stakeholders.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial/receptionist support service to the manager: Receive
telephone calls, exercise discretion on call routing, finalize routine enquiries,
perform advanced typing and operate office equipment. Record the manager’s
engagements, manage appointment schedules and advise on the urgency of
meeting requests. Renders administrative support services: Ensure the
effective flow and safekeeping of information and documents, compile reports,
respond to enquiries and draft documents as requested. Coordinate travel
arrangements, prepare advances and S&T claims, handle accommodation
bookings and process stationery and office requisitions. Provides support to
manager regarding meetings: Scrutinise meeting documents, compile packs,
prepare briefing notes, record minutes and follow up on decisions and actions.
Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings and staff/unit sessions.
Supports the manager with the administration of the manager’s budget: Collect
and coordinate budget documents, assist with MTEF inputs, monitor
commitments and expenditure, and check BAS reports for correct allocation.
Provide administrative and financial support of the office: Arrange Chief
Directorate meetings, prepare annual schedules, support one-on-one
meetings, prepare agendas and minutes, and monitor office expenditure. Order
stationery and office equipment for the office: Ensure requisitions for goods
and services are processed after prior approval and that the office is properly
furnished.
91
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African Male,
Coloured Female & Male, Indian Female & Male, White Male and persons with
disabilities.
92
ANNEXURE N
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 08 June 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It should be noted that the
National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. For SMS
positions certain candidates may be required to undergo additional
Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za .The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
93
OTHER POST
POST 17/119 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE
REF NO: S065/2026
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To provide adequate support in the assessment of policy alignment
and internal control processes in the adherence and execution pertaining to
the PFMA and other Financial Management policies and prescripts.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) in Financial Accounting or Auditing or Risk Management. A
minimum of 2 years’ experience obtained within an accounting environment
with specific reference to financial reporting, compliance monitoring, internal
control, and risk management. Knowledge and experience of exposure in
internal control. Knowledge and experience of exposure in financial reporting.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations.
DUTIES : Organizational Culture and Performance: Maintain the Entity database on
LOGIS, BAS, IFMS and Safety Web in accordance with relevant prescripts.
Administer the loss control in accordance with relevant prescripts. Verify the
basic accounting documents required for assessment and verification in line
with norms and standards. Oversee the departmental filling system pertaining
to accounting documents. Provide a verification structure in the administration
and maintenance of budget manager’s signatures. Update and review
Financial Management policies, prescripts, procedures and other corporate
governance documents. Organizational Resources Oversight: Provide advice
on financial year-end processes and preparation of annual financial
statements. Provide inputs and assist in preparation of the dissemination of the
required management reports. Provide inputs and assist in preparation of the
dissemination of the required management reports. Provide possible outcomes
of resolution to client’s queries. Maintain the loss control register. Policy
Analysis: Provide assistance and guidance to internal clients on changes
related to financial legislation and regulations. Assist in the overseeing and the
verification processes of financial management implementation. Assist with the
analysis of policy application and implementation pertaining to financial
management and related processes. Governance and Compliance: Assist in
the monitoring of the correct implementation of policies, strategies and policy
frameworks. Assist in the audit coordination process. Assist with the review of
the financial statements.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
94
ANNEXURE O
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za Other related documentation such as copies of
qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Candidates will be required
to complete a financial disclosure form and undergo security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must provide a police clearance
certificate from country of origin (only when shortlisted). The Department of
Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts,
the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996
(Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the
Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
hear from us within three (3) months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications will not be
considered. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/120 : DIRECTOR: BUSINESS MANAGEMENT REF NO: 050626/02
Branch: Infrastructure Management
Dir: Construction Management
Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma (NQF Level 7) qualification in
Business Management or Civil Engineering. A post graduate qualification in
Business Management or Engineering Management or MBA will serve as an
added advantage. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience at middle/senior
management level preferably within an infrastructure delivery environment. A
Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry certificate. Demonstrable knowledge of
PFMA, PPPFA, CIDB and SCM legislation. Demonstrate experience in
procurement management, infrastructure /construction business development.
Experience in stakeholder and relationship management. Demonstrated
experience in marketing and customer/client management. Exposure and skills
in negotiation and networking. Experience of infrastructure delivery
management. Exposure to the construction industry norms and practices.
Programme and Project Management and financial management. Risk
management, and business performance management systems. Presentation
and report writing skills. People management and empowerment.
95
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and direction for business development and
growth initiatives within the Departmental Construction Unit. Oversee the
development and implementation of marketing, branding and positioning
strategies for the Construction Unit. Direct and oversee the preparation, review
and submission of bids, tenders and proposals. Monitor industry trends,
infrastructure programmes and legislative developments to inform strategic
decision-making to benefit the Departmental Construction Unit. Provide
strategic oversight on stakeholder engagement, negotiations and partnership
management. Oversee the development and management of the Directorate’s
strategic plans, operational plans and budget. Lead and manage human
resources within the Directorate, including performance management, skills
development and transformation initiatives. Manage and improve strategic
relationships between the Construction Units with its clients and other industry
stakeholders. Lead the identification, evaluation and acquisition of construction
business opportunities. Ensure compliance with applicable legislation,
organisational policies and governance frameworks in all business
development activities. Monitor and evaluate business development
performance and implement continuous improvement initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Maraka Tel No: (012) 336 7073
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/121 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: 050626/01
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: EC
CD: Provincial Operations: Eastern Cape
Dir: Infrastructure Development Maintenance
SALARY : R1 317 108 – R1 504 797 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package). This
appointment will be made on the minimum notch of the salary range, however,
a higher notch within the salary range of Grade A will be considered based in
relation to the provisions of the Public Service Regulation 2016 as amended,
i.e. provision of the candidate’s current salary advice.
CENTRE : Qonce
REQUIREMENTS : An Engineering (B Eng./BSc Eng.) Degree or relevant qualification. Six (6)
years post qualification experience. Compulsory registration with Engineering
Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a professional Engineer (Details of
registration must be noted on the prescribed Z83 application form and CV).
The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Computer literacy (MS
Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Understanding of the
National Water Act, Water Services Act, National Environmental Management
Act, Public Service Regulations Act and the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Knowledge of contract, project and financial management.
Knowledge and understanding of operation and maintenance for water
services infrastructure. Good communication skills both (verbal and written).
Ability to communicate in all sectors of the Department and other institutions.
Must be able to work independently, be self-motivated and reliable.
DUTIES : Provide assistance in the design systems, structures and installation of water
services related to infrastructure. Support the comprehensive planning in water
services infrastructure. Manage multifaceted projects in the technical
investigation, development and refurbishment of water services infrastructure.
Provide assistance and support in administration. Inspect, test equipment,
infrastructure systems and installations including the preparation of reports on
the findings. Identify, review and comment on operation and maintenance plans
of water services infrastructure in the Region. Compile, review and comment
on contract documentation proposals, bill of quantities and tenders.
Coordination of the water services planning in the Region. Manage financial
allocations to projects and programs. Provide technical engineering support,
guidance and give advice to personnel on various levels, consultants,
contractors and water service authorities. Support functional arrears to arrange
supply chain management, human resources management and financial
needs. Provide mentoring and guidance to staff towards ECSA registration.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Z Nonjuzana Tel No: (043) 604 5413
96
POST 17/122 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION GRADE A - C REF NO: 050626/03
Branch: Water Resource Management
Dir: Water Information Integration
SD: Integrated Water Resource Studies
Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R791 604 – R1 189 767 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package), (Offer
will be based on proven years of experience)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Science degree (BSc) (Hon) in Hydrology or relevant qualification. A Master
of Science (MSc) will serve as an added advantage. Three (3) years post-
qualification Natural Science experience. Compulsory registration with
SACNASP as a Professional Natural Scientist. The disclosure of a valid,
unexpired driver’s license. Experience in conducting integrated water resource
studies (water quality, quantity and ecology). Experience in hydrological and
water quality modelling tools (WRSM2000, ACRU, WRYM, WRPM, HEC-HMS,
SWAT+, WQSAM). Experience in water resource data collection, analysis,
interpretation, presentation and derivation of information. Knowledge of water
information systems. Knowledge of geographical information systems (GIS)
tools (ArcMap and QGIS). The ability to apply scientific principles to integrate
and interpret water quality or quantity data to draw scientifically sound
conclusions. Understanding of research and development. Technical report
writing. Possesses a high-performance culture. Professional judgement. Data
analysis. Presentation skills. Decision-making and analytical skills. Creativity
and customer focus. Good communication skills, both verbal and written.
Problem-solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Conduct integrated water resource studies (quantity, quality, and ecology)
focusing on the impact of land use, water use activities, and climatic pressures
on water resources (surface and groundwater)- analysis of water resource
data, developing, configuring and setting up various integrated hydrological
and water quality models. Coordinate, analyse, and compile the national state
of water report. Compile monthly state of water bulletins. Compile quarterly
state of water quality bulletins. Liaise with water sector stakeholders, including
other Government Departments and the public, on water issues through
workshops and other facilitation techniques.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Joshua Rasifudi Tel No: (012) 336 6856
POST 17/123 : OFFICE MANAGER REF NO: 050626/04
Branch: Provincial and Entity Governance and International Cooperation
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Public Administration/ Management
/Governance or a relevant qualification. Five (5) years’ experience in general
administration /office management environment. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Extensive knowledge and understanding of public
service policies and administrative procedures. Basic financial management
and knowledge of PFMA. Knowledge of administrative procedures. Knowledge
in secretarial duties and functions. Computer literacy. Sound good
organizational and planning skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability.
Good communication, presentation and report writing skills. Ability to act with
fact and discretion. Knowledge of dispute resolution process. Understanding
of social and economic development issues. Understanding of legislative and
policy frameworks governing the sector. Knowledge of project management
and administration. Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the flow of information within the office of DDG. Render
administrative support services: Procurement of goods and services, ensure
that assets register is updated, assist with the coordination of monthly,
quarterly and annual reports. Quality assurance of documentation and remain
up to date with prescripts, policies and procedure applicable to work terrain to
ensure efficient support to the Office. Ensure effective records management
system for all submissions and correspondences. Arrange / organise
workshops and meetings. Represent Manager at certain meetings and
workshops. Manages queries of the office of the DDG Branch. Management of
financial and human resources. Assist during the compilation of budget in line
with MTEF, PFMA, advice and facilitate the process of budget projection with
all the project managers / Directorates within the Branch.
97
ENQUIRIES : Mr Vincent Molatana Tel No: (012) 336 8610
98
ANNEXURE P
DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
The mandate of the Department is to lead on socio-economic transformation and implementation of the
empowerment and participation of women, youth and persons with disabilities through mainstreaming,
advocacy, monitoring and evaluation.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided below: you
may forward your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The Director-
General, Department of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, Private
Bag X931, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively, applications may also be hand
delivered to 268 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Fedsure Forum Building, 1st floor, Pretoria
CBD. Another option is to submit application through email as a single scanned
document/one PDF attachment to the email addresses:
Recruitment01@dwypd.gov.za (kindly note that the emailed applications and
attachments should not exceed 15mb).
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form, which can be downloaded
from: http://www.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications submitted on the
old application for employment (Z83) will not be considered. All fields in the Z83
application form must be completed in full, in a manner that allows a selection
committee to assess the quality of a candidate based on the information
provided in the form. It is therefore prudent that fields be completed by
applicants and signed, noting the importance of the declaration. South African
applicants need not to provide passport numbers. Candidate must respond
“Yes “or “No “to the question whether you are conducting business with the
state. If “Yes”, details thereof only shortlisted candidates will submit Declaration
form for conducting business with the state when shortlisted to the application.
It is acceptable for applicant to indicate “not applicable” or leave a blank to the
question “In the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you
immediately relinquish such business interest?” Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents but must submit
the completed and signed Z83 and detailed Curricula Vitae. The
communication from HR of the Department regarding the requirement for
certified document will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidate for a post will be required to submit certified documents
on or before the day of the interview following communication from HR.
Applications received after the closing date will NOT be considered or
accepted. Correspondence is limited to short-listed candidates only; should
you not hear from us within six weeks of the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. Non-RSA citizens/permanent resident permit holders
must submit a copy only when shortlisted. Should you be in possession of a
foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from
the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Should you not hear from the
Department within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please consider your application to be unsuccessful. The Department reserves
the right not to fill and/or make an appointment to any of the advertised posts.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical skills that are generic requirements and
the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Further, personnel
suitability checks, including security vetting, competency assessment will be
conducted, as such transfer/promotion/appointment will made subject to
positive outcomes of personnel suitability checks. Successful candidates shall
be required to enter into performance agreement within three (3) months of
assuming their duties in the Department, and within one (1) month of the date
of their appointment conclude the prescribed contract of employment.
Designated employees shall be required to disclose their financial interest
within 30 days after assumption of duty. Appointments will only be made on the
first notch of the advertised salary level. Note that in terms of the Protection of
Personal Information Act, 2021, the Department will ensure the protection of
applicants ‘personal information and only collect, use and retain applicants’
personal information for the purposes of recruitment and selection processes.
The Department shall safeguard such personal information against access by
unauthorised persons, unlawful disclosure, or breaches. The Department is an
equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. In the filling of these posts,
It is the intention of the Department to promote representivity in the Public
99
Service through the filling of this position and the candidature of persons whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive
preference as the objectives of section 195 of the Constitution of the Republic
of South Africa and the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) will be
taken into consideration
OTHER POST
POST 17/124 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SOCIAL GOVERNANCE AND REGULATIONS
FOR THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN REF NO: DWYPD/007/2026
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate and Bachelor’s
degree (NQF Level 7) in Social or Human Sciences, Development Studies, or
Social Work. A valid driver’s licence is required. In addition, applicants must
have a minimum of three (3) years’ supervisory experience in a related field.
Knowledge: Initiatives that promote women’s social justice, empowerment and
participation; Gender related policies and frameworks; Departmental policies,
system protocols; knowledge, understanding and practice of Batho Pele
Principles. Skills: Problem solving and decision making; Time management;
Planning and organising; Customer focus and responsiveness; Good report
writing, verbal and written communication skills; Computer Literacy (MS Office
Suite); Diversity awareness; Applied strategic thinking; Continuous
improvement; People management and development; Team leadership.
Secondary: Basic Budgeting and Financial Management; Project
management; Networking and building bonds; Impact and influence; Diversity
management. Personal Attributes: Ability to perform effectively under pressure;
Analytical thinking; Good interpersonal and communication; Results focused;
High emotional intelligence; Solutions oriented; Passion and drive; Honesty
and Integrity; Ability to maintain confidentiality of information.
DUTIES : Coordinate the development and implementation of the policies and
legislations on social justice, empowerment and transformation of Women:
Provide inputs in the drafting of new policies or legislative proposals that
promote social justice, Women’s empowerment, Gender equality and
transformation; Identify gaps or challenges on the existing policies and propose
amendments where possible; Conduct research and gender analysis to inform
policy content; Collect data to ensure proposed laws align with constitutional
provisions and international commitments; Attend briefings with stakeholders
on policies identified for implementation; Compile reports on implemented
programmes. Participate in the development and implementation of a
regulatory framework on social justice, empowerment and participation of
Women: Participate in the consultation with relevant departments regarding
the review of the Nation Strategic Plan on Gander based Violence and
Femicide and Gender machinery framework; Participate in the coordination of
designated provincial stakeholders to ensure the effective implementation of
the Nation Strategic Plan on Gender based Violence and Femicide and Gender
machinery framework. Coordinate Stakeholders: Develop, update and
maintain the database of stakeholders; Follow-up and ensure that the
stakeholders implement the recommended decisions by the structures;
Resolve queries referred by stakeholders and provide information where
necessary; Ensure that the stakeholders participate in the programme
implementation; Handle enquiries on GBV related issues. Support the process
of developing and implementing monitoring and evaluation systems: Collect
and collate information on programmes initiatives. Create data base and
generate information one stop shop models. Develop project reporting
templates. Coordinate reporting by stakeholders and DWYPD(Provincial) and
ensure the reports are submitted on time. Serve as secretariat support for the
programme and engagements with stakeholders: Provide administrative
support for the Unit. Provide logistical arrangement support for the unit and the
projects. Provide general office support to the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Nomsa Nabo at 072 525 0096
General enquiries may be brought to the attention of Ms Lerato Segodi Tel No:
(012) 359 0073/ Mr Joseph Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 359 0238
NOTE : Preference will be given to African, Coloureds, Indian, Women, Youth and
Persons with Disabilities.
100
ANNEXURE Q
THE PRESIDENCY
The Presidency is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to promote
representivity (race, gender and disability). The candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will
promote representivity will receive preference. Candidates will be subjected to a security clearance up to
the level of “Top Secret”.
APPLICATIONS : The Presidency, Private Bag X1000, Pretoria, 0001 or Hand deliver at
Government Avenue, Union Buildings, Pretoria or by email:
applications@presidency.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms N Mshengu
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 at 16h30 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and include only TWO
(2) documents (Z83 & CV). A fully completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the Department of Public
Service and Administration (DPSA) website link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a detailed updated Curriculum
Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
Identity Document, Grade 12 Certificate and the highest required qualifications
as well as a driver’ s licence where necessary, to Human Resources on or
before the day of the interview. Failure to do so will result in your application
being disqualified. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an
evaluation report issued by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by
SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation report (only when shortlisted).
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
the large number of applications we envisage to receive, correspondence will
be limited to successful candidates only, applications will however be
acknowledged by auto response. Should you not be contacted within 3 months
of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department be affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: The Department
reserves the right not to fill a position. Shortlisted candidates will be required
to be available for interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to Personnel Suitability
Checks, which may include social media profiles of the shortlisted candidates
and pre-employment screening to determine the suitability of a person for
employment. Applicants must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any
other allegations or investigations against them. Should this be uncovered
during / after the interview took place, the application will not be considered
and in the unlikely event that the person has been appointed such appointment
will be terminated. The successful candidate will be required to enter into the
SMS employment contract and a performance agreement. The requirements
for appointment at Senior Management Service (SMS) level will be the
completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government (NSG). Shortlisted candidates should
therefore provide proof (prior to the interviews) that they have registered for the
SMS Pre-Entry programme, which can be accessed using the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/ and a
generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency based assessments).The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Failure to submit the requested two (2)
documents on application, will result in your not being considered. In addition,
the successful candidates will be required to disclose their financial interests.
101
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/125 : DIRECTOR: SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (SEIAS)
REF NO: SEIAS/PRES/2026
Branch: Policy and Research Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate Degree in Economics/Social
Science/Public Policy/ Research or equivalent qualification (NQF level 7). A
postgraduate qualification will be an added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’
middle/senior managerial experience. Competencies: Communication, both
oral and writing. Client orientation and customer focus. Honesty and integrity.
Reliability. Service delivery innovation. Willing to work extended hours, when
necessary. Initiative. Problem solving and analysis. Knowledge management.
Financial management. Strategic capability leadership. Program and project
management. People management and empowerment. Change Management.
Stakeholder management. Knowledge: In depth understanding of the Public
Service Regulatory Framework. Good understanding of Government public
policies, programmes, strategies, plans and systems. Good knowledge and
ability to use appropriate Research, Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation
tools and techniques. Knowledge of conducting socio-economic impact
assessment or regulatory impact assessment on public policies.
DUTIES : Provide guidance and support to Government on implementation of SEIAS and
the National Policy Development Framework to achieve evidence-based policy
formulation. Analyse and quality assure SEIAS reports of Departments.
Produce SEIAS related knowledge products such as articles, policy briefs and
advisory notes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Venter Tel No: (012) 300 5272 OR Ms K Madiseng Tel No: (012) 308
1806 OR Ms N Ramontja Tel No: (012) 300 5483
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: SEIAS/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
POST 17/126 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE OPERATIONS REF NO:
HROPS/PRES/2026
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate degree/ or equivalent (NQF level 7). A
Minimum of 5 years’ middle/senior managerial experience. Process
competencies: Communication, both oral and written. Client orientation and
customer focus. Honesty and integrity. Service delivery innovation. Willing to
work extended hours, when necessary. Problem-solving and analysis.
Knowledge Management: In-depth understanding of the Public Service
Regulatory Framework. In-depth understanding of the Public Service Act.
Good understanding of government policies, programmes, strategies, projects
and plans. Government systems. Good knowledge and ability to use
appropriate research methodologies. Monitoring and evaluation methods, tools
and techniques. Knowledge of assessment and review techniques. Core
competencies: Financial management. Strategic capability leadership.
Program and project management. People management and empowerment.
Change Management. Stakeholder management.
DUTIES : Responsible for the management of the performance of the following sub-units:
Talent Acquisition, Conditions of Service, and Labour Relations in relation to
the performance standards set out for output & projects. Develop, maintain and
execute HR strategic objectives of The Presidency. Responsible for the
enhancement of Co-ordinated information and establishment management
and coordinate the HR oversight for the Department. Support and advise all
stakeholders on HR best practices proactively. Manage and grow stakeholder
relationships between internal and external stakeholders in relation to Talent
Acquisition, Conditions of Service and Labour Relations matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Futhane Tel No: (012) 300 5995
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: HROPS/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
102
POST 17/127 : DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT REF NO:
STRATEGIC/PRES/2026
Chief Directorate: Office of the Chief Operations
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate degree/ or equivalent (NQF level 7) in
Social or Public Management. A Minimum of 5 years’ middle/senior managerial
experience. Competencies: Communication, both oral and writing. Client
orientation and customer focus. Honesty and integrity. Service delivery
innovation. Knowledge Management: Financial management. Problem solving
and analysis. Operational capability leadership. Program and project
management. People management and empowerment Change Management.
Public Service Regulatory Framework. Policy formulation process within
Government. Business and management principles involved in strategic
planning, resource allocation, human resource modelling and leadership
technique. Monitoring and evaluation methods, tools and techniques.
DUTIES : Oversee the execution and compliance of strategic planning and annual
operational planning process. Coordinate the development of the Strategic
Plans, Annual Performance Plans and Annual operational plans. Facilitate first
strategic planning engagements for the development of the APP. Oversee and
monitor the performance of The Presidency on a quarterly and annual basis.
Compile the in-year and the end-of-year performance information reports to
ensure that policies and procedures are maintained for performance
information so as to keep them relevant and updated with all legislative
changes. Oversee quarterly performance review sessions to enable the
Accounting Officer an opportunity to interface with management to the
achievement of the performance targets and pre-determined commitments
against action plan. Coordinate the review of mid-term and end of term
performance. Coordinate collection of inputs for all required reporting
processes. Compile and submit three monthly GBVF reports per quarter.
Compile and submit one Presidency audit matrix report per quarter. Coordinate
collection of inputs and compile MTDP bi-annual report. Finalise and
coordinate submission of Mid-year and End-of-Term Review. Interact with
Budget Office and HR with regards to aligning the operational plan with the
resource plans- therefore compile all necessary performance information in
appropriate inputs for the ENE and AENE, inputs into HR plans etc. Quality
assure the performance information before the presentation to the Executive
Authority, Accounting Officer, Branch Heads, Audit Committee, National
Treasury, Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation as well as
Auditor-General. Ensure a safe storage of performance information for the
purpose of publishing quality data.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mphahlele Tel No: (012) 300 5865
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: STRATEGIC/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/128 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: ADMIN/PRES/2026
Office of the Chief Operations Officer
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate Bachelor’s Degree or qualification on
NQF level 6. A minimum of 3-4 years’ middle management experience.
Competencies: Be professional, highly motivated, initiative and critical thinker
who will be able to gather and analyse information skilfully. Hands-on executive
secretarial experience in offering services to the President. Have excellent
interpersonal skills. Have excellent organizational and planning skills and
ability to work on multiple projects simultaneously. Have sense of urgency and
ability to identify, analyse and resolve problems in a timely manner. Be able to
work independently and as part of a team and also work well under pressure.
Excellent telephone etiquette. Have project management skills. Have effective
oral and written communication skills. Good office management skills. Be able
to handle confidential matters and has integrity and is trustworthy. Knowledge
management: Good understanding of protocol and security measures. Good
103
computer knowledge. Good knowledge of travel and subsistence procedures.
Good understanding of Public Service Regulatory Framework.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the Office of the Chief Operations Officer.
Provide secretariat support to MANCO and all Chief Operations Officer's
meetings. Develop, maintain and enforce an integrated governance calendar
covering MANCO, bilateral engagements, subcommittees and COO-led
coordination forums. Provide full secretariat and coordination support across
all governance structures (including agenda setting, documentation, minutes
and resolution tracking). Coordinate and support COO bilateral engagements
with key stakeholders (including SITA, DPWI, NT and others). Support COO-
led cross-functional coordination forums and operational committees (including
strategic initiatives and inter-branch working groups where required). Track
implementation of decisions arising from MANCO, bilaterals and coordination
forums, and follow up on action items. Identify and escalate unresolved
coordination issues and implementation bottlenecks to the COO. Receive,
assess and process submissions and correspondence to the Accounting
Officer in line with defined standards. Verify completeness, quality and
compliance of submissions prior to escalation. Maintain and update
submissions and correspondence tracking database. Monitor turnaround times
and ensure adherence to service standards. Follow up on instructions,
decisions and actions arising from submissions. Provide administrative and
coordination support for submission workflows. Compile and submit quarterly
reports on submissions and correspondence processed and turnaround
performance. Efficient financial management and budget control. Provide
administrative support to the Chief Operations Officer in her/his role as Deputy
Secretary of Cabinet. Administration of the Promotion of Access to Information
Act, (Act No 2 of 2000) and Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (Act no. 3
of 2000). Administer the Integrated Document Management System (IDMS) to
track incoming and outgoing documents in the Office of the Chief Operations
Officer. Administer the delegations register for Chief Operations Officer.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. K Futhane Tel No: (012) 300 5995
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: ADMIN/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
POST 17/129 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT AND LIBRARY
SERVICES REF NO: KMLS/PRES/2026
Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate Diploma/Advance Certificate OR
equivalent qualification on NQF level 6. A minimum of 3-4 years’ middle
management experience. Competencies: Communication, both oral and
writing. Client orientation and customer focus. Honesty and integrity. Service
delivery innovation. Planning and execution. Knowledge Management:
Problem solving and analysis. Program and Project Management. People
Management and Empowerment Change Management. Public Service
Regulatory Framework. Policy formulation process within Government.
Monitoring and evaluation methods, tools and techniques. Facility
Management. Public Finance Management Act. Treasury Regulations.
Contract Management and specification.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership, management and oversight for Knowledge
Management, Library Services, Records Management, Registry Services,
Switchboard and Telephone Services within The Presidency. Develop,
implement and monitor Knowledge Management strategies, frameworks,
policies and systems aligned to the DPSA Knowledge Management
Framework, National Archives and Records Service of South Africa (NARSSA)
requirements and broader government digital transformation objectives. Drive
the establishment of an integrated institutional Knowledge Management
environment to support organisational learning, knowledge sharing, decision-
making, business continuity and preservation of institutional memory within
The Presidency. Oversee the acquisition, management, preservation and
accessibility of information resources, library collections, digital repositories
and knowledge products to support senior management, operational and
strategic requirements. Manage and modernise Library and Information
Services, including electronic information resources, cataloguing systems,
research support services and digital knowledge platforms. Ensure effective
104
Records Management governance and compliance with the NARSSA, related
regulations, records classification systems, file plans and approved records
management practices. Oversee the implementation, monitoring and
compliance of the IDMS and other approved electronic records management
systems. Coordinate the transfer, preservation and disposal of records in
collaboration with the National Archives and ensure safe custody of institutional
records and correspondence. Lead the reconfiguration, standardisation and
centralisation of Registry Services and Mini-Registries to enhance operational
efficiency, governance and service delivery. Develop and implement Records
Management policies, Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), guidelines and
awareness programmes to strengthen records governance and compliance
across the Department. Oversee and manage the Telephone and Switchboard
Services to ensure operational effectiveness, service continuity and alignment
with ICT infrastructure and communication standards. Manage special projects
and strategic initiatives relating to Auxiliary Services, office support systems,
digitisation, information governance and operational improvement initiatives.
Manage human, financial and physical resources within the Directorate in
accordance with relevant legislation, policies, prescripts and governance
frameworks. Establish and maintain effective stakeholder relationships with
internal business units, DPSA, NARSSA, SITA and other relevant government
institutions relating to Knowledge and Information Management matters.
Prepare strategic, operational and compliance reports for management
structures and governance committees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. K Futhane Tel No: (012) 300 5995
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: KMLS/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
POST 17/130 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROTOCOL AND CEREMONIAL SERVICES REF NO:
PROTOCOL/PRES/2026
Chief Directorate: Protocol and Ceremonial Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma/Advanced Certificate
or equivalent on NQF level 6. A minimum of 3-4 years’ middle management
experience in Protocol and Ceremonial Services. Must possess a valid driver’s
licence. Candidate must have the following competencies: Be professional,
highly motivated, initiative and critical thinker who will be able to gather and
analyse information skillfully. Hands-on logistical experience in offering
Protocol and Ceremonial services to the President and the Deputy President.
Have excellent interpersonal skills. Have excellent organizational and planning
skills and ability to work on multiple projects simultaneously. Have sense of
urgency and ability to identify, analyse and resolve problems in a timely
manner. Be able to work independently and as part of a team and also work
well under pressure. Excellent telephone etiquette. Have projects management
skills. Have good report writing skills. Have effective oral and written
communication skills. Good office management skills. Be able to handle
confidential matters, have integrity and be trustworthy. Knowledge: Good
understanding of protocol and security measures. Good computer knowledge.
Good knowledge of travel and subsistence procedures. Willingness to travel
local and internal. Good understanding of Public Service Regulation
Framework.
DUTIES : Providing of protocol and ceremonial support in accordance with national and
international policies and procedures. The implementation of and adherence to
protocol policies and procedures. Conducting of research on protocol in
respect of other countries as requested/required. Advising and support of
‘clients”. Ensure compliance, maintenance and management of protocol on all
events. Consult with stakeholders. Oversee overall logistical arrangements for
all events attended by the President or Deputy President. Establish and ensure
that sitting arrangements is in hierarchical order. Assist with development of
programmes and develop order of proceedings. Liaise with the Presidential
Protection Service Planning unit in coordination of events. Coordinate, review
and consolidate directorate’s inputs for the medium-term expenditure
framework (MTEF) and estimates of national expenditure (ENE).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P Seopa Tel No: (012) 308 1779
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: PROTOCOL/PRES/2026 (with no spaces).
105
POST 17/131 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: AUDIT/PRES/2026
Directorate: Internal Audit
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate Bachelor Degree/advanced Diploma
at NQF level 7 with majors in Auditing/Internal Auditing and Accounting. A
minimum of 3 – 5 years’ experience in Internal Auditing. A valid driver’s licence.
Added advantage: Certifications such as CIA, CGAP, CRMA, PIA and IAT;
Membership with IIASA. Competencies: Public Service Regulatory
Framework, communication and information management, teamwork and co-
operation, Program and project management, Problem solving and decision
making, critical thinking and IIA Global Internal Audit competency framework.
Knowledge of Internal Audit Standards. Understanding of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations and guidelines. Knowledge of
government financial systems, Knowledge of frameworks for managing
performance information. People and diversity management. Client orientation
and customer focus. Good communication skills both (verbal and written)
Computer literacy, including Microsoft Office applications. Accountability and
ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Implement operational plan, identification and assessment of risks at project
level, performance of field work on the allocated audit projects to determine the
adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal control, risk management
and governance in the working papers, preparation of a complete audit file for
review by Deputy Director; Study policies and procedures, Perform pre-
planning survey, Gather information and conduct analysis of business
information, Document system description/ process flow, Perform walk through
tests, Develop a risk and control matrix (identify critical control risks, root
causes and Impact), Develop the engagement audit programme for testing,
Audit Engagement Execution, Sample selection for audit coverage. Execute
the audit procedures, Complete the working papers, Raise the exception and
discuss them with the auditee and audit supervisor, File the supporting
document / evidence, Ensure that working papers are signed off by the audit
supervisor, Make proper indexing & cross-referencing. Assist in classification
of exceptions. Compile draft report for each engagement, Attend audit opening
and exit meetings, Compile minutes of opening and exit meetings, Complete
and distribute the client satisfaction survey, Complete the audit file review
index/ checklist to ensure it is property cross referenced to working papers,
Conducting monitoring progress/ follow-up audits on management action
plans, Assist in reporting the monitoring progress status to management,
Attending of Unit meetings, workshops, training and development; Perform all
administrative tasks as allocated by supervisor, Timeously notify the
supervisors of any incidents that may affect the deadline of the allocated audit
projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Nelufule Tel No: (012) 300 5371
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: AUDIT/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
POST 17/132 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EVENTS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
EVENTS/PRES/2026
Directorate: Events Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma/advanced Certificate
or equivalent on NQF level 6. A minimum of 3-4 years’ applicable experience
in field of events. Competencies: Computer skill especially typing speed, typing
documents in a short period correctly without spelling errors. Be professional,
highly motivated, initiative and critical thinker who will be able to gather and
analyse information skilfully. Have excellent interpersonal skill. Have excellent
organisational and planning skills, ability to work multiple project
simultaneously. Have a sense of urgency and ability to identify, analyse and
resolve problems in a timely manner. Be able to work independently and as
part of a team and work well under pressure. Excellent telephone etiquette.
Have project management skills. Have effective oral and written
communication skills. Good office management skills and be able to handle
106
confidential matters and has integrity and is trustworthy. Knowledge: Good
understanding of protocol and security measures. Good computer knowledge.
Good knowledge of travel and subsistence procedure. Good understanding of
Public Service Regulatory Framework.
DUTIES : Planning, organising and Managing Events. Prepare written reports and
drafting monthly report. Budgeting and financial management. Managing and
maintaining electronic database in the Unit. Managing the documents filing
system. Managing relations with stakeholders and clients. Assists in drafting
the unit and branch strategy and annual report. Assist in developing the Unit
Operational plans. Monitoring of services rendered by service providers in
respect of quality and cost. Rendering of on-site technical support and advice
at the events. And reporting on the outcome and success of events.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Kawe Tel No: (012) 300 5254
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: EVENTS/PRES/2026 (with no spaces).
POST 17/133 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY REF NO:
OHS/PRES/2026
Directorate: Internal Security
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma/NQF level 6 or
Bachelor’s Degree /Bachelor of Technology (BTech) in Safety Management OR
equivalent qualification. A minimum of 3-4 years’ experience in Health and
Safety in a Corporate organisation, Public Sector or State Owned entities or
organ of state. Competencies: Be professional, highly motivated, initiative and
critical thinker who will be able to gather and analyse information skilfully. Good
interpersonal skills. Have excellent organisational and planning skills. Ability to
read and analyse official documents. Have a good presentation, facilitation and
training skills. Have average understanding of information security and
document management. Be able to work independently as part of a team and
under pressure. Have a project management knowledge and experience.
Confidentiality, integrity and trust. Knowledge: Problem solving and analysis.
Good compute and capturing skills. Knowledge of classification of information.
Knowledge of treasury regulations, project management, construction
regulation, built environment, procurement directives and procedure. Have
effective oral and written communication skills. Have advance numeracy and
budgeting skills. Knowledge of the National Strategic Intelligence Act 1994(act
39 of 1994). Protection of information Act 2000 (Act 84 of 2000). The national
vetting Strategy in the Public Sector. Minimum Information Security Standards
(MISS) and Criminal Procedure Act 1997 (Act 51 of 1997). Occupational Health
and Safety Act, 1993 (Act 85 of 1993). Have good knowledge of policy analysis
and development and good office management skills.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and review OHS Policies; Develop and implement OHS
Standard Operating Procedures, Frameworks and Internal Controls; Develop
and implement Injury on Duty and Incident Standard Operating Procedures;
Establish and facilitate OHS Committee meetings; Establish and facilitate
Emergency Response Teams; Develop training matrix and facilitate workshops
and inductions; Create awareness campaigns on safety requirements and
protocols; oversee the compliance of service providers on safety
management; Develop and implement Emergency Response Plans (ERP);
Facilitate emergency preparedness drills; Conduct risk assessment and
develop OHS Risk Register; Conduct inspections and provide reports; Provide
reports on OHS activities; Conduct incident investigations and develop and
manage incident register; perform adhoc activities as delegated
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Buthelezi Tel No: (012) 308 1607
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: OHS/PRES/2026 (with no spaces).
POST 17/134 : CATERING MANAGER REF NO: CATERING/PRES/2026
Directorate: Accommodation and Households
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma or equivalent on NQF
level 6 in Catering Management or related field in Culinary Studies. Minimum
107
of 3-4 years’ working experience as an Executive Chef or Sous Chef in a five-
star hotel or equivalent hospitality establishment. Sound knowledge and
experience in managing daily kitchen operations, supervising staff and
ensuring food quality. Competencies: Good communication skills (both oral and
writing) client orientated, customer focused, honest, have integrity and be
innovative and creative. Willing to work extended hours when necessary and
working under pressure. Execute healthy, delicious and beautiful well-
presented meals, in a very short notice. Have knowledge of health and Safety
within the Hospitality Industry. Be up to date with the latest food trends and be
able to execute these menus. Teach, develop and inspire subordinates.
Develop a focus on food and excellent service.
DUTIES : Co-ordination and execution of cooking and catering for functions e.g.
Banquets, Formal Events, Meetings and Family Meals. Managing and co-
ordinating the preparation and service of food, beverages, setting-up of tables
and room or venue in accordance with standards and specifications (menu,
type of function and preferences of the Principal). Contribute in overall event
planning. Liaise with Household Manager discuss menus, special
arrangements, serving plans (waiters) of all Catering in the Residence for the
day. Determine how food should be presented and create decorative food
displays. Attend to Principals and Guests personal preferences, dietary
restrictions and requirements. Setting and maintain the standard for
preparation of food and beverages and ensure a healthy environment and that
the general objectives of the household are achieved. Obtain guest lists and
make logistical arrangements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Manase Tel No: (012) 342 2566
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: CATERING/PRES/2026 (with no spaces).
POST 17/135 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FACILITIES REF NO: FACILITIES/PRES/2026
Directorate: Accommodations and Households
SALARY : R487 197per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus a National diploma qualification on NQF level 6 in
either Hospitality Management or Heritage/Museum Management/ Facilities
Management (or similar). A minimum of 3 to 4 years’ appropriate experience in
a Heritage Site. Competencies: Communication, both oral and writing. Client
orientation and customer focus. Honesty and integrity. Service deliver and
innovation. Planning and execution. Knowledge Management: Problem solving
and analysis. Program and Project Management. People management and
Empowerment Change Management. Public Service Regulation Framework.
Policy formulation process within Government. Monitoring and evaluation
method, tools and technique. Facilities and venue management. Public
Finance Management Act. Treasury Regulations. Contract and service
provider management. Knowledge of the National Heritage Resources Act and
the World Heritage Convention Act.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee the operation of the facilities section (soft services:
cleaning and hygiene) to ensure a clean, neat, hygienic and safe working
environment. Manage the cleaning of office, public areas and hygiene services.
Oversee restaurant services and manage conference venues. Support the
preservation and presentation of historically and culturally significant spaces
through appropriate operational care, maintenance co-ordination and
adherence to heritage sensitive facility practices. Oversee delivery and
maintenance of indoor plants and flower arrangements. Manage stores and
preparations of all the venues and areas to be used during states and official
visits. Manage the electronic reporting system. Co-ordinate all Ensure the
efficient and cost-effective administration of soft service (cleaning and hygiene)
operations budget. Monitor all soft services contract performance and develop
operational plan. Manage quality customer service and Project management
within the soft services. Ensure that facilities operations are cost effective and
efficient within estimated budget constraints. Ensure compliance with OHS
regulations, operational risk management procedures and institutional safety
directives. Oversee the procurement of soft services and related equipment
and ensure that invoices discrepancies are promptly tracked and resolved.
Ensure that access and escorts are arranged for sort services activities.
Manage and arrange official documentation and activities with regards to the
staff managed and also on work related matters with regards to the staff
108
managed to ensure effective administration. Arrange training. Develop and
promote effective work programs. Assist and participate in the management of
the unit by the compiling of reports and convening meetings to ensure that soft
services (cleaning and hygiene) delivery is effective and efficient.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Makondzo Tel No: (012) 300 5425
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: FACILITIES/PRES/2026 (with no spaces).
POST 17/136 : SENIOR COMMUNICATION OFFICER: GRAPHIC DESIGNER REF NO:
COMMUNICATION/PRES/2026
Communication and Research Management Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate Diploma, Advanced Certificate or
equivalent qualification at NQF Level 6 in Graphic Design, Digital Media,
Multimedia Design, Visual Communication or a related field. A minimum of 3
years’ experience in graphic design, digital content creation, photography,
videography and multimedia production. Applicants must include a portfolio of
recent work in PDF format showcasing graphic design, photography, video
production and multimedia content creation capabilities. Competencies and
skills: Excellent conceptual, creative and visual design skills. Strong
photography and videography capabilities, including the ability to capture, edit
and package content into professional multimedia products. Proficiency in
multimedia editing software and digital content production tools, including
graphic design, photo editing, video editing and audio editing software.
Knowledge of digital camera operation, lighting, image composition, digital
image manipulation, video production and post-production processes.
Experience in creating content for print, web, social media, presentations and
internal communication platforms. Good interpersonal and communication
skills. Computer literacy. Ability to work under pressure, manage multiple
projects and meet tight deadlines. Self-motivated, innovative and detail-
oriented.
DUTIES : Support the Corporate Communication Unit in the conceptualisation, design
and production of multimedia communication products across print and digital
platforms. Develop visual, photographic, video and audio content for
publications, campaigns, presentations and digital communication platforms.
Capture and edit professional photographs and video footage for
organisational events, campaigns and communication initiatives. Edit and
package multimedia content into high-quality products suitable for internal and
external communication purposes. Assist in the coordination and
implementation of communication and public awareness campaigns. Provide
design and photographic support for publications such as The Presidency
Annual Report, newsletters, brochures, pamphlets, presentations, internet and
intranet platforms and social media content. Operate and maintain multimedia
production equipment and software. Assist with publication planning, content
distribution and responding to public requests for communication material.
Participate in the development and implementation of communication
strategies and support the procurement and management of internal
communication material.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Nothling Tel No: (012) 308 1722
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: COMMUNICATION/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
POST 17/137 : PRACTITIONER: RISK AND BUSINESS CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT REF
NO: RISK/PRES/2026
Directorate: Risk Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus an NQF Level 6 Diploma/Advanced Certificate in Risk
Management/ Accounting/ Internal Auditing/ Social Science or equivalent
qualification. A minimum of 1-2 years’ experience in the in the field of Risk and
Business Continuity Management. Competencies: Project Management Skills;
Effective oral and written communication skills; Good understanding of
governance. Be professional, highly motivated, Analytical (ability to gather and
analyse information); Good interpersonal skills; Good organisational and
109
planning skills and ability to work on multiple projects simultaneously; Have a
sense of urgency and ability to identify, analyse and resolve problems in a
timely manner; Be able to work independently and also as part of a team;
Knowledge: In depth understanding of the Public Sector Risk Management
Framework, Public Finance Management Act, Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations., the Disaster Management Act Occupational Health and
Safety Act Good understanding of Policy formulation process within
Government. Good understanding of business and management principles
involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, human resource modelling
and leadership techniques. Understanding of monitoring and evaluation
methods, tools and techniques. Monitoring and evaluation methods, tools and
techniques.
DUTIES : Assist the Directorate in coordinating departmental Strategic and Operational
risk assessment workshops and compile risk registers. Capture risks in all
workshops. Compile the audit findings tracking system to inform the drafting,
evaluation, analysis and review of risks in the departmental risk registers.
Compile quarterly strategic and operational mitigation progress reports. Draft
a quarterly risk mitigation analysis report. Issue the risk analysis mitigation
report to the Risk Management Committee (RMC). Assist in providing
administrative support to the Risk Management Committee. Compile meeting
packs for the RMC Chair and Director; Risk Management. Assist with logistical
arrangements for RMC meetings including special meetings. Prepare the
payment of the external RMC Members. Assist in providing administrative
support in executing Risk and BCM Functions. Logistical arrangements for
awareness sessions. Co-facilitate the procurement of promotional material.
Develop a schedule for risk workshops with all the Branches and confirm their
availability. Assist in developing specifications and proposals for acquisition of
services as and when required. Coordinate the budget of the Directorate serve
as Chief User Clerk. Maintain proper filling/record keeping system for all
expenses incurred and/records generated by the Directorate. Manage asset
registers for the Directorate. Provide assistance in implementing the Business
Continuity Programme. Assist in coordinating meetings for Business Continuity
Champions. Capture BCM risks as part of the BCM Risk Register. Assist in the
developments of Business Continuity Plans and BC Response Plans and serve
as first point of contact on BCM arrangements. Liaise with Stakeholders on
BCM arrangements such as the Metropolitan Municipalities concerning the
Contingency Management Plans. Assist in conducting Business Impact
Analysis in the compilation of inputs from Branches/Units/Directorates and
statistical reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 300 5378
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state ONLY the Reference
number: RISK/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
POST 17/138 : SUPPLY CHAIN OFFICER: ACQUISITION Ref no:
ACQUISITON/PRES/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate three (3) years Degree/ National
Diploma in Supply Chain Management/Logistics/Procurement or equivalent
qualification on NQF level 6. A Minimum of 1 - 2 years' experience in a Supply
Chain Management environment. Core Competencies: Communication, both
oral and writing. Client orientation and customer focus. Honesty and integrity,
Service delivery innovation, Knowledge Management, Financial management.,
Problem solving Management and analysis, Programme and project
management., Public Service Regulatory Framework. Policy formulation
process within Government, Monitoring and evaluation methods, tools and
techniques.
DUTIES : Processing of quotations for goods and services: Request quotation for goods
and services, Source quotations from Preferential Service Providers listed on
CSD and compliance on tax issues, and Send them to the End-User.
Processing of applications for purchase: Check if the Application for purchase
was signed by Responsibility Manager, Check if the Procurement need was on
Demand Plan, Check if the Banking Details of the Supplier was verified on
CSD, Check if there is fund under relevant item code, Attach supporting
documents as SBD, BEE Certificate, Check if the Supplier tax matters are in
110
order, Compile Comparative schedule and Attach on document, Submitting
motivation and comments on attached checklist. Administration of bids:
Preparing bid documents, Process of bids including approval, specification,
advertising, of bids, Liaise the delivery dates with service provider, Submit Tax
Invoices to be paid within 30 days, Submit monthly reports for expenditure
within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Selomo Tel No: (012) 300 5951
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: ACQUISITION/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
POST 17/139 : SUPPLY CHAIN OFFICER: HELPDESK REF NO: HELPDESK/PRES/2026
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus an appropriate three (3) years Degree/ National
Diploma or equivalent qualification on NQF level 6 in Logistics/Supply Chain
Management/Public Administration/Management. A Minimum of 1 – 2 years'
experience in a Supply Chain Management environment. Core Competencies:
Communication, both oral and writing. Client orientation and customer focus.
Honesty and integrity, Service delivery innovation, Knowledge Management,
Financial management., Problem solving Management and analysis,
Programme and project management., Public Service Regulatory Framework.
Policy formulation process within Government, Monitoring and evaluation
methods, tools and techniques.
DUTIES : Receive and process applications or requests from helpdesk. Request
quotations using the database, evaluate quotations. Provide updates on the
progress of the requests for quotations as well as the applications for purchase.
Submit stats relating to work done to the Supervisor. Attend to queries. Assist
with bids when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Selomo Tel No: (012) 300 5951
NOTE : NB: Email applications must on the subject line state only the Reference
number: HELPDESK/PRES/2026 (with no spaces)
111
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be done at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form. “Applicants are advised that
from 1 January 2021, a new application for employment (Z83) form will be
effective which can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1
January 2021 should an application be received using the incorrect application
for employment (Z83), it will not be considered.”. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Therefore, only shortlisted
candidates for a post will be required to submit certified documents on or before
the day of the interview following communication from HR. Successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) is
required for being considered for this SMS post prior to appointment.
Enrolment for the course should be made on the NSG’s website at
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme.
Applicants will be expected to be available for selection interviews and
assessments at a time, date and place as determined by the Department. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The successful candidate
must disclose to the Head of Department particulars of all registrable financial
interests, sign a performance agreement and employment contract with the
Head of Department within three months from the date of assumption of duty.
Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied
by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. The
recommended candidate(s) for OSD production posts MUST submit endorsed
service certificates from the previous employer and endorsed Persal service
records where applicable within 2 days of accepting the offer. The Department
does not accept applications via fax or email. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence
will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. The employment offer to
successful candidate will be subject to verified educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship check, reference checks and security vetting.
Please note: Correspondence will only be entered into with short-listed
candidates. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. Successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of 12 months. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be expected
to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representativity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/140 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: INTERNAL MEDICINE (CLINICAL
HAEMATOLOGY): GRADE1-3: REF NO: H/M/36/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 – R1 479 723 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 – R1 688 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 884 151 – R2 301 186 per annum
all -inclusive package consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion
that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical Aid (Optional)
Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
112
CENTRE : Univeristas Academic Hospital: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Current valid registration with HPCSA AS Medical Specialist in Internal
Medicine. Current registration with the HPCSA for period of 2026/2027.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical Specialist with Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in respect of South Africa
qualified employees. Valid driver's license. Be a South African citizen or be a
permanent resident. A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as Medical
Specialist in a normal Specialty. A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience
as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign
Health professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as
Medical Specialist in a normal Specialty. Knowledge and skills: Experience in
teaching and learning medical students and registrars. Knowledge of Public
service legislation, policies and procedures. Excellent time management,
written and verbal communication skills and report writing skills. Good-
interpersonal skills with colleagues and other departments. Honesty, integrity
and high work ethics.
DUTIES : Service delivery and medical administration with the division of clinical
Haematology, department of internal medicine: Provide outreach, in-reach and
Support services, rendering community overtime in compulsory. Involvement
in teaching and training of medical students, registrars and subspeciality
fellows. Conduct Research and supervise trainee research projects. Perform
clinical governance and endure compliance with all legal and statutory
requirements with FSDoH, OHSC, HPCSA, CMSA, UFS. Medical
administration: Perform all reasonable duties as directed by the Head of
Department, head clinical unit Internal Medicine (Clinical Haematology), and
Sub-specialist Clinical Haematologist. Conducting clinical audits, mortality and
morbidity. Monitoring and evaluating of relevant clinical effectiveness
indicators.
ENQUIRIES : Prof JLR Malherbe Tel No: (051) 405 2878
POST 17/141 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (ORTHOPEDIC): GRADE 1 – 3 REF NO:
H/M/38/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 – R1 479 723 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 – R1 688 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 884 151 – R2 301 186 per annum
all -inclusive package consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion
that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical Aid (Optional)
Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital, Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Specialist in Orthopedic. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the Health Science
(MBChB). Initial and current registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopedic. Grade 1: No
experience required. Grade 2: A minimum of (5) years relevant experience
after registration with Health Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Orthopedic. Grade 3: A minimum of (10) years relevant
experience after registration with the Health Profession Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopedic. Current annual registration
with HPCSA (2026/2027). Knowledge and Skills: Attributes and Abilities Sound
clinical concept within the specific domain. Ability to work in multidisciplinary
team. Teaching and supervisory skills. Assessment, diagnose and
management of patients within the field of expertise. Good verbal and written
communication skills and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of all Public Service
Legislation, Policies and Procedures. Conflict management skills. Innovation,
drive and stress tolerance. Concern of excellence. ACLS, ATLS, APLS. Medical
expertise, Clinical competence, Medical regulations and research and
Research and analysis. Communication, empathy and compassion, problem-
solving, leadership and teamwork, adaptability and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Patient care and Clinical duties: Management all medical conditions to ensure
that a competent service is provided to all patients. Briefing, informing and
counselling patients and where appropriate relatives regarding prevention,
treatment operative, complications and rehabilitation. Endeavour to becomes
killed in resuscitative measures and intensive care treatment to assure survival
113
of critically ill-patients. Prescribe medications, order and interpret diagnostic
tests, and assist in medical procedures and surgeries. Team leadership:
Supervise junior staff in order to provide adequate medical care and to train
them to be able to do key medical interventions. Documentation: Reduce
medical litigation by exercising good clinical ethos, complete medico-legal
documentation, and maintain adequate medical records. Compliance and
quality: Perform clinical governance and ensure compliance with all legal and
statutory requirements with FSDoH OHSC, HPCSA, CMSA, UFS.
Administrative and operational: Consult patients on an outpatient basis to have
optimal chronic disease management and good long-term follow-up. Render
outreach and support services to other levels of care in our drainage areas
(Free State Province). Candidate will have to perform commuted duties
(Compulsory & non-negotiable) in line with the relevant policy. Perform all
reasonable duties as directed by Head of Department/ Head of Clinical Unit/
Medical Specialist. Conducting clinical audits. Monitoring and evaluating of
relevant clinical effectiveness indicators.
ENQUIRIES : T Tsoho Tel No: (057) 916 8285
POST 17/142 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY) GRADE 1 – 3
REF NO: H/M/39/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 – R1 479 723 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 – R1 688 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 884 151 – R2 301 186 per annum
all -inclusive package consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion
that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical Aid (Optional)
Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital, Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynecology. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the
Health Science (MBChB). Initial and current registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
Obstetrics and Gynecology. Grade 1: No experience required. Grade 2: A
minimum of (5) years relevant experience after registration with Health
Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
Obstetrics and Gynecology. Grade 3: A minimum of (10) years relevant
experience after registration with the Health Profession Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynecology. Current annual
registration with HPCSA (2026/2027). Knowledge and Skills: Attributes and
Abilities Sound clinical concept within the specific domain. Ability to work in
multidisciplinary team. Teaching and supervisory skills. Assessment, diagnose
and management of patients within the field of expertise. Good verbal and
written communication skills and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of all Public
Service Legislation, Policies and Procedures. Conflict management skills.
Innovation, drive and stress tolerance. Concern of excellence. ACLS, ATLS,
APLS. Medical expertise, Clinical competence, Medical regulations and
research and Research and analysis. Communication, empathy and
compassion, problem-solving, leadership and teamwork, adaptability and
attention to detail.
DUTIES : Patient care and Clinical duties: Management all medical conditions to ensure
that a competent service is provided to all patients. Briefing, informing and
counselling patients and where appropriate relatives regarding prevention,
treatment operative, complications and rehabilitation. Endeavour to becomes
killed in resuscitative measures and intensive care treatment to assure survival
of critically ill-patients. Prescribe medications, order and interpret diagnostic
tests, and assist in medical procedures and surgeries. Team leadership:
Supervise junior staff in order to provide adequate medical care and to train
them to be able to do key medical interventions Documentation: Reduce
medical litigation by exercising good clinical ethos, complete medico-legal
documentation, and maintain adequate medical records. Compliance and
quality: Perform clinical governance and ensure compliance with all legal and
statutory requirements with FSDoH OHSC, HPCSA, CMSA, UFS.
Administrative and operational: Consult patients on an outpatient basis to have
optimal chronic disease management and good long-term follow-up. Render
outreach and support services to other levels of care in our drainage areas
(Free State Province). Candidate will have to perform commuted duties
114
(Compulsory & non-negotiable) in line with the relevant policy. Perform all
reasonable duties as directed by Head of Department/ Head of Clinical Unit/
Medical Specialist. Conducting clinical audits. Monitoring and evaluating of
relevant clinical effectiveness indicators.
ENQUIRIES : T Tsoho Tel No: (057) 916 8285
POST 17/143 : MANAGER NURSING: PNA9 REF NO: H/M/41/2026
SALARY : R1 201 302 per annum, all -inclusive package consists of 70% basic salary and
30% flexible portion that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical
Aid (Optional) Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Lejweleputswa District
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/Degree in Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allow registration with the South African Nursing Council) as
a Professional Nurse. Registration with the SANC as a professional nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. (As Assistant
Manager Nursing). Valid driver’s license. Knowledge and Skills: Ability to
function at different levels of care related to the specialty quality for in depth
knowledge and understanding of Health-relation Acts, Regulations, Guidelines
and other related policies such as: Nursing Act, Health Act, Code of Ethics,
Professional Scope of Practice Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act,
Mental Health Act, Patient Rights Charter, Batho-Pele principles, Public
Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Disciplinary Code and Procedure,
Grievance Procedure, etc. Knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service including: Skills Development Act,
Public Development Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act,
Grievance Procedure and Disciplinary.
DUTIES : Provide support to the strategic leadership, coordinate plan and manage the
implementation of the District Health System (DHS). Provide effective
administrative support to the districts. Support the district towards their effort to
meet the ideal clinic status in preparation for the Universal Health Care. Ensure
intersectoral collaboration with relevant stakeholders, through the District
Development Model Forum (DDM). Strengthen Primary Health Care (PHC) re-
engineering and facilitate integration of all the sub-programs within the DHS
budget program. Develop an effective monitoring and evaluation strategy to
improve the program's performance. Ensure effective and efficient use of
resources. Plan and Organize work to achieve objectives that meet service
standards; applying problem solving strategies as a manager in the public
service; Managing own performance and development; Planning services
delivery to meet client expectations and communicating as aa manager in the
public service. Display the capacity in human resource planning and people
management. Develop and monitor the implementation of policies, programs,
regulations, practices, procedures and standards pertaining to nursing care.
Provide guidance and leadership towards the realization of strategic goals and
objectives of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Me. N Gigi Tel No: (057) 351 1026
POST 17/144 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 – 3 REF NO: H/M/40/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 – R1 121 241 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 – R1 297 089 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 – R1 713 534 per annum
all -inclusive package consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion
that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical Aid (Optional)
Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital, Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate, MBCHB or equivalent Degree (independent practice); valid
registration with Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Independent Medical Practitioner. Current registration with HPCSA
(2026/2027). Grade 1: None after registration as a Medical Practitioner with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in respect of South
African qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after registration as
a Medical Practitioner with recognized foreign health professional council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
115
community service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years
after registration as a Medical Practitioner with the Health Professional Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) in respect of South African qualified employees,
Minimum of 6 years relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health professional council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years after
registration as a Medical Practitioner with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) in respect of South African qualified employees.
Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign health professional council in respect of
foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform community
service, as required in South Africa. Knowledge and Skills: Courteous towards
patients; good customer or patient care; time management.
DUTIES : Rendering clinical services and be responsible for service delivery within the
facility. To fulfil the administrative, academic and research requirements in the
hospital. Render outreach and support service to other levels of care. Provide
a holistic patient care, inclusive of preventive measures, treatment and
rehabilitation. Ensuring correct patient management through the
implementation of quality standards, practice and treatment protocols.
Ensuring developments, maintenance and updating of clinical procedures.
Ensuring effective utilization of all resources in the clinical field within the
sphere of functioning. Provide medical services at the department where you
will be allocated. Clinical responsibilities including examine, investigate,
diagnose and oversee the treatment of patients in the relevant department.
Provide guidance, training evaluation and mentorship of junior medical staff.
Participate in community health programs. Assist in the evaluation of existing
standards and effectiveness of health care. Adhere to departmental treatment
guidelines and policy. Deal with emotion, social and physical aspects of
diseases for patients and their relatives.
ENQUIRIES : T Tsoho Tel No: (057) 916 8285
POST 17/145 : MEDICAL OFFICER: INTERNAL MEDICINE (CLINICAL HAEMATOLOGY)
GRADE1-3 REF NO: H/M/37/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 – R1 121 241 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 – R1 297 089 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 – R1 713 534 per annum
all -inclusive package consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion
that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical Aid (Optional)
Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Univeristas Academic Hospital: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB, Full registration with HPCSA as independent practitioner. Relevant
experience: Internship & Community Services. Grade 1: None after registration
as Medical Practitioner with HPCSA respect of South Africa qualified
employees. One year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employee, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Services, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employee. Minimum of 6 years relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees of who it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
Minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employee. Minimum
of 11 years relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees of who it is not required to perform Community Service, as required
in South Africa. Minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employee. Knowledge and skills: Should be well read and have a basic
knowledge of conditions and emergency treatment relevant to the specialty.
Effective clinical decisions, good competent case skills, above average
manipulative skills, should develop into a competent doctor. Values/Attitudes:
Friendly, reassuring and develops good relationship, Good working relationship
with staff, Regular on most occasions, Generally reliable. Education and
116
training: College Part 1, Relevant Diploma, ACLS/APLS/ATLS. Experience in
relevant specialty, Internal Medicine and/or Clinical Haematology and/or
Oncology. Skills: Extremely effective clinical decisions and well-balanced
initiative Excellent case notes that keeps up with daily changes, Outstanding
talent for procedures, Competent and shows outstanding promise.
Values/Attitudes: Warm and sympathetic in speaking to patents, exceptionally
pleasant to all staff and able to gain full cooperation, invariably on time or early
for all duties, very reliable and resourceful in carrying out instructions. Current
annual registration with HPCSA (2026/2027).
DUTIES : Manage all medical conditions to ensure that competent service is provided to
all patients. Supervise junior staff to provide adequate medical care and to train
them to be able to do key medical interventions. Consult patients on an
outpatient basis to have optimal chronic disease management and good long
term follow up. Briefing, informing and counselling patients and where
appropriate relatives regarding prevention, treatment procedures,
complications and rehabilitation. Endeavour to become skilled in resuscitative
measures and intensive care treatment to assure survival of critically ill
patients. Study the relevant field of specialty. Reporting to referring doctors on
their referred patients. Writing and maintenance of relevant clinical notes.
Consulting with senior staff or other relevant specialists if patient care is beyond
personal ability, experience or specialty.
ENQUIRIES : Prof JLR Malherbe Tel No: (051) 405 2878
POST 17/146 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND JOB
EVALUATION REF NO: H/D/12/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, all -inclusive package consists of 75% basic salary and
25% flexible portion that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical
Aid (Optional) Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Corporat Officer, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate, plus Degree in Organisational Development and/or business
administration with an OD focus qualification as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of 5 years of experience in OD environment, of which 3 years should
on ASD level. Certificate in Business Process Mapping, Job Analyst Certificate,
Certificate in Job Evaluation panelist. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge and
Skills: Norms & standards, cost benefit analysis, HR Practices. Compilation of
Job description, relevant legislations & policies, general office administration
practices. Work Study Principles and Techniques, Business Process Re-
engineering, Performance Management. Organisational Design Principles,
PERSAL, policy development, compensate system. management practices,
SOPs and BPMs. Working knowledge of Org- Plus/ Visio, working knowledge
of the JE System. Analytical, management, presentation, computer,
communication, interviewing, report writing, problem solving, project
management, financial management, leadership and conflict management.
DUTIES : Coordinate and monitor the development & maintenance of the organogram/s
in line with the strategic plan/s. Coordinate investigations and develop,
implement, monitor and maintain policies related to job evaluation, efficiency
and productivity. Manage and coordinate/ facilitate business process re-
engineering investigations (Business Process Mapping and Standard
Operating Procedures). Manage the job evaluation processes. Facilitate and
advise on the development of job descriptions within the Department. Manage
resources to ensure that the objectives of the component are achieved.
ENQUIRIES : Mr.DM Nkala Tel No: (051) 408 1000
POST 17/147 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
H/D/13/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, all -inclusive package consists of 75% basic salary and
25% flexible portion that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical
Aid (Optional) Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Corporat Officer, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus B-Degree/ Advanced Diploma in Human Resource
Management or related areas at NQF 7 as recognised by SAQA. PERSAL
certificates. A minimum of 6 years of experience in human resource
administration environment, of which 3 years should be on ASD level. Valid
drivers license. Knowledge and Skills: Extensive knowledge on HR processes
and policies and PERSAL system operations. People management, financial
117
management, problem solving, planning & organizing, time management, team
player, good communication skills. Report writing skills, leadership skills,
change and knowledge management, planning and organization skills. Public
Service Regulation (PSR), Public Service Act (PSA), Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA).
DUTIES : Manage the rendering of effective and efficient selection and recruitment
service. Manage the rendering of effective and efficient human resource
administration services. Facilitate the practical implementation of human
resource management and administration policies and best practices.
Provision and strengthening of governance services. Manage HR Records and
Administration. Supervise resources (human/ assets/finances)
ENQUIRIES : Mr.DM Nkala Tel No: (051) 408 1000
POST 17/148 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: H/D/14/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, all -inclusive package consists of 75% basic salary and
25% flexible portion that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical
Aid (Optional) Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Corporat Officer, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus, Bachelor’s degree/ Advanced Diploma in Financial
Management /Accounting or equivalent qualification at NQF level 7 as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years related experience in management
accounting at supervisory/management level (ASD). Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge of Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Treasury Regulations issued in terms of the PFMA, Free State Provincial
Revenue Act and Performance Management System. Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Policy analysis
and development. People management, financial management, problem
solving, planning and organising and time management. Team player, strategic
planning, good communication, computer literacy, report writing skills.
Facilitation, coordination, leadership, change and knowledge skills.
DUTIES : Monitor the policy and legislative framework to ensure that cognizance is taken
of new developments. Develop and maintain policies and processes. Monitor
cash flow and submit cash flow reports and plans as required. Monitor
compliance with financial prescripts. Provide advice and guidance to role
players on the use of forecasting. Planning – Ensure that information for
planning purposes are collected and analysed properly. Budgeting – Manage,
review, analyse and quality assure the budget preparation process. Reporting
– Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the management accounting
reporting processes. Ensure that information on the requirement for role-over
requests are disseminated to responsibility and program managers. Ensure
that all roll-over requests are considered, proposal developed submitted to the
CFO for consideration. Ensure that the approved roll-overs are incorporated in
the adjustments budgets. Assess the need for additional funds required from
the adjustment estimates process trough monitoring of expenditure trends.
Ensure the assessment of expenditure trends and the development of
proposals on the virement or shifting of funds. Maintenance of discipline.
Management of performance and development. Undertake Human Resource
and other related administrative functions. Establish implement and maintain
efficient and effective communication arrangements. Develop and manage the
operational plan of the sub-directorate and report on progress as required.
Develop implement and maintain processes to ensure proper control of work.
Compile and submit all required administrative reports. Serve on transverse
task teams as required. Procurement and asset management. Planning and
allocate work. Quality control of work delivered by employees. Functional
technical advice and guidance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr.C Elefthriou Tel No: (051) 408 1000
POST 17/149 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: H/D/15/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, all -inclusive package consists of 75% basic salary and
25% flexible portion that be structured in terms of the applicable rules, Medical
Aid (Optional) Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Corporat Officer, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus, Bachelor’s degree/ Advanced Diploma in Financial
Management /Accounting or equivalent qualification at NQF level 7 as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years related experience in management
118
accounting at supervisory/management level (ASD). Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge of Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Treasury Regulations issued in terms of the PFMA, Free State Provincial
Revenue Act and Performance Management System. Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Policy analysis
and development. People management, financial management, problem
solving, planning and organising and time management. Team player, strategic
planning, good communication, computer literacy, report writing skills.
Facilitation, coordination, leadership, change and knowledge skills.
DUTIES : Monitor the policy and legislative framework to ensure that cognizance is taken
of new developments. Develop and maintain policies and processes. Monitor
revenue collected and expenditure incurred and submit reports and plans as
required. Monitor compliance with financial prescripts. Provide advice and
guidance to role players on revenue and expenditure procedures. Revenue
management - Ensure that cashier, banking, debt management, monitoring
and reporting services are rendered. Expenditure management – Ensure that
payment for compensation of employees, goods and services, transfers,
subsidies, and reporting are efficiently and effectively performed. Accounting
– To provide financial administration and accounting services (legers/journals,
accounting, and reporting (interim and annual financial statements).
Maintenance of discipline. Management of performance and development.
Undertake Human Resource and other related administrative functions.
Establish implement and maintain efficient and effective communication
arrangements. Develop and manage the operational plan of the sub-
directorate and report on progress as required. Develop implement and
maintain processes to ensure proper control of work. Compile and submit all
required administrative reports. Serve on transverse task teams as required.
Procurement and asset management for the sub directorate. Planning and
allocate work. Quality control of work delivered by employees. Functional
technical advice and guidance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr.C Elefthriou Tel No: (051) 408 1000
POST 17/150 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH PRACTITIONER
GRADE 1 – 3 REF NO: H/A/15/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R664 410 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional, Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Lejweleputswa District
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate, Bachelor's Degree recognized by SAQA in Environmental
Health and current registration as an Environmental Health Practitioner with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa. Experience- Grade 1: A
minimum of 5 years appropriate experience with the HPCSA in Environmental
Health of which 3 years must be at a Chief Environmental Practitioner.
Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of policy making policy making processes.
Building Safety programs and protocols. Public Services Regulations. Public
Services Act. Batho Pele Principles. Appropriate understanding of
Environmental Health scope of practice and norms and standards. Project and
stakeholder management. Excellent negotiation skills. Facilitation and
communication skills (written and verbal). Good human relations. Ability to
teach and train staff within a team. Basic computer literacy. Ability to work as
part of a multi-disciplinary team at all levels.
DUTIES : Develop, monitor and implement environmental health related policies,
guidelines, plans, norms and standards and procedures. As it relates
Hazardous Substances, Waste management, Pest Control and related
Regulations. Coordinate Hazardous Substances, Waste management and
Pest Control. Collaborate with relevant stakeholders to build capacity of and
support Environmental Health Practitioners in Province and Municipalities.
Ensure effective and efficient resource management. Manage and mitigate
risks related to health care risk waste, hazardous substances and pest control.
Establish, attend and convene provincial forums that seek to further the aims
of waste reduction and green economy in the province. Monitor waste
management, utilize health information technology and other information
systems to enhance service delivery in the province. Analyse, interpret and
generate reports for decision-making.
ENQUIRIES : Me. N Gigi Tel No: (057) 351 1026
119
POST 17/151 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1-2 (PNB1-2) REF NO:
H/C/19/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional, Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Mangaung Metro District
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate, Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification allows
registration with SANC as a Professional. Current registration with South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing
basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with
SANC in case of Government Notice No. R212 in the relevant specialty’s
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in general nurse. Skills and
Knowledge: Planning and organizing, effective communication skills,
coordination skills, collaboration skills, computer literacy skills, time
management skills, problem solving skills, numeracy skills, report writing skills,
facilitation skills. ability to build and work as a team member.
DUTIES : Provision of quality comprehensive community health care. Provision of
administration services. Provision of educational services. Usage of equipment
and machinery. Research responsibility.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. TA Mokoqo, Assistant Director: Admin and Support at 067 422 5555
POST 17/152 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY PNB 1 REF NO: H/P/19/2026 (X6
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional, Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate, plus diploma/ degree in nursing that allows registration with
the SANC. Current registration/APP license with the South African Nursing
Council as Professional Nurse. (2026/2027) A post-basic nursing qualification
with duration of at least one year in one of the following streams (Critical Care
Nursing, Operating Theatre Technique, Oncology Nursing, Advanced
Midwifery & Neonatology Nursing Science). Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years’
appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognizable experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience after
obtaining the 1 year post basic qualification as mentioned above. Skills and
Knowledge: Excellent current clinical competencies and skills in the applicable
area of specialty. Good organizational, collaborative and interpersonal skills.
Computer literacy (Word & Excel) Honesty, integrity, and high work ethics.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with adherence to the set
norms, standards and applicable professional/ legal framework. Effective
utilization of all resources within own sphere of influence to maintain costs
within the allocated budget. (Human, consumables, assets) in accordance with
the Supply Chain Management prescripts. Effective implementation of risk
management strategy of the FSDoH to increase efficiency, reduce service
delivery-related complaints and potential for litigation. Use relevant electronic
data systems including manual source documents to record, capture, reconcile
data and or manage the flow of information and communication within the area
of specialty. Maintain professional growth/ ethical standards and self-
development in line with the Nursing Education Framework.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J.M. Radebe Tel No: (051) 405 3415
POST 17/153 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY (PNB1-2) REF NO: H/P/20/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional, Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Fezile Dabi District
120
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse. A post basic
nursing qualification in Primary Health Care with a duration of at least 1 year,
accredited with SANC. Current registration with SANC (2026/2027). Grade 1:
A minimum of 4 years appropriate recognizable experience in Nursing after
registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate recognizable experience in nursing after registration with
SANC as a professional Nurse. At least 10 years of the period referred to above
must be appropriate recognizable experience in the specific specialty after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification of the period referred to above.
Valid driver’s license. Knowledge and Skills: Nursing care standards,
processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant legal
frameworks such as: Nursing Act, Health Act. Occupational Health and Safety
Act. Patient Rights Charter. Batho Pele Principles, Nursing Strategy, Public
Services Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Disciplinary Code and Procedure,
Grievance Procedure, etc. Planning and Organizing skills, Effective
Communication Skills, Co-ordination skills, Collaboration Skills, Computer
Skills, Time Management Skills, Problem Solving Skills, Numeracy, Report
writing Skills and Facilitation Skills.
DUTIES : Provision of quality comprehensive community health care: provide Primary
Health Care: Provide curative health care services. Referral to health support
services. (Rehabilitation, oral health, etc, Doctors, etc, specialist). Evaluate and
follow-up patients during clinic visits. Initiate treatment, implementation of
programmes and evaluations of patient’s clinical conditions. Promoting
scientific quality nursing care. Individual consultation sessions. Identify
community needs. Initiate minor ailments treatment. Initiate community
participation. Coordinate between hospital and community. Maintaining
professional secrecy and preventing medico-legal risks. Attend and participate
in doctors visit. Arrange admission and outpatient appointments. Function as a
member of the therapeutic team. Continuous evaluation of nursing care and
nursing services. Assessments of personal services delivery towards patients.
Provision of Administration Services: plan and organize daily tasks in clinics
co-operation with Clinical Manager. Complete and control Health Information
data of all patients and activities as per policy. Ordering and control of
stationary, medical stock, consumables as per delegation in absence of
personal responsible for different services. Ensure safekeeping of stock and
assets. Ordering and control of medication as necessary as per delegations in
absence of pharmacist Assistant. Control of medication prescribed to patients
as per EDI. Up to date knowledge of appropriate legislation. Regulations and
departmental policies. Involvement with community meetings and committees
in co-operations with Operational Manager. Identify needs for financial
planning and indirect control of expenditure. Provision of educational services:
clinical teaching, training and continuous evaluation of sub-category nursing
personnel and support services in the Manager. Teaching patients on a one-to
one basis. Personnel development, ie. Assessing in-service training needs,
planning and implementing of training programme in co-operation with Clinical
Manager. Usage of equipment and Machinery: Usage of basic medical
equipment. Cleaning, control and safekeeping of equipment. Research
Responsibility: To assist in the regional and departmental projects. Direct and
indirect involvement with medical research. Involvement with matching
research to the needs of the community.
ENQUIRIES : Me. MN Daniels-Moeketsi at 083 369 0133/ Tel No: (016) 973 2402
POST 17/154 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:H/A/17/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance,
Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in
Logistics / Supply Chain Management / Commercial / Economic / Financial
services with 5-7 years of relevant experience in the Supply Chain
Management field. 3 years’ experience in a supervisory or managerial role. A
valid driver’s license (excluding persons with disabilities). Knowledge of LOGIS
systems. Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Knowledge and
Skills: Extensive knowledge of Supply Chain Management in the Public Sector.
Knowledge of: Public Finance Management Act, 1999, Treasury Regulations,
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Public Services Act,
121
Batho Pele Principles, Good written and communication skills, and Good
managerial skills.
DUTIES : Monitor and review the capturing of all physical (movable and immoveable)
assets in the physical asset management registers. Monitor and review the
allocation of assets to asset holders. Oversee and review the monitoring of
assets in accordance with the relevant policy and procedures. Promote correct
implementation of sound asset management. Supervise employees to ensure
sound physical asset management. Establish and maintain proper control
systems for departmental assets and mechanisms aimed at eliminating theft
and losses, wastage and misuse of assets. Manage and direct the provision
of contract management services. Manage Service Level. Agreements (SLA’s)
with suppliers and service providers. Effective and efficient inventory
management.
ENQUIRIES : Me. MJ Tsoeu Tel No: (051) 405 3911
POST 17/155 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
H/A/18/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance,
Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in
Logistics / Supply Chain Management / Commercial / Economic / Financial
services with 5-7 years of relevant experience in the Supply Chain
Management field. 3 years’ experience in a supervisory or managerial role. A
valid driver’s license (excluding persons with disabilities). Knowledge of LOGIS
systems. Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Knowledge and
Skills: Extensive knowledge of Supply Chain Management in the Public Sector.
Knowledge of: Public Finance Management Act, 1999, Treasury Regulations,
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Public Services Act,
Batho Pele Principles, Good written and communication skills, and Good
managerial skills.
DUTIES : Monitor and review the capturing of all procurement transactions. Monitor and
review the allocation of goods received. Oversee and review the monitoring of
goods and services in accordance with the relevant policy and procedures.
Supervise employees to ensure sound Supply Chain management. Manage
and direct the provision of demand and acquisition management services.
Develop efficient and cost-effective supply chain strategies. Manage the
institutional quotation process i.e. specification, evaluation, and adjudication
processes in line with relevant policies and standard operating procedures.
Establish and maintain proper control systems for departmental assets and
mechanisms aimed at eliminating theft and losses, wastage, and misuse of
assets. Manage and direct the provision of contract management services.
Manage Service Level Agreements (SLA’s) with suppliers and service
providers. Effective and efficient inventory management. Effective and efficient
fleet management.
ENQUIRIES : Me. MJ Tsoeu Tel No: (051) 405 3911
POST 17/156 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: H/A/19/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance,
Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus a relevant tertiary qualification in Supply Chain
Management/ Public Management or equivalent at NQF level 7 as recognized
by SAQA. A minimum of 3-year related asset management supervisory
experience. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Service Regulations.
Public Services Act. PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of LOGIS
system and Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA).
Computer literacy, basic numeracy, excellent communication (verbal and
written) and report writing.
DUTIES : Monitor and review the capturing of all physical (moveable and immoveable)
assets in the physical asset management registers. Monitor and review the
allocation of assets to asset holders. Oversee and review the monitoring of
assets in accordance with the relevant policy and procedures. Promote correct
implementation of sound asset management practices. Supervise employees
to ensure sound physical asset management.
122
ENQUIRIES : Me. MJ Tsoeu Tel No: (051) 405 3911
POST 17/157 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
H/A/20/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance,
Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus a relevant tertiary qualification in Supply Chain
Management/ Public Management / Logistics or equivalent at NQF level 7 as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years of related SCM supervisory
experience. LOGIS Certificates. Knowledge and Skills: Extensive knowledge
of SCM in the Public Sector, PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Public Service Act and Batho
Pele Principles. Knowledge of LOGIS system. Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint). Good communication (verbal and written) and good
managerial skills.
DUTIES : Receipt of all goods and services. Perform quantity and quality control.
Allocation and management of warehouse items. Capturing of all received
goods and services. Issuing of goods and services in line with departmental
policies. The delivery of goods and services to the relevant stakeholders.
Manage the allocated resources in line with legislative and departmental policy,
directives, and comply with corporate governance and planning imperatives.
Monitoring goods and services in line with SCM prescripts and according to the
consumption rate. Compile reports and monitor usage. Monitor goods and
services utilization functionality and financial performance. Maintain and
improve the institutional supply chain management system in line with
legislative requirements and the National Treasury's norms and standards.
Supervise employees to ensure sound SCM. Manage and direct the provision
of demand and acquisition management services. Develop efficient and cost-
effective supply chain strategies. Manage the institutional quotation process
(specification, evaluation, and adjudication) processes in line with relevant
policies and standard operating procedures. Establish and maintain proper
control systems for departmental assets and mechanisms aimed at eliminating
theft and losses, wastage, and misuse of assets. Manage and direct the
provision of contract management services. Manage Service Level
Agreements (SLA's) with suppliers and service providers. Provide effective and
efficient inventory management. Provide effective and efficient fleet
management.
ENQUIRIES : Me. MJ Tsoeu Tel No: (051) 405 3911
POST 17/158 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
H/A/21/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance,
Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus tertiary qualification in Human Resource Management or related
areas at NQF 6. 3 years of relevant experience at a supervisory level. Relevant
PERSAL certificates. Knowledge and Skills: Ability to communicate issues in a
tactful manner, Problem-solving skills. Computer skills. Numeracy skills.
Literacy skills. Knowledge of the PERSAL System. Knowledge of policies/
implementation strategies. Knowledge of Human Resource Management
Legislation/ Directives. Knowledge and understanding of the Human Resource
Management environment.
DUTIES : Rendering a professional human resource management service on: Conditions
of Service and service benefits (Leave, Housing, Medical, Injury on Duty,
Terminations, Long Service Recognition, overtime, re-allocation, Pension,
Allowances, etc.). HR Provisioning (Recruitment and Selection, Appointments,
Transfer, temporary employment, verification of qualifications, secretariat
functions at interviews, probationary periods, etc.). Address human resource
management enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human
resource management administration. Prepare and consolidate reports on
personnel administration issues. Provide inputs on the
development/amendments of Human Resource Management Policies. Inform,
guide, and advise the Department/ personnel on human resource
administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of personnel
123
administration policies. Conduct HR Audits. Coordinate submission of
information for audit queries. Monitor implementation of the Audit action plan.
Attend to queries/ complaints pertaining to Human Resource Practices. Report
on activities of the Sub-Directorate. Management of staff within the component.
The development and updating of Job Descriptions for reporting staff. The
performance management of staff within the component. Facilitation of training
interventions. Give direction, guidance, and advice to staff within the
component.
ENQUIRIES : Me. S Mpanza Tel No: (051) 405 3099
POST 17/159 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: H/A/22/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance,
Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 in Labour Relations or relevant qualifications as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in Labour Relations or relevant field.
Computer literacy. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of disciplinary code and
procedures, grievance procedures, mediation and arbitration, public service
legislation and resolutions and Labour Relations Act. Understanding of
application of legislation, policies and resolutions, project management.
Conflict resolution skills. Sound organizing and planning skills. Coordination
skills. report writing skills. Ability to work under pressure and adhere to strict
deadlines.
DUTIES : Provide support, advice and facilitate the implementation of labour relations
framework in the Department through the following key performance areas:
Ensure misconducts and dispute cases are handled promptly and effectively.
Investigate cases and compile investigation reports. Draft sound charges of
misconduct. Prepare witnesses for disciplinary hearing. Represent the
department in disciplinary hearings. Represent the department in arbitrations.
Ensure the facilitation of grievance resolution. Provide advice and development
on labour relations matters. Prepare reports. Management of financial and
human resources.
ENQUIRIES : Me. S Mpanza Tel No: (051) 405 3099
POST 17/160 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
H/A/16/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance,
Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Corporat Officer, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate, plus Degree (NQF 7) in Human Resource Management/
Public Administration qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3
years’ experience in PMDS environment, of which 2 years should be on
supervisory level. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge and Skills: Policy analysis
and development, Co-ordinating, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms,
systems and processes, Labour Relations, Transformation, PMDS, All
applicable legislations.
DUTIES : Facilitate the effective implementation of Performance Management and
Development System in the department. Provide support and advice on
moderation processes. Provide Training and development of employees on
PMDS. Coordinate implementation of performance rewards. Manage
resources to ensure that the objectives of the component are achieved.
ENQUIRIES : Mr.DM Nkala Tel No: (051) 408 1000
POST 17/161 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND JOB
EVALUATION REF NO: H/A/17/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance,
Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Corporat Officer, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus Degree (NQF 7) in Organisational Development and/or
business administration with an OD focus qualification. A minimum of 3 years’
experience in Organisational Development environment, of which 2 years
should be on supervisory level. Certificate in Business Process Mapping, JE
initial and follow-up training Certificates and JE Panel Certificate. A valid driver
license. Knowledge and Skills: Setting of norms & standards, knowledge cost
124
benefit analysis, HR Practices. Compilation of Job description, relevant
legislations & policies, general office administration practices and PERSAL,
Job Evaluation processes, compensate system, working knowledge of Org-
Plus/ Visio, structure costing models, BPM & SOP techniques. Analytical,
organising, presentation, computer, communication, interview, planning,
supervising, problem solving, project management and conflict resolution.
DUTIES : Develop & maintain the organogram/s. Develop, review and analyse norms
and standards. Conduct job evaluation on identified/prioritized jobs and advice
on the application thereof. Provide advice on the development of job
descriptions. Manage resources to ensure that the objectives of the component
are achieved.
ENQUIRIES : Mr.DM Nkala Tel No: (051) 408 1000
POST 17/162 : ASSISTANT MANAGER: NURSING: PNA7 REF NO: H/A/14/2026 (X1
POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 – R472 359 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 – R550 389 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 – R683 808 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional, Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Nketoana District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Matric, basic qualification accreditation with the SANC in terms of Government
Notice 425 (i.e. Diploma/Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with South African Nursing Council. Current registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) Professional Nursing. A minimum of
8 years appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognizable experience at
Management Level. Knowledge and Skills: Ability to work under pressure.
Good communication skills. Computer Literacy. Knowledge of nursing care
processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant frameworks.
DUTIES : Delegate, supervise and co-ordinate the provision of effective and efficient
patient care through adequate nursing care. Initiate and participate in health
promotion to ensure consistent communication of relevant, accurate and
comprehensive information on health care. Develop/establish and maintain
constructive working relationships with nursing and other stakeholders (i.e.
inter-professional, inter-sectoral and multi-disciplinary teamwork). Participate
in the analysis, formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines,
practices, standards and procedures. Manage Human Resources. Monitor and
ensure proper utilization of financial and physical resources
ENQUIRIES : Mr SR Sithole Tel No: (058) 303 5123
POST 17/163 : NUTRITIONIST REF NO: H/N/1/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 - R472 359 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 - R550 389 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional), Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements
CENTRE : Fezile Dabi District
REQUIREMENTS : Dietetics Degree/Minimum educational qualification: appropriate qualification
that allows registration with the Health Professions Council of South African
(HPCSA) as a Nutritionist, plus current HPCSA registration for 2026/2027.
Registration with the HPCSA as Nutritionist. Grade 1: None after registration
with HPCSA in respect of RSA – qualified employees. 1- year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Nutritionist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Nutritionist in respect of RSA
-qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Nutritionist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Nutritionist in respect of RSA – qualified
employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as a Nutritionist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform community services as required in South Africa.
125
Inherent requirements of the job: willingness to work as a Nutritionist within the
multidisciplinary team. Knowledge and Skills: Effective interpersonal skills,
planning and organizational skill and leadership qualities. Computer Literacy
and Driver’s License. Knowledge of current health and public legislation,
regulations and policies. Knowledge in the application of Clinical Nutritionist,
theory, practices and ethics. Applying of dietary principles as part of the
treatment of an individual, relative to a specific disease and following
prescription by a medical doctor. Establish and applying guidelines for
maintenance of healthy nutritional practices for individuals. The establishing
and applying of guidelines for adequate food and nutrition in institutions for
healthy and or ill persons.
DUTIES : Supporting Primary Health Care facilities/ Clinics and rotate to clinics for
therapeutic Nutrition, coordination, implementation, monitoring and Evaluation
of policies and strategies on INP focus area and its activities namely disease
specific, nutrition support on all INP programs, namely disease specific.
Nutrition support, treatment and counselling, micro-nutrient and malnutrition
Control, youth and Adolescent Food Service management, supplementary
feed scheme. Growth monitoring and promotion, mother baby friendly initiative.
Community based nutrition initiative, maternal nutrition. Nutrition education,
promotion and advocacy. Working with the team responsible for data
verification at clinic level. Control stock Equipment and materials, ensure
accurate record keeping and reporting. Provide therapeutic counselling to
patients. Strict Adherence to HPCSA and departmental policies. Carry out
Duties as delegated to promote service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Me. C De Vries at (083) 262 2163, Tel No: (016) 973 2402
POST 17/164 : ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH PRACTITIONER: GRADE 1 – 3 REF NO:
H/E/4/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 – R472 359 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 – R550 389 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 – R683 808 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid (Optional, Employee must
meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Bongani Regional Hospital, Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate or equivalent qualification plus Diploma / Degree in
Environmental Health and or an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in the
relevant profession. Currently registered as an Independent Environmental
Health Practitioner for 2026/2027. Grade 1; South African qualified employees:
None after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where
applicable) in of respect of employees who performed Community Service as
required in SA. Foreign qualified employees: One 1-year relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable)
in respect of employees of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in SA. Hospital experience and extension knowledge in
Occupational Health and Safety will be an added advantage. Good
interpersonal Skills, written, Verbal and presentation Skills. Accuracy and
attention to detail. Ability to work under pressure. Ability and willingness to
travel. Good interpersonal relationship, Leadership skill. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Waste management (ensure proper handling and monitor of general waste and
health care risk waste) Safety Health Environment Risk and Quality (SHERQ)
management. Waste quality monitoring (collection of water samples and
analyzing results). Food control (collection of food samples, inspection of food
premises and training of staff). Vector control within the facility (organize pest
control programme). Disease surveillance (from part of the outbreak response
team, investigate outbreaks and liaise with relevant stakeholders). Monitor
environmental health indicators and provide reports to management. Pollution
control. Environmental health hygiene. Occupational hygiene surveillance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Tsoho Tel No: (057) 916 8285
POST 17/165 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A: FITTER & PLUMBER REF NO:
H/A/23/2026 (X2 POSTS) (X1 FITTER & X1 PLUMBER)
SALARY : R397 329 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Homeowner Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
126
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus appropriate trade test certificate as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of 5 years of experience as an Artisan. A completed
apprenticeship and proof of passing a trades test in terms of the provisions of
section 13(2)(h) of the Manpower Training Act,1981, as amended, or a
certificate issued under the provisions of the repealed section 27 of the Act
referred. knowledge and skills: Knowledge of Public Service legislation,
policies, and procedures. Excellent time management. Written and verbal
communication skills and report. Good interpersonal skills with colleagues and
other departments. Honesty, integrity, and high work ethics. Computer literacy.
Ability to read floor plans and schematic drawings. Steam reticulation
maintenance. Steam boilers. Autoclave repair and maintenance. Fault-finding
in general. Inspection of equipment according to set standards. Keep and
maintain job cards and other registers. Maintain agreement with the
development plan. Conversant with the OHS Act and regulations. Knowledge
of generators and pumps. Welding. Application knowledge of generators,
medium voltage substations & switch gears, ISOLOCS, PLC. Single-phase
Wireman’s license. Installation electrician.
DUTIES : Supervision and monitoring of completion of job requests (H24). Attend to job
requests in respect of physical repair and maintenance, including preventative
maintenance of medical and operational equipment. Perform administrative
functions. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. A. MPhale Tel No: (051) 405 3186
POST 17/166 : LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital Ref No: H/L/1/2026
Corporate Office: Bloemfontein Ref No: H/L/2/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized three-year degree/ diploma in Labour Law/ Labour Relations or
equivalent qualification. Computer literacy. Knowledge and Skills: Labour
Relations Legislation. Processes of labour relation matters. Good
communication skills. Facilitation skills. Conflict resolution skills. Analytical
skills. Presentation skills. Negotiation skills. Organising skills. Interpersonal
relationship skills.
DUTIES : Handle misconduct cases, grievances and disputes in line with relevant
legislation/ resolutions to ensure proper resolution thereof. Advice
management on all labour relations matters in order to minimise unfair labour
practices. Capture information of misconduct cases, grievances and disputes
on employee relations management information system for record keeping
purposes. Provide a secretariat service to the institutions consultative
committee.
ENQUIRIES : Me. S Mpanza Tel No: (051) 405 3099
Mr. RS Khoali Tel No: (051) 408 1000
POST 17/167 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER REF NO: H/S/1/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital (UAH). Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus a Diploma in Human Resource Management or related
areas qualification at NQF 6 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’
experience in an HR environment. Relevant PERSAL Certificates. Knowledge
and Skills: Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Public Service Regulation 2016, as amended,
and the Public Finance Management Act. Computer literacy, planning, and
organization. Good communication (verbal and written). Teamwork, flexibility,
and responsibility.
DUTIES : Supervise and undertake the more complex implementation and maintenance
of human resource administration practices: HR Provisioning (Recruitment and
Selection, appointments, transfer, verification of qualifications, secretariat
functions at interviews, absorptions, probationary periods etc.) Implement
conditions of service and service benefits (Leave, Housing, Medical, Injury on
Duty, Long Service Recognition, overtime, relocation, Pension, allowances
etc.) Termination of service. Recommend (approve) transactions on PERSAL
according to delegations. Performance Management. Prepare reports on
human resource administration issues and statistics. Handle human resource
127
administration enquiries. Allocate and ensure quality of work. Personnel
development.
ENQUIRIES : Me. S Mpanza Tel No: (051) 405 3099
POST 17/168 : ADMIN OFFICER REF NO: H/A/24/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma in Office Administration. Grade 12 / National Senior Certificate.
Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook). Senior Certificate, plus Diploma
(NQF 6) in Public Administration /Financial Management/ Accounting or related
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years in PERSAL
administration or finance environment. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
the PERSAL system, knowledge of HR and financial systems. Understanding
of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations.
Strong analytical and numerical skills. Good communication, report writing and
problem-solving skills. Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Administer and analyze expenditure by monitoring personnel-related
expenditure, identifying variances, and providing accurate financial reports to
support budgeting and decision-making processes. Manage and correct
personnel linkages on the PERSAL system by ensuring that all employees are
correctly linked to appropriate cost centres, departments, and funding sources,
and by resolving any discrepancies timeously. Compile, verify, and analyze
data from the PERSAL system to ensure accuracy, completeness, and
alignment with reporting requirements. Ensure data integrity on the PERSAL
system by regularly reviewing and updating employee information, detecting
errors and implementing corrective measures to maintain reliable records.
Provide administration support in financial and HR reporting by preparing
reports, maintaining records, and assisting management with information
required for audits and compliance purposes. Ensure compliance with relevant
legislation, policies, and procedures, including the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, and departmental prescripts.
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders, including HR, Finance, and other
departments, to resolve PERSAL and expenditure-related queries and ensure
efficient service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. K. Kwakwa Tel No: (051) 405 3287
POST 17/169 : ADMIN OFFICER REF NO: H/A/25/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a Diploma in Public Administration or a related
qualification recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in support
services, facilities management, or a related administrative environment.
Knowledge and Skills: Understanding of administrative systems within a Public
Service environment. Ability to read, interpret, and write reports and
correspondence. Excellent communication (verbal and written). Strong
organisational and coordination skills. Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word,
Outlook). Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, as amended.
DUTIES : Provide administrative coordination and management. Supervise the
implementation of porter, housekeeping, cleaning, and laundry services.
Provide financial administration support services in the component. Ensure full
compliance with Occupational Health and Safety legislation and policies.
Develop and implement systems for the control and distribution of PPE and
cleaning materials. Supervise human resources/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Me. S Mpanza Tel No: (051) 405 3099
POST 17/170 : ADMIN OFFICER REF NO: H/A/26/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus Diploma in Public Administration or related qualification
as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years of experience in an office
administration environment. Knowledge and Skills: Understanding of
128
administrative systems within a public service environment. Excellent
communication (verbal and written). Strong organizational and coordination,
planning, and prioritization. Ability to read, interpret, and write reports and
correspondence. Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook)
DUTIES : Coordinate and monitor HR-related quality assurance and risk management
processes within the institution. Compile and maintain reports on compliance
with HR policies, audit findings, and risk registers. Assist in the implementation
of audit action plans and monitor progress. Maintain and update the approved
staff establishment in line with organizational structures. Compare approved
posts with filled posts and identify any differences. Assist in monitoring funded
and unfunded posts and providing reports. Support organizational structure
alignment and post-provisioning processes. Coordinate and compile PMDS
spreadsheets and reports for the institution. Monitor submission of
performance agreements, reviews, and assessments. Ensure compliance with
PMDS policies and timeframes. Provide administrative support during PMDS
cycles and audits. Collect, verify, and analyze HR data for reporting purposes.
Compile monthly, quarterly, and annual HR reports. Ensure accuracy and
integrity of data on systems such as PERSAL. Maintain proper record-keeping
and filing systems (manual and electronic). Provide administrative support to
HR projects and operational activities. Prepare submissions and reports for
management. Coordinate meetings, take minutes, and follow up on action
items.
ENQUIRIES : Me. S Mpanza Tel No: (051) 405 3099
POST 17/171 : STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: H/S/2/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate, plus Diploma in Financial Management at NQF 6 or
equivalent as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
finance environment. LOGIS/BAS Certificates. Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge of LOGIS/BAS and PERSAL. Knowledge of related policies,
directives and legislation. Ability to communicate issues in a tactful manner.
Problem solving skills, computer skills, numeracy skills, literacy skills,
supervisory skills and analytical skills.
DUTIES : Supervise the implementation and maintenance of Financial Management
practices concerning Financial Administration processes: Salaries (Payments,
Deductions etc.)Tax (payment to SARS, calculation of Tax payable etc.),Debt,
Bookkeeping (Clear Ledger accounts, Capture BAS Payments, Journals and
Reports).Banking, Revenue (Cashier) and Budget (Capture Budget, Virement,
Adjustment Budget on BAS etc.). Maintain an effective and efficient claims
recoverable and payable account for Provincial/ National Departments and
outside institutions. Check and verify claims issued. Verify the clearing of all
related ledger accounts through the compiling and processing of journals on
the BAS. Verify all Sundry payments regarding claims payable. Monitor and
verify all cheque payments. Compile weekly reminder letters for all outstanding
claims older than 30 days. Compile monthly status and Key Control Matrix
Report (KCM) on all outstanding interdepartmental claims. Forward monthly
confirmation letters regarding outstanding balances. Provide first line support
to the users of BAS. Assist with the management of new releases of BAS to
officials in the department. Provide support on the following functional areas:
Allocations, Bank service interface, Budgets, Debts, Disbursements, Entities,
Interfaces for PERSAL, Bank, LOGIS and other systems Journals, Period
opening and closing, Receipts, Reporting, Printing of payment stubs, Third
party transport. Assist users with password resets and training nominations.
Compile quarterly BAS user profile verification reports for BAS security
management (User profiles and printers). Allocate and ensure quality of work.
Personnel development. Assess staff performance. Apply discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. K. Kwakwa Tel No: (051) 405 3287
POST 17/172 : SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER REF NO: H/S/3/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
129
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus, Diploma in Supply Chain Management/ Public
Management/ Financial Management or equivalent qualification at NQF 6.
LOGIS / BAS certificates. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of LOGIS System.
Knowledge of the relevant Supply Chain Management Legislation/ Directives,
LOGIS /BAS system, PFMA and SCM delegations. Communication,
interpersonal skills, problem solving skills, computer skills, numeracy skills,
literacy skills, supervisory skills, analytical skills and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation and maintenance of Supply Chain
Management practices: Logistics (Ordering, Payments, Transit IN, Transit
OUT, Warehouse, Quotations, e.g.), assets (Disposals), loss Control,
demands, acquisitions and approve transactions on LOGIS / BAS according to
delegations. Inform other stakeholders about the changes made in the logistics
management. Ensure that order register is used, updated and kept safe.
Transactions are processed with the correct delegations (Financial, SCM and
LOGIS). Follow up with Supplier in terms delivery on frequent basis. To follow
up on unauthorized orders on weekly basis. Verify bank details before order
authorized. Prepare and place orders at suppliers. Ensure all required or
necessary documents are attached certified. Perform administrative related
functions. Allocate and ensure quality of work. Personnel development. Assess
staff performance. Ensure discipline of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Me. MJ Tsoeu Tel No: (051) 405 3911
POST 17/173 : TRANSPORT OFFICER REF NO: H/T/1/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior/ Grade 12 certificate. A three-year recognized qualification in Public
Administration / Fleet Management couple with 2 years’ experience in the
transport environment. Valid driver's license. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge
of relevant transport policies and prescripts. analytical, good financial
Management, computer literacy, communication (written and verbal), good
interpersonal, Planning and organizing skills. Ability to work long hours
independently. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Checking of the vehicle after each trip. Issuing of trip authorities. Completion
of trip authorities. Ensure trips are authorised. Issuing of cars. Coordination of
trips to ensure cost effectiveness. Overseeing of drivers. Safe keeping of car
keys and petrol cards. Filling of petrol slips and invoices. Renewal of petrol
cards. Checking license disc for expiring date. Check PDP of drivers for
expiring date. Report lost petrol cards. Checking of log sheet on arrival · Do
report of fleet on month end. Attend management meetings. Ensure cars are
kept clean at all time Plan maintenance of cars. Ask for quotations for repairs.
Do inspections on cars. Ensure that vehicles are serviced according to the
travelled kilos. Check life span of vehicles. Report any accident Ensure training
and development (in-service training of service). Conduct performance
evaluation. Plan and manage leave and staff attendance. Mentoring. Inputs
into planning of continuous development programmes. Do overtime of drivers.
ENQUIRIES : Me. MJ Tsoeu Tel No: (051) 405 3911
POST 17/174 : FOOD SERVICE MANAGER REF NO: H/F/1/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Home Owner Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Food Service Management/Food and Beverage
Management (3 years HET level) or BTech in food Service Management/Food
and Beverage Management (4 years HET level) or relevant qualification.
Minimum of three (3) years’ supervisory experience in a hospital environment.
Valid driver’s license. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of National and
Provincial policies, procedures, Acts and protocols related to quality
assurance, infection control, hygiene and food safety within a healthcare
setting. Sound knowledge of menu planning, standardized recipes and stock
control processes. Computer literacy with proficiency in standard office
applications. Ability to under pressure and manage multiple tasks effectively.
Good report writing skills and the ability to compile accurate and concise
reports. Ability to effectively manage teams and operations.
130
DUTIES : Ensure quality food provisioning for both normal and therapeutic diets (Menu
planning and food preparation). Collaborating with registered dietitians to
create patient menus, considering dietary restrictions, preferences, and special
needs. Collaborating with medical staff to provide individualized patient
nutrition care and plan modified diets. Ensuring patients are satisfied with their
meals and addressing any complaints or concerns. Compiling of a demand
plan for the food service unit). Procurement of food items using the correct
supply chain procedures. Managing food inventory, ordering supplies, and
controlling costs. Assist with good practices in health and safety measures.
Implementing and maintaining food safety and sanitation procedures, ensuring
compliance with health and safety regulations. Assist with good practices in
hygiene. Overseeing food preparation, ensuring adherence to standardized
recipes, portion control, and quality standards. Staying up-to-date on
regulations and accreditation standards related to food service operations.
Addressing challenges that arise in the food service department and
implementing effective solutions. Evaluate and monitor performance of
employees to ensure achievement of goals and objectives. Monitor the
development of sub-ordinates. Develop and maintain employee motivation.
Manage leave of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.R Tongwane, Food service manager Tel No: (051) 405 3911
POST 17/175 : SECURITY MANAGER REF NO: H/S/4/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Homeowner Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional), Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Universitas Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. National Diploma NQF Level 6 in
Security Management/ Security Risk Management or equivalent. 3 years’
experience in a security management environment as a Security Officer
Supervisor. Registration with PSIRA. A valid driver's license. Knowledge and
Skills: Knowledge of the relevant Public Service Regulation, access control,
security regulations, and procedures. Able to write, read and communicate at
least two of the official languages applicable in the Free State. Knowledge of
CCTV surveillance and control room practice. Physically fit. Willingness to work
long hours and available 24 hours. Ability to write reports. Computer skills.
Communication skills.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor access control to the buildings: Define services that the
visitors require and ensure that visitors are referred to the relevant service
delivery point. Check the completeness of admission control registers. Provide
admission control documents/cards as required. Ensure that visitors are
escorted to relevant employees/venues. Ensure that unauthorized people and
dangerous objects do not enter the building/ premises. Report breaches and
follow up on incidents. Manage the undertaking of building/premises patrols.
Ensure that all entrances are locked and unlocked, check water leaks and that
taps are closed, identify and check fire hazards, exposed electricity contacts,
and other fire hazards. Check that lights are switched on and off as required.
Check and report suspicious objects and packages. Monitor application of
emergency procedures. Ensure maintenance and safekeeping of equipment,
documents, and stores of the Department. Check the completeness of
registers to control the movement of equipment, stores, and documents that
leave the building/ premises unauthorized. Analyse gathered information or
reports on missing and stolen equipment and stores. Manage handling of
documents as points of entry according to classification and the applicable
prescripts. Ensure maintenance and safe record-keeping of registers. Check
and verify all recorded incidents in the occurrence book/register. Check and
verify all submitted weekly and monthly registers. Facilitation of procurement
for security services. Check verity accuracy of work orders, time sheets, and
invoices. Manage personnel, i.e., leave overtime, etc., maintain discipline, and
ensure that Security Officers wear uniform at all times.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Mpanza, Deputy Director: HR and Admin Tel No: (051) 405 3099
POST 17/176 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional, Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Corporat Officer: Chief Financial Officer Ref No: H/P/20/2026
Corporat Officer: Chief Director: Financial Management Ref No: H/P/21/2026
131
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus, Secretarial Diploma/Office Management qualification at
NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
rendering a secretarial support service to senior management. Knowledge and
Skills: Good telephone etiquette. Computer literacy. Sound organisational
skills. Good people management and interpersonal skills. High level of
reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good grooming and
presentation. Self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Receives telephone calls in an environment where, in addition to the calls for
the Executive Manager, discretion is required to decide to whom the call should
be forwarded. In the process the job incumbent should finalise some enquiries.
Performs advanced typing work. Operates and ensures that office equipment,
e.g.: fax machines and photocopiers are in good working order. Records the
engagements of the Manager. Utilises discretion to decide whether to
accept/decline or refer to other employees’ requests for meetings, based on
the assessed importance and urgency of the matter. Coordinates with and
sensitizes/advices the manager regarding engagements. Compiles realistic
schedules of appointments. Ensures the effective flow of information and
documents to and from the office of the Manager. Ensures the safekeeping of
all documentation in the office of the Manager in line with relevant legislation
and policies. Obtains inputs, collates and compiles reports. Progress, Monthly
and Management reports Scrutinizes routine submissions/reports and make
notes and/or recommendations for the Manager. Responds to enquiries
received from internal and external stakeholders. Draft documents as required.
Does filling of documents for the manager and the section where required.
Ensures that travel arrangements are well coordinated. Scrutinizes documents
to determine actions/information/other documents required for meetings.
Collects and compiles all necessary documents for the Manager to inform
him/her on the contents. Records minutes/decisions and communicates to
relevant role-players, follow-up on progress made. Prepares briefing notes for
the Manager as required. Coordinates logistical arrangements for meetings
when required. Collects and coordinates all the documents that relate to the
manager’s budget. Checks and correlates BAS reports to ensure that
expenditure is allocate correctly. Compares the MTEF allocation with the
requested budget and informs the Manager of changes. Remains up to date
with regard to the prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to his/her
work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the Manager. Remains
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. TM Moremi Tel No: (051) 408 1000
Mr.C Eleftheriou Tel No: (051) 408 1000
POST 17/177 : INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: H/I/1/2026 (X4 POSTS)
Re-advertised
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional, Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Corporate Officer, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor's degree or equivalent qualification in Internal Auditing
/ Accounting / Risk Management. Valid Driver's License. Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge required: Knowledge of relevant Provincial and National legislation.
Public Administration. PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Global IIA Standards, and
other relevant policies & guidelines. Skills required: Policy analysis.
Communication skills (Written and verbal). Planning. Analytical skills.
Organizing. Problem solving. Time management. Client orientation and
customer focus. Ability to work collaboratively with a range of internal services
and external organizations in a facilitating, enabling, advisory or informative
capacity. Functions under pressure. Knowledge of Teammate audit software.
Qualification in Information Technology Audit and Financial Information
Systems. 1-3 years’ experience in audit environment (internship included) will
be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Provide inputs in conducting risk assessments. Assist in planning and conduct
audit assignments in accordance with audit methodology and Global Internal
Audit Standards. Prepare audit programmes. Conduct audit assignments in
accordance with audit methodology and Global Internal Audit Standards.
Gather adequate, reliable and useful evidence. Assist in preparing draft audit
reports for review by management. Conduct ad-hoc assignments and follow up
audits. Assist in the administration of the Internal Audit activities.
132
ENQUIRIES : Mr SM Lekola Tel No: (510) 408 1000
POST 17/178 : HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER (PERSAL) REF NO: H/H/1/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum, plus 13th Cheque, Housing Allowance, Medical Aid
(Optional, Employee must meet the prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Corporate Officer, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent at NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge
and Skills: HR Related prescripts and Acts. PERSAL System functionality.
Excel skills. PERSAL Policy. PERSAL Delegations. PERSAL Helpdesk User
Friendly Manual. Communication (verbal and written) Computer literacy (Word,
Excel, Outlook), interpersonal and ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Assist in handling PERSAL Status report, Exceptional reports, Circulars,
Practice Notes, monitoring letters, System Generated ID’s, Work Permit Expiry
according to pre-scribed guidelines. Clearing of the suspense file. Assist in
handling SCC. Assist in handling of reset system and functionality of all users.
Assist in registering PERSAL LU Name & IP address to enable new PERSAL
User to access the PERSAL system from his/her own computer as well as
enabling the restriction of access as per prescribed Treasury Regulations.
Provide information on PERSAL related on request. Record, organise, store,
capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers
and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies. Distribute
documents/packages to various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain
the filing system for the component. Keep and maintain the incoming and
outgoing document register of the unit. Update and maintain PERSAL Training
Database (TMS System). Assist in co-ordinating PERSAL training Filing of all
documents Monthly reporting and record keeping. Maintain PERSAL in terms
of the National Minimum Information Requirements (NMIR). Check / Capture /
Correct / Update personnel particulars. Capture inputs done at institutional
level.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. KV Mofokeng Tel No: (510) 408 1000
133
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
It is the department’s intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in
the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and
disability status is required.
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted online at:
http://professionaljobcentre.gpg.gov.za site or https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/.
Z83 and updated CV must be attached.
CLOSING DATE : 08 June 2026 @00:00 midnight.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly New signed Z83 form,
comprehensive CV, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The Completed and signed form
should be accompanied by a recently updated CV only specifying all
experience indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well as indicating three
reference persons with the following information: name and contact number(s),
email address and an indication of the capacity in which the reference is known
to the candidate. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the interview date following communication from HR.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal
record, citizen, credit record checks, qualification, and employment
verification). Confirmation of final appointment will be subject to a positive
security clearance. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered. The persons appointed to this position will be subjected to a
security clearance. SMS candidates will be required to undergo a Competency
Assessment as prescribed by the DPSA. All shortlisted candidates, including
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise, and the other will be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment.
Gauteng Provincial Treasury (GPT) reserves the right to utilise practical
exercises / tests for non-SMS positions and during the recruitment process
(candidates who are shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to determine the
suitability of candidates for the post(s). GPT also reserves the right to cancel
the filling / not to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the
recruitment process. Prospective applicants must please use the new Z83
which is effective as of 01 January 2021. Pre-entry SMS certificate is
compulsory for SMS appointments. To access the SMS pre-entry certificate
course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For
more information regarding the course please visit the NSG website:
www.thensg.gov.za
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the following (2) SMS posts were advertised in
Public Service Vacancy Circular 16 dated 15 May 2026: (1) Deputy Director
General: Municipal Finance Management with Ref No: Refs/048597. (2) Chief
Director: Public Finance with Ref No: Refs/048599. The closing date for the
positions has been extended to 08 June 2026 @00:00 midnight.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/179 : DIRECTOR: OPEN TENDER SUPPORT REF NO: REFS/049767
Directorate: Provincial Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive package), consists of 70% Basic salary
and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Tertiary Qualification (NQF Level 7) in Supply Chain Management/ Logistics/ /
Public Administration / Economics/ Commerce. 5 years of experience at a
middle/senior managerial level. Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme
must be submitted prior to appointment. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Monitor, review, and provide oversight on procurement planning in the
province. Provide mechanism/s on improving compliance and implementation
134
of planned procurement. Manage, provide oversight and report on the
implementation of the Open Tender Process in the Province. Establish uniform
processes and procedures across the supply chain operations to ensure
consistency and reliability in the process. Ensure achievement of efficiency and
effective operation of the unit. Understand, interpret and apply SCM prescripts.
Data management to ensure accurate reporting. Manage the performance of
probity auditing services to ensure effectiveness and value-add. Improve
supply chain efficiencies and advance competence in supply chain
development. Identify supply chain risks, develop and implement risk
management strategies and contingency plans. Leverage technology to
enhance supply chain operations and drive innovation. Provision of strategic
leadership in the management of the supply chain. Lead and mentor the supply
chain team, fostering a culture of high performance and professional
development. Provide in-house SCM training and workshops on SCM reforms.
Manage stakeholders. Foster collaborations with various business units.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : The position is earmarked to address employment equity in terms of female
and youth representation at Senior Management level.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/180 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT ACQUISITIONS
AND LOGISTICS REF NO: REFS/049768
Directorate: Office of the Chief Financial Officer
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive package), consists of 70% Basic salary and
30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 7 Degree in Supply Chain Management / Procurement / Finance /
B-Tech in Logistics. 3 - 5 years’ experience in the Supply Chain Management
environment at an ASD level. Driver’s License.
DUTIES : To manage the sub-directorate, develop, review, and implement the supply
chain acquisition management framework and policies processes and
methodologies. Manage the functional operation of the Sub directorate: Supply
Chain Management (Acquisition and Logistics Management). Oversee the
biding process. Compilation of bid documents and advertisements. Manage
the compilation of the list of prospective providers. Compile terms of reference
to invite service providers for an expression of interest. Manage the sourcing
of bids from the database according to the threshold values determined by the
National Treasury. Manage and supervise employees to ensure an effective
acquisition management service and undertake all administrative functions
required with regard to financial and HR administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baleseng Sedibe Email: baleseng.sedibe@gauteng.gov.za
POST 17/181 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSVERSAL RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO:
REFS/049769
Directorate: Financial Governance
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive package), consists of 70% Basic salary and
30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A tertiary qualification Degree (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Risk
Management / Accounting/ Finance/Internal Auditing Membership to IRMSA is
an added advantage. 3 - 5 years’ experience in the Risk Management/Auditing
field at Assistant Director level. Experience in team management/supervision.
Drivers licence.
DUTIES : To promote and enforce Provincial Risk Management Services in Departments
and delegated Municipalities. Monitor, enforce and report on Risk
Management. Implementation in Departments and Municipalities. Provide
support and capacity building to Provincial Departments and Municipalities.
Development and maintenance of the Risk Profiles. Management and
Administration. Technical support to sector departments. Ensure submission of
accurate and timeous management reports. Perform operational planning and
inputs into strategic planning. Monitor performance agreements and
performance assessment of staff and quality control of work delivered.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – email: tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za
135
POST 17/182 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/049770
(X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Financial Governance
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Accounting/Finance/Auditing. 3 – 5 years’ experience in Accounting or Auditing
or Asset Management field. Knowledge and understanding of PFMA and
corresponding Treasury Regulations and Asset Management Frameworks.
Knowledge and understanding of GRAP, GAAP and /or IFRIS Advanced excel
(VLOOKUP function, Pivot table), PowerPoint and word.
DUTIES : Final review of draft AFS based on Audit Committee findings, Issue findings
report where audit committee didn’t approve the AFS. All GPG departments,
trading and public entities IFS/AFS reviewed against the applicable accounting
frameworks. Review (WIP) reports from the departments to identify project
status. Update of GPG immovable asset register with completed projects.
Master Data Clean-up for SAP implementation. Review of inventory reports
submitted by GPG departments. Review close out reports on verification and
ensure that the FAR is updated. All GPG departments monitored on annual
asset verification process. Review (WIP) reports from the departments to
identify project status. Review of section 40 reports within set timelines for both
assets and inventory reports and update GPG Immovable Asset. Review
progress on implementation against IFS. Tracking Implementation of Audit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Teneko Bangelo email: teneko.bangelo@gauteng.gov.za
POST 17/183 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACCOUNTING COMPLIANCE (STATUTORY
DEDUCTION MANAGEMENT) REF NO: REFS/049771 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Financial Governance
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) as recognised by SAQA in
Accounting/Finance. 3-5 years’ experience in Statutory Deductions
Management environment. Experience in use of PERSAL, BAS and SAP.
Project management will be an advantage.
DUTIES : Contribute in innovation and project implementation. Manage staff and ensure
achievement of Operational Plan targets. Review and approve claim letters to
each owing department. Analyse; identify and break down for each
department. Recover Interdepartmental debts and facilitate payments to 3rd
party creditors. Implement process improvement processes. Ensure
compliancy to ISO 9001, PFMA, Treasury Regulations and other legislations in
relations to Statutory Deductions Management and Human Resources
Management. Prepare inter-departmental statements. Provide CFO’s, HR &
Finance managers in GPG departments with monthly management, reports in
relations to Statutory Deductions. Perform other value add services namely.
Identify and prevent or recover fraudulent or incorrect payments. Monthly & Bi-
Annual Tax and UIF Reconciliation. Resolve challenges on unresolved cases
as reported by the Practitioner.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Teneko Bangelo email: teneko.bangelo@gauteng.gov.za
POST 17/184 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT QUALITY ASSURANCE REF
NO: REFS/049772
Directorate: Gauteng Audit Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) as recognised by SAQA in
Internal Audit, Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) Professional Internal Auditing
(PIA), General Internal Auditing (GIA) and Internal Audit Technician (IAT) will
be an added advantage. 3-5 years’ experience as an Internal Auditor and
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To conduct quality assurance reviews to ensure there is conformance to the
Global Internal Audit Standards, assist with software administration,
methodology development and maintenance. Develop and maintain GAS
policies and methodologies: Implementation of the approved QA plan: Effective
management of software quality control of all updates and changes to audit
136
software: Ensure effective stakeholders management and marketing internal
audit: Staff development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baleseng Sedibe Email: baleseng.sedibe@gauteng.gov.za
137
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, TOURISM AND ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Department of Economic Development, Tourism, and Environmental Affairs is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer, and preference will be given to suitably qualified candidates from designated
groups in terms of the Employment Equity Act, 1998.
APPLICATIONS : Please note that applicants should only use one of the following methods when
applying for a post: either through the online e-recruitment system, emailing
the Z83 and CV directly to the relevant department, or submitting a hard-copy
application as directed:
Applications may alternatively be forwarded to the Department of Economic
Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Private Bag X9152,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200, OR hand delivered to the Ground Floor, 270 Jabu
Ndlovu Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3201, in the vacancy box provided for the
attention of Ms Nondumiso Buthelezi / Mr Sipho Zangwa.
“Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the KZN online e-
Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and
CV directly to the following email address: kznjobs@kznedtea.gov.za All
attachments for Email applications must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicating
the correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of
your email Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS), where our friendly staff will assist you with
applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the
Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) list at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.”
CLOSING DATE : 12 June 2026 (at 16h00). Applications received after the closing date and time
will not be considered.
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on the new Application for Employment form
(Z83), which became effective from the 1st of January 2021, obtainable from
any Public Service Department or can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-
vacancies. The form must be completed in full, and the application form should
be initiated, signed, and dated. All required information on the Z83 must be
provided. Failure to complete or disclose all information will automatically
disqualify the applicant. The completed and signed Z83 must be accompanied
by an updated, detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV). Dates of starting and leaving
employment must be given as DD/MM/YYYY. Shortlisted candidates must
submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview, following
communication from Human Resources. Should an applicant have a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications submitted electronically
will be taken as a final application and may not be amended or supplemented
in any way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to undergo a competency test/technical
exercise. Candidates are discouraged from sending their applications through
registered mail, as the Department will not take responsibility for the non-
collection of those applications. The appointment is subject to a positive
outcome obtained from the State Security Agency to the following checks
(security clearance, qualification, citizenship, and previous employment
verifications). The Department will conduct reference checks with the HR of the
current and/or previous employer(s) apart from the referees listed. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements, and the
other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidate/s to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on implementing competency-based
138
assessment). The competency assessment will test generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
Before the appointment for SMS positions, the appointee will be required to
produce a Pre-entry certificate for the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme, a public service-specific training program applicable to all
applicants who aspire to join the SMS. The course is offered by the National
School of Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the
name Certificate for entry, and the full details can be obtained by following the
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/smspre-entryprogramme.
Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the Department is not in a position
to cover any travel and subsistence costs associated with recruitment
processes. The Provincial Administration of KwaZulu-Natal is an equal
opportunity, affirmative action employer, and women and people with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. The Department reserves the right not to
make these appointments. All information submitted will be treated as
confidential. The Department reserves the right to withhold the filling of the
abovementioned posts at any time before an appointment
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/185 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT REF NO: CD-ECO
EMPOWER- 01/ MAY 2026
Business Unit: Economic Empowerment
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package
to be structured under the rules of SMS)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in Economics/Accounting/ Development
Studies, Business Management at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA.
Postgraduate qualification in an appropriate Bachelor’s Degree will be an
added advantage. A minimum of five years at a Senior Managerial level in one
or more of the following areas: Economic Transformation, Economic
Empowerment of target group (Women, Youth, People with Disabilities,
Township/Rural Economies Revitalization, and Black Industrialists).
Completion of Nyukela Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management
Service) upon appointment. A valid driver’s licence. Skills, Training, and
Competencies: The successful candidate must have broad knowledge and
understanding of the programmes and activities of the Department; knowledge
of socio-economic conditions in the Economic Development field, with
particular emphasis on the Economic Empowerment of Youth, Women, and
People with Disabilities. Knowledge of Provincial and National Economic
Policies and Strategy, Dynamics of Economic Transformation in KZN Province,
National Small Business Act, Integrated Small Enterprise Development
Strategy, Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Strategy; Township and
Rural Economies Revitalization, Developmental Priorities of KwaZulu - Natal
Province. Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service regulatory
framework, e.g., Public Service Act, PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public
Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Occupational Health and Safety
Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Skills Development Act, Service
Delivery Frameworks. Knowledge of the National Development Plan and the
Provincial Growth and Development Plan, Industrial Development Strategy,
Integrated Policy Action Plan (IPAP 2, New Growth Path (NGP), and Provincial
Growth and Development Strategy. Skills: Excellent communication and
interpersonal skills, Excellent leadership skills, Ability to interpret and apply
policy, Computer literacy, Strategic Planning, Project Management,
Presentation skills, Negotiation skills, Report writing skills, Assertiveness skills,
Coaching and mentoring skills, good planning and organizational skills, Well-
developed analytical and research Skills
DUTIES : Facilitate and coordinate economic transformation operations and economic
empowerment compliance in the province. Oversee the implementation of
youth, women, and people with disabilities economic empowerment in the
province. Facilitate and coordinate the localization of opportunities, townships,
and rural economies revitalization in the province. Oversee the implementation
of the Black Industrialist programme. Ensure the development and
implementation of Economic Empowerment policies, strategies, programmes,
such as risk and integrity management, Operation Sukuma Sakhe/ DDM.
139
Ensure effective management of the resources of the office of the Chief
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Sibeta: Tel No: (033) 264 2612
NOTE : Preference will be given to Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities who
meet the requirements.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/186 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS REF NO: DD- ECO ANALY
02/MAY 2026
Business Unit: Economic Analysis
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree / Three-year National Diploma in Economics
at NQF Level 6/7 as recognized by SAQA. A postgraduate degree will serve as
an added advantage. A minimum of 3 years ‘experience in junior management
or at an economist level focusing on economic analysis, economic modelling,
economic research, and statistical analysis. A valid driver’s License. Skills,
Training, and Competencies: The successful candidate must have rigorous
and in-depth knowledge of economic analysis, applied statistics and
econometrics, and policies in the Public Sector. Sound knowledge of Skills
Development Act, National Development Plan, Project Management
Principles, South Africa’s Automotive Industry Master Plan, National Tourism
Master Plan, South Africa Industry Development Plan, National Spatial
Economic Development Plan, Provincial Spatial Economic Development Plan,
South Africa Trade Policy, National Framework for Local Economic
Development (LED), South Africa Macroeconomic Framework. Sound
knowledge and understanding of the Public Service Regulatory Framework,
e.g., Public Service Act, PFMA, Constitution of the Republic of South Africa,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Finance Management
Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Service
Delivery Frameworks (Batho Pele Principles), Employee Performance
Management System, Skills Development Act, Promotion of Access to
Information Act, National Development Plan, Project Management Principles.
Skills Ability to provide leadership in Provincial and National Economic
Analysis, Forecasting, economic modelling, applied statistical data analysis,
strategic Management and People Skills and use of advantaged excel and
other data analysis tools, economic analysis, data analysis, policy development
Communication skills (verbal and written), presentation skills, report writing,
planning and organizing, advanced research skills, policy
formulation/development, strategic management, interpersonal relations,
project management, computer literacy, time management, change leadership
and transformation, diversity management skills, facilitation skills, and
decision-making skills. Attributes such as integrity, respect, honesty, teamwork,
vision, transparency, commitment, and confidentiality.
DUTIES : Facilitate the conducting of in-depth economic analysis using advanced
quantitative methods and tools; Facilitate the collection, organization, and
validation of relevant economic data from various sources; Establish
partnerships with relevant stakeholders in the economy sector; Develop
economic analysis policies and strategies aimed at improving service delivery;
Manage the resources of the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. C Hamadziripi Tel No: (033) 264 2781
NOTE : All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment equity
targets of the department, which is African Male, Coloured Male, Indian Male,
and People with Disabilities who meet the requirements are encouraged to
apply.
POST 17/187 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRADE PROMOTION FACILITATION REF NO: DD-
TIPS 03/MAY 2026
Business Unit: Trade And Sector Development
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in Trade Economics/International Trade
/Business Economics/Commerce Degree in Economics or Development
Studies/Business Administration at NQF Level 7 as recognized by SAQA. An
140
Honours/ Master’s Degree in any of the above fields will serve as an added
advantage. A minimum of 3 years’ junior management experience in the area
of Trade and Investment Facilitation. Experience and knowledge of global,
provincial, and national trade and investment issues and their implications for
the provincial economy is also required. A valid driver’s License is required.
Skills, Training and Competencies: The successful candidate must have an in-
depth knowledge of Provincial and National Trade and Investment strategies
and frameworks as a prerequisite. Knowledge of the National Industrial Policy
Framework, National Trade and Investment Policies and key Government
initiatives in the area of trade and Investment, including but not limited to the
African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AFCFTA), South African Customs
and Excise Act, Transport and Logistics Strategy, Common Market for Eastern
and Southern Africa(COMESA) Trade Regulations, World Trade Organization
(WTO) Agreements, International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Trade
Regulations and Incoterms, Good knowledge of the Development of strategies
and policy implementation according to agree norms and standards.
Knowledge of National Development Regulations, National Development Plan,
KZN Investment Strategy, KZN Export Strategy, Project Management Principle,
Industry Policy Action Plan (IPAP), Special Economic Zones (SEZ) Act and
SEZ Policy, Provincial Growth Development Strategy (PGDS), International
Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Trade Regulations and Incoterms. Sound
knowledge and understanding of the Public Service Regulatory Framework,
e.g., Public Service Act, PFMA, Constitution of the Republic of South Africa,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Finance Management
Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Service
Delivery Frameworks (Batho Pele Principles), Employee Performance
Management System, Skills Development Act, Promotion of Access to
Information Act, National Development Plan, Project Management Principle.
Skills such as Communication at all level including Provincial Departments,
Senior Management, and Private Sector Organization, strong research and
analytical skills, sound leadership and interpersonal skills, management skills,
strong coordinating and administrative capabilities, report writing, policy
formulation/development, strategic management, interpersonal relations,
project management, computer literacy, time management, change leadership
and transformation, diversity management skills, facilitation skills, and
decision-making skills. Attributes such as integrity, respect, honesty, teamwork,
vision, transparency, commitment, and confidentiality.
DUTIES : Facilitate the Development of systematic marketing products to promote Trade
and Investment in the Province; Facilitate and Coordinate the implementation
of Trade Promotion Policies; Facilitate engagements with social partners to
ensure Industrial Development and Economic growth in the Province through
Trade and Investment; Facilitate the utilization of transport and logistics as
means of promoting economic growth in the Province; Manage the resources
of the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. FF Pupuma Tel No: (033) 264 2543
NOTE : All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment equity
targets of the department, which is People with Disabilities, African Male,
Coloured Male, and Indian Male Who meet the requirements are encouraged
to apply. For People with Disabilities, reasonable accommodations will be
provided for the application process and the job itself.
POST 17/188 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT MANAGEMENT REF NO: CEO – EIM 04/MAY 2026
Business Unit: Environmental Quality Management
SALARY : R636 978 – R728 646 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Umzinyathi District
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must have: An appropriate Honours or equivalent
qualification in Natural Sciences, Environmental Management, Environmental
Law, or Environmental Sciences. EAPASA Registration in terms of S24H of
NEMA. 6 years’ experience in Environmental Management, of which a
minimum of 3 years must be in Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). A
valid driver’s license. Skills, Training, and Competencies: The successful
candidate must have practical knowledge of the Environmental Impact
Assessment process; good working knowledge of Environmental Legislation
and policies; knowledge and understanding of the environmental impact
hierarchy and regulations; sound understanding of other integrated
141
environmental management tools; knowledge and understanding of the
regulatory framework for the Public Service e.g. Public Service Act, PFMA,
Treasury Regulation; Public Sector Regulations, Labour Relations Act.
Understanding the objectives and provisions of the National Environmental
Management Act, 1998, and associated legislation. Skills: Ability to
communicate at all levels with relevant stakeholders. Ability to evaluate and
review documents; Administrative management; Financial management;
Project management; computer literacy, Report writing; Analytical and
research skills; Presentation skills; decision making, people management;
research skills; Conflict management; good interpersonal relations; problem
solving; communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : The incumbent will be required to: Facilitate and coordinate the EIA process,
including the development of Environmental Authorizations, conditions of
authorizations, and or exemptions. Facilitate and coordinate the dissemination
of information and technical or procedural advice relating to impact
management. Facilitate and coordinate the implementation of other IEM tools.
Perform and manage administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Gambu Tel No: (033) 328 8041
NOTE : All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment equity
targets of the department, which is African Male, Coloured Male, Indian Male.
People with Disabilities who meet the requirements are encouraged to apply.
Successful candidates must note that they will have to serve in the districts
where they are placed for a minimum of five (05) Years before any transfers
within the department can be considered.
POST 17/189 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: COMPLIANCE
MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT REF NO: CEO – CME 05/MAY 2026
(X2 POSTS)
Business Unit: Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement
SALARY : R636 978 – R728 646 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : King Cetshwayo
Umgungundlovu Districts
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must have: An appropriate Honours Degree in
Environmental Management/Environmental Law/Natural Science field. Trained
as an Environmental Management Inspector. A minimum of 6 years’ experience
in Environmental Management of which 3 years must be as an Environmental
Management Inspector (EMI) within Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement,
currently designated Environmental Management Inspectors within
Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement will be an added advantage. A valid
driver’s license. Skills, Training, and Competencies: The successful candidate
must have practical knowledge of Environmental Legislation; NEMA; Specific
Environmental Management Acts (SEMAs); Public Service Regulations; Basic
Conditions of Employment Act; Public Service Act; Criminal Procedure Act;
Good working knowledge of Environmental Legislation and Policies;
Knowledge and understanding of the regulatory framework for the Public
Service e.g. PFMA, Treasury Regulation, Public Sector Regulations, Labour
Relations Act; Understanding the objectives and provisions of the National
Environmental Management Act, 1998, the Environmental Conservations Act,
1989 and subordinate legislation. Skills: Computer literacy; presentation skills;
report writing skills; analytical thinking; problem-solving skills; interpersonal
relations; criminal investigation skills; communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : The incumbent will be required to: Management of compliance monitoring
including proactive sector compliance inspections and other projects.
Management of criminal investigation processes including cases which result
in criminal enforcement action according to the investigation protocol and
department mandate. Management of administrative enforcement process,
including drafting and issuing of legally defensible pre-notices, notices,
directives and administration of legal correspondence and civil litigation.
Management of compliance promotion/awareness programs. Management of
administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nokuthula Mthembu at 078 272 0598
NOTE : NB: All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the department, which is African Male, Coloured Male, Indian
Male. People with Disabilities who meet the requirements are encouraged to
apply. Successful candidates must note that they will have to serve in the
142
districts where they are placed for a minimum of five (05) years before any
transfers within the department can be considered.
POST 17/190 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE: SPECIALISED PRODUCTION
GRADE A-C (OSD): COMPLIANCE MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT
REF NO: EO SP – CME 06/MAY 2026 (X3 POSTS)
Business Unit: Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement
SALARY : R518 769 – R628 653 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Districts:
Harry Gwala
Umzinyathi
Zululand
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must have: An appropriate Degree in Environmental
Management, Environmental Law, Natural Sciences, or Environmental
Sciences, or a relevant qualification; A minimum of three (3) years’ experience
in Environmental Management, of which one (1) year must be as an
Environmental Management Inspector (EMI) within Compliance Monitoring
and Enforcement. Designated as an Environmental Management Inspector as
well as Honours or Postgraduate qualifications in Environmental Management,
will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s license (code B). Skills,
Training, and Competencies: The successful candidate must understand the
objectives and provisions of the National Environmental Management Act,
1998 and associated legislation, including Specific Environmental
Management Acts (SEMAs); knowledge and understanding of the Criminal
Procedure Act, knowledge and understanding of the regulatory framework for
the Public Service e.g. Public Service Act, PFMA, Treasury Regulation; Public
Sector Regulations, Labour Relations Act. Skills: Ability to communicate at all
levels with relevant stakeholders. Ability to evaluate and review documents;
Administrative management; Financial management; Project management;
computer literacy, Report writing; Analytical and research skills; Presentation
skills; decision making, people management; Conflict management; good
interpersonal relations; problem solving; communication skills (verbal and
written). Values/ Attributes such as integrity, respect, honesty, discipline,
teamwork, vision, transparency, commitment, and working under pressure.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be required to: Conduct compliance monitoring and pro-
active sector compliance inspections; Conduct all criminal investigations which
result in criminal enforcement section according to the investigation protocol
and departmental mandate; Performing administrative enforcement process,
including drafting of legally defensible pre-notices, notices, directives and
administrative of legal correspondence and civil litigation; Participate in
Compliance Promotion/ Awareness; Perform administrative and related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nokuthula Mthembu Tel No: (033) 328 8021
NOTE : NB: All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the department, which is African Male, Coloured Male, Indian
Male. People with Disabilities who meet the requirements are encouraged to
apply. Successful candidates must note that they will have to serve in the
districts where they are placed for a minimum of five (05) years before any
transfers within the department can be considered.
POST 17/191 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: POLICY AND LEGISLATION REF NO: AD REG
SERV 07/MAY 2026 (X2 POSTS)
Business Unit: Regulation Services
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 7 in Public Policy, Policy Development as
recognized by SAQA. An LLB Degree will serve as an added advantage. A
minimum of 3 years’ administrative/ practical work experience within an
Economic Development, Research, Legislative, or Policy Development
environment. A valid driver’s License. Skills, Training and Competencies: The
successful candidate must have an in-depth knowledge of legislations
pertaining to Liquor, Gaming and Betting, formal and informal Business
Regulations, and Consumer Protection Services both Nationally and
provincially and internationally, Business Act of 1991, PFMA, Various
Economic Policies of Government, Public Service and its Regulations, Labour
143
Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act, Public Finance
Management Act, Human Rights, Gender Equity Policy, Computer Literacy,
Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles, Knowledge of Management Principles,
Policy formulation, policy analysis, interpretation of policy and interpretation of
statute, research and legislative processes, Public services reporting
procedures and work environment, Broad Knowledge of the Department’s
strategic plan, Broad knowledge of the public entity responsible for liquor
strategic plan. Skills such as Administrative management, Financial
management, Project management, Analytical and research skills, Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills, Excellent Leadership skills, Ability to
interpret and apply policy, Computer literacy, Public Relations, Presentation
skills, Negotiation skills, Report Writing skills, Facilitation skills, Research
Skills, Conflict management skills, Co-ordination, Public speaking skills, Basic
driving skills. Attributes such as Decision Making, Caring and Supportive,
Ethics and Integrity, Accountability, Transparency, Innovation, Professionalism,
Commitment, Honesty, Dedication, and Leadership.
DUTIES : Implement programmes of action relating to Business Regulatory Reforms;
Develop and drive research initiatives to drive Policy and Legislative mandate
pertaining to KZN Business Regulatory environment; Provide regulatory
support on processing Appeals to the MEC for identified sectors; Monitor
regulatory changes and industry trends that may impact on the Province’s
legislative mandate relating to business regulatory environment and propose
strategies to effectively influence outcomes on relevant matters; Provide
support in coordinating and conducting public consultations in relation to
policies and legislations reviewed and developed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Ngubane at 079 492 0974
NOTE : NB: All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the department, which is African Male, Coloured Male, Indian
Male. People with Disabilities who meet the requirements are encouraged to
apply.
POST 17/192 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A-C: COMPLIANCE MONITORING
AND ENFORCEMENT REF NO: EO–CME 08/MAY 2026 (X12 POSTS)
Business Unit: Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement
SALARY : R357 597 – R395 352 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Districts:
Ethekwini (X3 Posts)
Umgungundlovu (X2 Posts)
Harry Gwala
Ugu
Ilembe
King Cetshwayo
Amajuba
Umzinyathi
Uthukela
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must have: An appropriate Degree in Environmental
Management/ Natural Sciences/ Environmental Law, or relevant qualification;
A minimum of one to two (1-2) years’ experience in Environmental
Management. Trained as an Environmental Management Inspector, as well as
Honours or Postgraduate qualifications in Environmental Management/ Natural
Science/ Environmental Law, will serve as an added advantage. A valid driver’s
license (code B). Skills, Training, and Competencies: The successful candidate
must have practical knowledge of Environmental legislation (NEMA), Specific
Environmental Management Acts (SEMAs); good working knowledge of
Environmental Legislation and policies; Understanding the objectives and
provisions of the National Environmental Management Act, 1998, and
associated legislation. Knowledge and understanding of the Regulatory
Framework for the Public Service, e.g. Public Service Act, PFMA, Treasury
Regulation, Public Sector Regulations, Labour Relations Act. Skills: Ability to
communicate at all levels with relevant stakeholders. Ability to evaluate and
review documents; Administrative Management; Financial Management;
Project Management; Computer Literacy, Report writing; Analytical and
research skills; Presentation skills; decision making, people management;
Conflict management; good interpersonal relations; problem solving;
communication skills (verbal and written). Values/ Attributes such as integrity,
respect, honesty, discipline, teamwork, vision, transparency, commitment.
144
DUTIES : The incumbent will be required to: Provide proactive Compliance Monitoring
which triggered by the Environmental Authorisations/ Permits/ Licenses/
Environmental Management Plans (EMP); Conduct Sector Compliance
Inspections and other projects which would be triggered by identified issues in
a particular area with/without Environmental Authorisation; Provide reactive
Compliance Monitoring; Conduct Compliance Enforcement operations
including Biodiversity Conservation matters)· Participate in compliance
promotion and awareness workshops/campaigns; and Perform all
administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Nokuthula Mthembu Tel No: (033) 328 8021
NOTE : NB: All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the department, which is African Male, Coloured Male, Indian
Male. People with Disabilities who meet the requirements are encouraged to
apply. Successful candidates must note that they will have to serve in the
districts where they are placed for a minimum of five (05) years before any
transfers within the department can be considered.
POST 17/193 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A-C: AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT
REF NO: EO – AQM 09/MAY 2026
Business Unit: Environmental Quality Management
SALARY : R357 597 – R395 352 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must have: An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in
Environmental Science / Environmental Management / Natural Sciences/
Environmental Law, or Chemical / Electrical Engineering; A minimum of one to
two (1-2) years’ relevant experience in Environmental Management/Air Quality
Management. A valid driver’s license (code B). Skills, Training, and
Competencies: The successful candidate must have a good working
knowledge of Environmental Legislation and Policies; Knowledge and
understanding of the environmental impact hierarchy and regulations; a sound
understanding of other integrated environmental tools. Understanding the
objectives and provisions of the National Environmental Management Act,
1998, and associated legislation. Knowledge of legal compliance, Knowledge
and understanding of the Regulatory Framework for the Public Service, e.g.,
Public Service Act, PFMA, Treasury Regulation, Public Sector Regulations,
Labour Relations Act. Skills: Ability to communicate at all levels with relevant
stakeholders; Ability to evaluate and review documents; Technical Report
writing, Scientific Methodologies and Models, Professional Judgement, Policy
Development and Analysis, Scientific Presentation, Research and
Development, Mentoring, Administrative Management; Financial
Management; Project Management; Computer Literacy, Report writing;
Analytical and Research skills; Presentation skills; Decision Making, People
Management; Conflict Management; Good Interpersonal Relations; Problem
Solving; Communication Skills (verbal and written). Values/ Attributes such as
integrity, respect, honesty, discipline, teamwork, vision, transparency,
commitment.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be required to: Contribute towards the development and
administration of Air Quality Management Systems and Policies; Provide
technical and subject specific comments and advice on basic technical reports;
Provide support in the development and implementation of specific projects;
Provide support with regards to compliance monitoring and compliance with
respect to statutory obligations; and Perform all administrative and related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Thabani Gambu Tel No: (033) 328 8041
NOTE : NB: All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the department, which is African Male, Coloured Male, Indian
Male. People with Disabilities who meet the requirements are encouraged to
apply. Successful candidates must note that they will have to serve in the
districts where they are placed for a minimum of five (05) years before any
transfers within the department can be considered.
POST 17/194 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A-C: POLLUTION AND WASTE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: EO – PWM 10/MAY 2026 (X6 POSTS)
Business Unit: Environmental Quality Management
SALARY : R357 597 – R395 352 per annum, (OSD)
145
CENTRE : Districts:
Umkhanyakude
Uthukela
Umzinyathi
Ugu
Harry Gwala
Umgungundlovu
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must have: An appropriate Degree in Environmental
Management/ Natural Sciences, and Environmental Law. A minimum of one to
two (1-2) years’ relevant experience in Environmental Management, preferably
in Pollution and Waste. A valid driver’s license (code B). Proof of registration
with EAPASA as an EAP/candidate EAP or evidence of awaiting a decision on
a submitted EAPASA application for registration will be an added advantage.
Skills, Training, and Competencies: The successful candidate must have a
good working knowledge of Environmental Legislation and Policies focus on
Pollution and Waste Management; Knowledge and understanding of the
objectives and provisions of the National Environmental Management Act,
1998; National Environmental Management Waste Act, and subordinate
Legislation. Good working knowledge of Waste Licensing procedures, and
experience of Environmental Auditing and Inspection methodologies.
Knowledge of Waste Management Legal Frameworks in SA; Sound
understanding of other integrated Environmental Tools. Understanding the
objectives and provisions of the National Environmental Management Act,
1998, and associated legislation. Knowledge and understanding of the
Regulatory Framework for the Public Service, e.g., Public Service Act, PFMA,
Treasury Regulation, Public Sector Regulations, Labour Relations Act. Skills:
Ability to communicate at all levels with relevant stakeholders; Ability to
evaluate and review documents; Technical Report writing, Environmental
Auditing, Policy Development and Analysis, Research and Development,
Mentoring, Administrative Management; Financial Management; Project
Management; Computer Literacy, Report writing; Analytical and Research
skills; Presentation skills; Decision Making, People Management; Conflict
Management; Good Interpersonal Relations; Problem Solving; Communication
Skills (verbal and written). Values/ Attributes such as integrity, respect, honesty,
discipline, teamwork, vision, transparency, commitment.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be required to: Manage waste-related information and
integration of waste management considerations in planning initiatives;
Administer legislative obligations in terms of the approval and compliance
monitoring of waste management activities; Respond to waste-related or
pollution complaints and incidents; Promote best practice and
entrepreneurship in waste management; and Perform all administrative and
related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Thabani Gambu Tel No: (033) 328 8041
NOTE : NB: All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the department, which is African Male, Coloured Male, Indian
Male. People with Disabilities who meet the requirements are encouraged to
apply. Successful candidates must note that they will have to serve in the
districts where they are placed for a minimum of five (05) years before any
transfers within the department can be considered.
POST 17/195 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A-C: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
ASSESSMENT REF NO: EO – EIA 11/MAY 2026 (X5 POSTS)
Business Unit: Environmental Quality Management
SALARY : R357 597 – R395 352 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Districts:
Ugu
Harry Gwala
Ethekwini
Umgungundlovu (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must have: An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in
Environmental Science / Environmental Management / Natural Sciences/
Environmental Law; A minimum of one to two (1-2) years’ experience in
Environmental Management. A valid driver’s license (code B). Proof of
registration with EAPASA as an EAP/candidate EAP or evidence of awaiting a
decision on a submitted EAPASA application for registration. Skills, Training,
and Competencies: The successful candidate must have a good working
146
knowledge of Environmental Legislation and Policies; Knowledge and
understanding of the environmental impact hierarchy and regulations; a sound
understanding of other integrated environmental tools. Understanding the
objectives and provisions of the National Environmental Management Act,
1998, and associated legislation. Knowledge of legal compliance, Knowledge
and understanding of the Regulatory Framework for the Public Service, e.g.,
Public Service Act, PFMA, Treasury Regulation, Public Sector Regulations,
Labour Relations Act. Skills: Ability to communicate at all levels with relevant
stakeholders; proven verbal and written communications skills; fully computer
literate; Problem solving, interpersonal relations, Ability to evaluate and review
documents; Technical Report writing, Policy Development and Analysis,
Scientific Research and Development, Mentoring, Administrative
Management; Financial Management; Project Management; Computer
Literacy, Report writing; Analytical and Research skills; Presentation skills;
Decision Making, People Management; Conflict Management; Good
Interpersonal Relations. Values/ Attributes such as integrity, respect, honesty,
discipline, teamwork, vision, transparency, commitment.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be required to: Evaluate Environmental Authorisation
applications; Provide technical and procedural advice on environmental issues;
Provide internal cooperation, liaison, and support in the unit; and Perform all
administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Thabani Gambu Tel No: (033) 328 8041
NOTE : NB: All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the department, which is African Male, Coloured Male, Indian
Male. People with Disabilities who meet the requirements are encouraged to
apply. Successful candidates must note that they will have to serve in the
districts where they are placed for a minimum of five (05) years before any
transfers within the department can be considered.
POST 17/196 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: LOGISTICS SERVICES REF NO:
SCM CLERK – LOG SERV 12/MAY 2026 (X2 POSTS)
Business Unit: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of an appropriate Grade 12/ Matric
Senior Certificate with Accounting, Mathematics, and English, coupled with a
basic understanding of the SCM environment. A valid driver’s License. Skills,
Training, and Competencies: The successful candidate must have a good
working knowledge of Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act and
Treasury Regulations; Knowledge of Basic Accounting System; Supply Chain
Management framework and Principles; Knowledge of Procurement
Processes; Basic principles and practices of storekeeping; Batho Pele
principles; Code of Conduct for SCM Practitioners; Constitution of the Republic
of South Africa no 108 of 1996; Departmental procurement procedures; Public
service act; and Labour relations act. Skills: Analytical Skills; Computer literacy
Skills; Interpersonal Relations skills; Time Management skills; Computer
literacy; Organizing & Planning skills; Language Proficiency, listening skills,
Communication skills (verbal and written), Analytical skills, Time Management
skills, Problem solving skills. Values/ Attributes: Teamwork, Honesty,
Responsibility, Reliability, Accuracy, Correctness, Initiative, and Quality of
Work.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be required to: Provide all travel and accommodation
activities for departmental staff, conduct issuing of orders; Provide capturing
orders on BAS; Provide Entity Registration on BAS; Store/inventory
management; and support logistics policies and procedures implementation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Nxele at 060 920 4651
NOTE : NB: All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the department, which is African Male, Coloured Male, Indian
Male. People with Disabilities who meet the requirements are encouraged to
apply.
POST 17/197 : SECRETARY TO DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING MANAGEMENT
REF NO: SEC TO DIR-STR PLN 13/MAY 2026
Business Unit: Strategic Planning
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
147
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate with typing
as a subject, or any other training course/qualification that will enable the
incumbent to perform the work satisfactorily. Secretarial or Administrative
certification is an advantage. Practical experience in rendering secretarial/
administrative support to Management/ Senior Management will serve as an
added advantage. Computer literacy is a prerequisite. Essential Knowledge,
Skills, and Competencies Required: The successful candidate must have:
Knowledge of relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and procedures.
Reporting formats/templates of the organisation. Sound knowledge on the
operation and utilization of the following equipment: General Office Equipment
i.e. Binding Machines, Dictaphones, computer, printer, photocopier, fax
machine, data video projector, and MS Office i.e. Word, Excel, and
Presentation; Working knowledge of the Public Sector, knowledge and
understanding of the regulatory framework for the Public Service e.g. Public
Service Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations,
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public Service Regulations,
Service Delivery (Batho Pele). Skills: Minute-taking, Sound organizational
skills, good telephone etiquette, and a high level of reliability. Language skills
and the ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from
different backgrounds. Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines.
Confidentiality, fairness, discretion, respect, and a high level of reliability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to: Provide a secretarial/receptionist
support service to the Director, i.e., receive telephone calls and refer the calls
to the correct role players if is not meant for the Manager. Record appointments
and events in the diary of the Director, type documents for the Director, and
operate office equipment; Provides travel and event management services to
the Director i.e. Liaise with travel agencies to make travel arrangements; Check
the arrangements when the relevant documents are received; Arrange
meetings and events for the director and the staff in the directorate; Identify
venue, invite role players, organize refreshments and set up scheduled for
meetings and events; Process the travel and subsistence claims for the
directorate; Provide a clerical support service to the Director i.e. Arrange
meetings and events for the Director, record minutes of the meeting of the
Director, does the filling of documents, administer leave system, Receive,
record and distribute all incoming and outgoing documents, handles the
procurement of standard items e.g. Stationery, refreshments, collect all
relevant documents to enable the Director to prepare for the meetings;
Remains up to date with regard to prescripts and policies to ensure effective
and efficient support to the Director i.e. Studies relevant Public Service and
departmental prescripts/ policies and other documents, remain abreast with the
procedures and process that apply in the office of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Khuzwayo Tel No: (033) 264 2691
NOTE : NB: All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the department. People with Disabilities are encouraged to
apply. This post is only open to people residing in KwaZulu-Natal.
POST 17/198 : SECRETARY TO DIRECTOR: ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT
REF NO: SEC TO DIR ENV QUALITY MAN 14/MAY 2026
Business Unit: Environmental Quality Management
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate or any
qualification that will enable the person to perform work satisfactorily. Practical
experience in rendering secretarial/ administrative support to Management/
Senior Management will serve as an added advantage. Computer literacy is a
prerequisite. Essential Knowledge, Skills, and Competencies Required: The
successful candidate must have: Knowledge of relevant legislation/ policies/
prescripts and procedures. Reporting formats/templates of the organisation.
Sound knowledge on the operation and utilization of the following equipment:
General Office Equipment i.e. Binding Machines, Dictaphones, computer,
printer, photocopier, fax machine, data video projector, and MS Office i.e. Word,
Excel, and Presentation; Working knowledge of the Public Sector, knowledge
and understanding of the regulatory framework for the Public Service e.g.
Public Service Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations, Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public Service
148
Regulations, Service Delivery (Batho Pele). Skills: Minute-taking, Sound
organizational skills, good telephone etiquette, and a high level of reliability.
Language skills and the ability to communicate well with people at different
levels and from different backgrounds. Ability to work under pressure and meet
deadlines. Confidentiality, fairness, discretion, respect, and a high level of
reliability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to: Provide a secretarial/receptionist
support service to the Director, i.e., receive telephone calls and refer the calls
to the correct role players if it is not meant for the Manager. Record
appointments and events in the diary of the Director, type documents for the
Director, and operate office equipment; Provides travel and event management
services to the Director i.e. Liaises with travel agencies to make travel
arrangements; Check the arrangements when the relevant documents are
received; Arranges meetings and events for the director and the staff in the
directorate; Identify venue, invite role players, organize refreshments and set
up scheduled for meetings and events; Processes the travel and subsistence
claims for the directorate; Provide a clerical support service to the Director i.e.
Arrange meetings and events for the Director, records minutes of the meeting
of the Director, does filling of documents, administer leave system, Receive,
record and distribute all incoming and outgoing documents, handles the
procurement of standard items e.g. Stationery, refreshments, collect all
relevant documents to enable the Director to prepare for the meetings;
Remains up to date with regard to prescripts and policies to ensure effective
and efficient support to the Director i.e. Studies relevant Public Service and
departmental prescripts/ policies and other documents, remain abreast with the
procedures and process that apply in the office of the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Gambu Tel No: (033) 382 8041
NOTE : NB: All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the department. People with Disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 17/199 : DRIVER/MESSENGER: RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DRIVER/MNGR -REC MAN 15/MAY 2026
Business Unit: Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must have Grade 12 Certificate plus a Code B driver’s license –
light motor vehicles. Applicants must have a minimum of 1 year of driving
experience. PDP will be an added advantage. Skills, Training, and
Competencies: The successful candidate must have: Knowledge and
understanding of the regulatory framework for Public Service, e.g. Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, working knowledge of the
Departmental policies and circulars, Public Service, Motor vehicles. Self-
motivated and ability to work independently towards predetermined deadlines.
Skills: Communication (verbal and written), Good inter-personal relations,
Record maintenance, Driving. Values/Attributes: Reliability, Dependable,
Initiative, Punctuality, Honesty and integrity, Commitment. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Drive Light and medium motor vehicles to transport passengers and other
items (mail, documents, and assets transferred); Conduct routine maintenance
on the allocated vehicles and report defects in time; Complete all the required
and prescribed records and log books with regard to the vehicle and goods
handled; Provide Messenger and General Support Services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Magubane at 060 564 3063
NOTE : All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment equity
targets of the department, which is African male, coloured male, Indian male,
and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road Pietermaritzburg 3200. Applications can also be
submitted via the e-services system, please assess this site (eservices.gov.za).
FOR ATTENTION : Ms N Cele
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026
149
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. The Z83 must be accompanied
by a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only provisionally shortlisted applicants
will be contacted and requested to submit their supporting documents. The
Department will also conduct reference checks with HR of current /previous
employer(s) beside the references provided on CV. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Candidates will be subjected security screening and a
technical assessment. Under no circumstances will be faxed, emailed and late
applications be accepted. The Department discourages applications that are
registered and will not be held responsible for applications sent via registered
mail which are not collected from the post office. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to ensure that the application reaches the Department timeously.
Should you not hear from the Department within 3 months of the closing date,
please regard your application as unsuccessful. Regrettably, due to excessive
budget cuts, the department is not in a position to meet any travel and
subsistence costs relating to recruitment processes, or relocation and
resettlement costs for successful candidates. Preferences: Females and
people with disabilities who meet the requirements.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/200 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
KZNPT 26/11
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF Level 7 Degree in Quantity Surveying, Civil Engineering, and Project
Management in the built environment. SMS Pre-entry Certificate, training in
cost benefit analysis model building. 5 years middle / senior managerial
experience in a relevant infrastructure environment. SMS Pre-Entry Certificate
prior to employment - please access this website for more information
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme. Valid
Driver’s license. People with disabilities without valid driver’s licenses will be
assisted by the department to meet work related travel obligations. Skills,
Knowledge and Competencies: Extensive working knowledge of applicable
national and provincial policies and legislation is required: Advanced Project
Management. Contract Management. Financial Management. Personnel
Management. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Administrative
Procedure. Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA). Division of Revenue
Act (DoRA). Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA). Broad
Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE). Construction Industry
Development Board Act (CIDB). Treasury Regulations. Provincial Growth and
Development Strategy (PGDS). Provincial Spatial and Economic Development
(PSEDS). Provincial Procurement Act and regulations. Public Finance
Management Act – Best Practices. National Treasury Guideline documents.
South Africa’s Fiscal and Monetary Policy. Provincial policy priorities. Budget
formulation. Legislation applicable to allocated departments. Code of conduct.
Political and socio-economic environment surrounding. allocated departments.
Labour Relations Act. Employment Equity Act. Organising. Planning.
Facilitation and presentation. Problem solving. Research. Analytical
Diplomacy. Computer literacy. Time management. Conflict management.
Decision making. Inter-personal relations. Verbal and written communication.
Financial management. Human Resource Management. Project Planning and
Management. Policy analysis and development. Strategic management.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and manage the Provincial Infrastructure portfolio. Compile the
Estimate of Capital Expenditure. Monitor, Evaluate and Report on Provincial
Infrastructure Programmes. Support to the internal and external stakeholders.
Manage the implementation of policies. Manage Resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G Kanyika Tel No: (033) 897 4426
150
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/201 : PROVINCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE SPECIALIST REF NO: KZNPT 26/12
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, all-inclusive package
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year NQF Level 7 Degree in n Quantity Surveying, Civil Engineering, and
Project Management in the built environment. 3-5 years junior management
experience in a relevant infrastructure environment. Valid Driver’s license.
People with disabilities without valid driver’s licenses will be assisted by the
department to meet work related travel obligations. Skills, Knowledge and
Competencies: Extensive working knowledge of applicable national and
provincial policies and legislation is required: Advanced Project Management.
Contract Management. Financial Management. Administrative Procedures.
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Municipal Finance Management Act
(MFMA). Division of Revenue Act. Preferential Procurement Policy Framework
Act (PPPFA). Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE).
Construction Industry Development Board Act (CIDB). Treasury Regulations.
Provincial Growth and Development Strategy (PGDS). Provincial Spatial and
Economic Development (PSEDS). Provincial Procurement Act and regulations.
Public Finance Management Act – Best Practices. National Treasury Guideline
documents. South Africa’s Fiscal and Monetary Policy. Provincial policy
priorities. Budget formulation. Legislation applicable to allocated departments.
Political and socio-economic environment surrounding allocated departments.
Organising. Planning. Facilitation and presentation. Problem solving.
Research. Analytical. Computer literacy. Time management. Conflict
management. Decision making. Inter-personal relations. Verbal and written
communication. Financial management. Project Planning and Management.
Policy analysis and development. Self-disciplined and able to work under
pressure with minimum supervision.
DUTIES : Analyse infrastructural needs in provincial departments. Develop policy options
for infrastructure development in the provincial departments. Co-ordinate
infrastructure planning in provincial departments. Monitor, evaluate and report
on provincial departments infrastructure progress. Maintain provincial
departments infrastructure database.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G Kanyika Tel No: (033) 897 4426
POST 17/202 : PPP PROJECT CO-ORDINATOR REF NO: KZNPT 26/18
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year NQF Level 7 qualification in Economics / Finance. A minimum of 3-
years’ experience in Financial Modelling, Financial Analysis and Project
Finance in a financial sector. A valid driver’s license and in the case of persons
with disabilities who are unable to personally drive, the ability to meet work
related travel commitments. Skills, Knowledge and Competencies: Working
knowledge of the following Acts, prescripts, regulations, practice notes and
procedures. Extensive working knowledge of public sector, public entities and
including local government sphere. Extensive knowledge of project finance.
Extensive knowledge of accounting and payroll systems. Extensive knowledge
of risk management. Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996. Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations and PPP manuals/guidelines.
Municipal Finance Management Act. Municipal Structures Act. KwaZulu-Natal
Internal Audit Act. KwaZulu-Natal Procurement Act. and Regulations. KwaZulu-
Natal Direct Charges Act. Income Tax Act. Preferential Procurement Policy and
BBB-EE Act. Banking Act. Provincial Borrowing Powers Act. Division of
Revenue Act. Adjustments Appropriation Act. Public Service Act & Public
Service Regulations. Labour Relations Act. Employment Equity Act.
Organising. Planning. Facilitation and presentation. Problem solving.
Diplomacy. Research. Analytical. Time management. Conflict management.
Decision making. Inter-personal relations. Verbal and written communication.
Financial management. Project Planning and Management. Legal
administration. Technical. Self-disciplined and able to work under pressure with
minimum supervision. Management. Policy analysis and development.
Strategic management and planning. Computer skills: Spreadsheets (MS
Excel), word processing (MS Word), power point (MS Office), internet and
intranet.
151
DUTIES : Provide PPP transversal support services to the Departments, Municipalities
and Public Entities. Facilitate the procurement of PPP projects by the
Department, Municipal and Public Entities. Facilitate the implementation of
PPP project by the Department, Municipal and Public Entities. Monitor and
evaluate on PPP closed projects by Departments, Municipalities and Public
Entities. Facilitate the commissioning of case studies on closed PPP projects.
Provide advice, guidance and input to policy and on all transversal PPP
projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G Kanyika Tel No: (033) 897 4426
POST 17/203 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE AND SPATIAL PLANNING
REF NO. KZNPT 26/22
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year NQF Level 7 qualification with Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
as a major. A minimum of 3-years in a GIS environment within infrastructure
planning and delivery. A valid driver’s license. People with disabilities without
valid Driver’s license will be assisted by the department to meet work related
travel obligations. Skills, Knowledge and Competencies: Extensive working
knowledge of applicable national and provincial policies and legislation is
required: Advanced Project Management. Contract Management. Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Municipal Finance Management Act
(MFMA). Division of Revenue Act. Construction Industry Development Board
Act (CIDB). Treasury Regulations. Provincial Growth and Development
Strategy (PGDS). Provincial Spatial and Economic Development (PSEDS).
Public Finance Management Act – Best Practices. Provincial policy priorities.
Political and socio-economic environment surrounding allocated departments.
Organising. Planning. Facilitation and presentation. Problem solving.
Research. Analytical. Computer literacy. Time management. Inter-personal
relations. Verbal and written communication. Financial management. Project
Planning and Management. Policy analysis and development. Self-disciplined
and able to work under pressure with minimum supervision.
DUTIES : Support, Monitor and Oversee Infrastructure Delivery Management
Improvement. Support, monitor and oversee Infrastructure Portfolio Planning.
Conduct Infrastructure Spatial Planning. Support, monitor and oversee
Infrastructure Project/Programme Review. Oversee and Monitor Operations,
Maintenance and Services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G Kanyika Tel No: (033) 897 4426
152
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENT AND TOURISM
The Department of Economic Development, Environment and Tourism is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. The intention is to promote representativity in the Public Service through the
filling of these posts. Persons whose appointment will promote representativity (specifically Persons
with Disabilities and Women in line with the Employment Equity Act No. 55 of 1998), will receive
preference. An indication by candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications.
Should there be no suitable candidates from the represented groups who can be recruited, the
candidates from the unrepresented groups can be considered.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants should apply through the following website
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za. Applications can also be hand delivered
to: Evridiki Towers, Registry Office No. B1-73, 19 Biccard Street, Polokwane,
0700 OR posted to Head of Department: Department of Economic
Development, Environment and Tourism, Private Bag X9484, Polokwane,
0700.
Applications on e-Recruitment system: Applicants should apply through the
following website: https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026 @ 16h30
NOTE : All costs associated with an application will be the responsibility of the
applicant. The application on e-Recruitment system must be accompanied by
a recent comprehensive CV. The applicant’s failure to attach a recent
comprehensive CV will result in the application not being
considered/disqualified. Applicants using the e-Recruitment System must
ensure that all fields are completed correctly as similarly prescribed in the Z83
application form as specified by the Directive on Human Resource
Management and Development for Public Service Professionalisation Volume
1, paragraph1.30. The applicant confirms and comes to an agreement that all
the information presented in his/her electronic application is true, correct and
legally binding as soon as he/she submits the application. The confirmation of
the application is deemed to be the signature of the Z83. Hand delivered or
posted applications (hard copies): Applicants who choose to apply using the
hand delivery method (hard copies), must submit their applications on the new
Z83 forms as issued by the Minister for Public Service and Administration in
line with Regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016). The new Z83
application form can be obtained from all Government Departments or can be
downloaded from www.dpsa.gov.za. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents but must submit the fully
completed new Z83 and a recent comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. The
applicant’s failure to fully complete the Z83 and attach a recent comprehensive
CV will result in the application not being considered / disqualified. NB** No
faxed or emailed applications will be considered. The new Z83 form must be
fully completed, signed and initialled by the applicant. Please use your
signature or valid e-signature and not your name written in block/typed print. A
Z83 not signed will be deemed a regret. The comprehensive completion of the
Z83 form by the applicant must assist the selection committee toward the
suitability assessment of the candidate, based on the information provided on
the form. The following must be considered in relation to the completion of the
Z83 by applicants: Part A: All fields must be completed in full. Part B: All fields
must be completed in full except when: Passport number: South African
applicants need not provide passport numbers. An applicant has responded
“no” to the question “Are you conducting business with the State or are you a
Director of a Public or Private company conducting business with the State? If
yes, (provide the details)”, then it is acceptable for an applicant to indicate not
applicable or leave blank to the question, “In the event that you are employed
in the Public Service, will you immediately relinquish such business interests?”
“If your professional or occupation requires official registration, provide date
and particulars of registration.” – Some applicants may not be in possession of
such therefore it is acceptable if left blank or if not applicable is indicated. Part
C: All fields must be completed. Part D: All fields must be completed. Part E, F
& G: Noting that there is limited space provided applicants often indicate ‘refer
to Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see attached’, this is acceptable as long as the CV
has been attached and provides the required information. If the information is
not provided in the CV, the applicant may be disqualified. It must be noted that
a CV is an extension of the application of employment Z83, and applicants are
153
accountable for the information that is provided therein. The questions related
to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part F must be answered.
Declaration must be completed and signed (Please use your signature or valid
e-signature and not your name written in block/typed print. A Z83 not signed
will be deemed a regret). The position and the reference number of the post for
which you are applying for, as stated in the advert, must be quoted in the
spaces provided on the new Z83 form. Applicants with foreign qualifications
remain responsible for ensuring that their qualifications are evaluated by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) and therefore must submit the
copies of certificates and evidence of evaluation by SAQA for foreign
qualification if they are invited to attend interviews. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Personal suitability checks shall be conducted in line
with Public Service Regulation 57(1)(c). The candidates shortlisted for posts
on salary level 9 to 14, will be required to disclose his/her financial interests in
accordance with the applicable prescripts. Successful incumbents will be
expected to sign a performance agreement within one month after assumption
of duty. For Management Echelon posts: In order to ensure that potential SMS
members have a background on processes and procedures linked to the SMS,
a further requirement for appointment at SMS level will be the successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government with effect from 01 April 2020. This is a
Public Service specific training programme which will be applicable for
appointments at SMS post. The link is as follows: www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme. The selection panel will, following the
interview recommend a candidate to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tools. Correspondence will, due to the large number
of applications envisaged to be received, be limited to short-listed candidates
only, and the applicant should accept that his/her application has been
unsuccessful should he/she not have heard from the Department within 4
months of the closing date. However, should there be any dissatisfaction,
applicants are hereby advised to request reasons from the Department for any
administrative actions which has adversely affected them, within 4 months, in
terms of section 5, sub-section 1 and 2 of the Promotion of Administrative
Justice Act 3 of 2000. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment to the posts advertised. The employment decision shall be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. Applicants who
have retired from the Public Service with a specific determination that they
cannot be reappointed or have been declared medically unfit will not be
considered. The Department shall not carry any related costs (transport,
accommodation or meals) for invited candidates attending interviews.
Applicants are not required to submit certified copies of educational
qualifications, academic record, identity document and a valid driver’s licence
(where required) with their application. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies on / or before the day of the interview. It is
the sole responsibility of an applicant to ensure that their applications reach the
Department of Economic Development, Environment and Tourism before the
stipulated closing date. The contents of the advertised post will also be posted
on the following websites www.limpopo.gov.za / www.ledet.gov.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za and social media platforms.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/204 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: BUSINESS REGULATIONS & GOVERNANCE REF NO:
C5/26/1
Directorate: Business Regulations & Governance
SALARY : R1 494 900 – R1 787 328 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (70% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs
154
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) in Business Administration / Public
Administration / Economics / Business Studies / Management Studies / Law /
Policing / Business Management / Commerce / Commercial Law or equivalent
as recognized by SAQA. A post graduate qualification will be an added
advantage. Five (5) years of experience at senior managerial level. Valid
driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Competencies:
Strategic capability and leadership. Programme and project management.
Change management. Budget and financial management. People
management and empowerment. Knowledge management. Problem solving
and analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Service delivery
innovation. Delegation and leading. Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of the
legislative framework governing Business Regulations and Consumer Affairs.
Knowledge of policy and legislation development and analysis. Communication
and negotiation skills. Policy formulation. Conflict management skills.
Administrative skills. Report writing skills. Computer literacy. Planning and
coordination skills.
DUTIES : Management of the Business Regulation and Governance Chief Directorate.
Implementation of the Limpopo Business Registration Act (LIBRA). Provide
leadership on the promotion of a healthy and fair-trading environment within
the Liquor Industry. Management of all Business Registration centres in the
province. Implementation of the Limpopo Liquor Act. Implementation of the
Consumer Protection Act and the Limpopo Consumer Protection Act. Promote
and co-ordinate the provision of consumer protection services. Develop and
facilitate policy development and strategic and business plans. Provide co-
ordination, integration and interaction with national and local partners and
stakeholders. Provide support services and facilitate compliance by the Liquor
Board, Liquor Appeal Tribunal, Provincial Liquor Policy Council, Gambling
Board and Consumer Court to relevant legislations. Manage and utilize
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with the relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/205 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: C5/26/2
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R1 494 900 – R1 787 328 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (70% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) in Business Administration / Public
Management / Public Administration / Human Resource Management / Law /
Security Management / Labour Relations Management or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years of experience at senior managerial level.
Valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Competencies:
Strategic capability and leadership. Programme and project management.
Change management. Budget and financial management. People
management and empowerment. Knowledge management. Problem solving
and analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Service delivery
innovation. Skills and Knowledge: Extensive understanding and in-depth
knowledge of the legislative framework governing Public Service. Proven
knowledge and experience in the corporate service environment. Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : To provide strategic leadership and coordination of Corporate Support
Services. Provide high level strategic leadership and direction on policies and
programmes and implementation within the Chief Directorate. Manage and
coordinate the provision of human resources management services (HRM,
HRD, PMDS and Employee Relations). Manage and coordinate the provision
of employee health and wellness services. Manage and coordinate the
provision of security and facility management services. Manage and coordinate
the provision of legal administration services. Manage and coordinate the
provision of information technology services. Manage and utilize resources
(financial, human and physical) in accordance with the relevant directives and
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
155
POST 17/206 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT & DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: C5/26/3
Directorate: Human Resource Management & Development
SALARY : R1 266 714 – R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (70% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) in Human Resource Management /
Human Resource Development / LR / LLB / OM / Public Management / Public
Administration or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years of
experience at middle/senior managerial level in Human Resource
Management. Valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability).
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Programme and project
management. Change management. Financial management. People
management and empowerment. Knowledge management. Problem solving
and analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Service delivery
innovation. Skills and Knowledge: Extensive knowledge and understanding of
the legislative framework governing the Public Service i.e Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulation, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour
Relations Act, etc. Sound and in-depth experience and knowledge of relevant
prescripts, and application of human resource practices and procedures. Ability
to work in a highly pressured environment and driven by a sense of urgency to
meet deadlines. Communication skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate development and implementation of HRM&D policies,
strategic and operational plans. To manage and facilitate the provision of
Human Resource Planning and Recruitment Services. Manage and ensure the
implementation of Conditions of Services. Manage and ensure the
implementation of Skills Development and Bursaries. Manage the provision of
Organisational Development Services. Manage and coordinate the
implementation of Performance Management System. Manage and utilize
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with the relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/207 : DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATION SERVICES REF NO: C5/26/4
Directorate: Communication Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 – R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (70% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) in Communications / Digital Marketing
/ Journalism / Media Studies / Public Relations or a related media studies field
as recognized by SAQA. A post-graduate qualification with a marketing or
strategic communication focus is highly advantageous. Five (5) years of
experience at middle/senior managerial level in Communications, with
significant emphasis on Journalism / Media Studies / Public Relations / Digital
Marketing and strategy field. Proven success in high-pressure scenarios, such
as managing national-level media crises, digital reputation challenges, or large-
scale online campaigns. Public sector or government communication
experience is highly desirable. Valid driver’s license (with exception of person
with disability). Competencies: Strong interpersonal skills. Strategic capability
and leadership. Resilience under pressure. Strategic mindset. Cultural
sensitivity. Multilingual proficiency. Programme and project management.
Change management. Budget and financial management. People
management and empowerment. Knowledge management. Problem solving
and analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Service delivery
innovation. Commitment to ethical practices. Analytical thinking. Skills and
Knowledge: Solid grounding of journalistic principles, ethical sourcing and
investigative storytelling adapted for all formats. Deep knowledge of evolving
media landscapes, audience behaviour in related spaces and convergence of
156
traditional/digital platforms. Expertise in reputation management, stakeholder
mapping and PR tactics. Proficiency in visual storytelling tools and software for
creating digital assets (infographics, videos, branded graphics). Demonstrated
leadership in building online communities, managing platforms for
engagement/growth and handling real-time interactions. Exceptional
copywriting, editing and persuasive content creation for various channels
(social posts, blogs, speeches) under high deadlines. Strong proficiency in
digital marketing strategies, including SEO/SEM fundamentals, content
marketing, paid advertising (Google Ads, social ads), email marketing, social
media advertising, analytics (Google analytics, social insights) and data-driven
campaign optimization.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate development of policies, strategic and operational plans.
Develop and implement integrated communication strategies, including
SEO/SEM, content marketing, paid campaigns and multi-channel initiatives
aligned with organizational goals. Serves as primary spokesperson, manage
press releases and lead rapid-response crisis communications, including
digital monitoring, online reputation management and mitigation of viral
misinformation or social media backlash. Build relationships with stakeholders
and oversee PR efforts, incorporate targeted digital marketing to enhance
brand reputation and community outreach. Supervise high-quality content
production across formats, with emphasis on digital-first content (engaging
social posts, videos, infographics) optimized for algorithms and audience
segmentation. Drive the organization’s digital presence through strategic social
media management, audience growth via organic and paid tactics, real-time
engagement, trend monitoring, analytics-driven campaigns and integration of
emerging digital tools (AI for sentiment analysis). Lead communications team,
providing mentorship in digital marketing best practices, content strategy,
analytics and ethical communications. Manage budgets, advertising spend,
graphic design software and external digital/PR agencies. Track KPIs across
digital channels (engagement rates, reach, conversion metrics), analyse
media/digital coverage and report insights to leadership for continuous
optimization. Manage and utilize resources (financial, human and physical) in
accordance with the relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/208 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRADE & INVESTMENT PROMOTION REF NO:
C5/26/5
Directorate: Trade & Investment Promotion
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R1 101 468 – R1 297 476 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Economics / Business Management / Development
Economics / Marketing / Business Studies / Entrepreneurship or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within Trade Development
and investment Promotion of which three (3) years must be at supervisory level
(ASD level). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability.
Skills and Knowledge: Good knowledge and understanding of legislative
framework governing public service. Sound and in-debt knowledge and
experience of relevant macro and micro economic policies. Investment
appraisal and risk management. Research and research methodology.
Business development and marketing. Corporate governance management
and leadership. Strategic and analytical thinking skills. Financial and human
resource management skills. Computer literacy. People management and
empowerment skills. Negotiating skills. Report writing skills. Presentation skills.
Communication skills. Interpersonal skills. Problem solving and decision-
making skills.
DUTIES : Ensure development and review of trade development and promotion
strategies and plans. Facilitate the implementation of trade development and
promotion programs. Research on new markets to be targeted and sustain the
157
existing markets. Identify and profile new investment opportunities in key
growth Facilitate investment and business setup, retention and aftercare
support. Ensure efficient operation and functionality of InvestSA Limpopo One
Stop Shop. Facilitate access to incentives aimed at trade development and
investment attraction. Research on new markets to be targeted and sustain the
existing markets. Collaborate with key stakeholders in utilizing strategic
partnerships (Multi- and Bilateral agreements) for market access of our
provincial produce. Ensure optimal participation at trade promotion platforms.
Liaise with a wide spectrum of stakeholders on policy issues related to trade
development and promotion of provincial goods and services. Establish and
maintain appropriate internal controls within the unit. Ensure the managing and
monitoring of customized incentive packages. Enhance the uptake of national
trade promotion incentives by provincial enterprises. Manage and facilitate
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/209 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LIQUOR AFFAIRS & BUSINESS REGULATIONS REF
NO: C5/26/6
Directorate: Liquor Affairs & Business Regulations
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R1 101 468 – R1 297 476 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Commerce / Business Management / Economics /
Public Administration / Commercial Law / Law or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within the Business Environment field of
which three (3) years must be at supervisory level (ASD level). Valid driver’s
license (with exception of persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge:
Knowledge of relevant legislation. Knowledge of liquor affairs and business
registration. Excellent leadership skills. Communication skills. Interpersonal
skills. Strong analytical and problem-solving skills. Ability to work in a fast-
paced environment and meet deadlines. Computer literacy. Report writing
skills. Managerial skills. Planning and organising skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for managing and supporting all administrative functions related
to liquor licensing, including coordination with Local Liquor Authorities and the
Liquor Board. Oversee the maintenance of the provincial liquor outlet
database. Ensure compliance through quality assurance of applications and
facilitate responsible drinking initiatives. Handle disputes and legal processes
related to liquor license applications. Implement and administer liquor affairs
task and business registration policies and operational plans. Manage and
facilitate resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/210 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT REF NO: C5/26/7
Directorate: Economic Empowerment
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R1 101 468 – R1 297 476 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Commerce / Business Studies / Economics /
Business Management or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’
experience with Business Communities, Disadvantaged Groups and
Development Environment of which three (3) years must be at supervisory
level (ASD level). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of national and provincial policy
158
frameworks, local government systems, business and industries driving the
Limpopo economy. In-dept knowledge of Local Economic Development,
Economic Development Trends and Public Administration. Planning and
organising. Problem solving and decision making. People management and
empowerment. Team leadership. Project management. Coordination. Client
orientation and customer focus. Diversity management. Communication
(verbal and written).
DUTIES : Policy development and implementation of strategic and operational plans.
Develop and support the establishment of enterprises across all sectors,
including target groups. Develop and implement policies and programmes to
promote economic empowerment. Facilitate stakeholder’s engagement with
key stakeholders including businesses, government agencies, private/civil
sector to foster collaboration and support for economic empowerment
initiatives. Develop and promote the implementation of B-BBEE intervention
programmes. Creating an enable environment for the implementation of B-
BBEE. Provision of non-financial and financial support to enterprises.
Development of strategies that identify economic opportunities suitable for the
target groups in sectors identified. Develop and implement capacity and skills
development programmes and mentorship programmes through shared
partnerships. Facilitate in conjunction with stakeholders the improvement of
enterprises through product development and competitiveness enhancement
to assist in expansion and market access. Develop strategies targeting
vulnerable groups that enable them to access resources for participation in
identified sub-sector. Manage and utilize resources (financial, human and
physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/211 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TOURISM PLANNING & REGULATIONS REF NO:
C5/26/8
Directorate: Tourism Planning & Regulations
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R1 101 468 – R1 297 476 per annum (Level 12), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Tourism / Tourism Management / Travel and Tourism
/ Public Management / Tourism related field or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within Tourism Sector / Public Service /
Research and Planning fields of which three (3) years must be at supervisory
level (ASD level). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Sound and in-debt
knowledge and experience in planning and development strategies. Strategic
and analytical thinking skills. Excellent communication and presentation skills.
Problem solving and analysis skills. Financial management skills. Conflict
management skills. Planning and coordination skills. Human resource
management skills. Programme and project management skills. Policy
formulation skills. Risk management skills. Performance management and
measurement skills. Computer literacy. Facilitation expertise and stakeholder
management. Ability and experience to successfully manage special projects.
DUTIES : Ensure development of sectoral strategies and plans. Facilitate implementation
of programmes to support growth of the tourism sector. Manage projects and
work structures comprising public and private sector stakeholders. Contribute
to policy development, sector strategic planning and business planning.
Implement, oversee and assess the impact of the Tourism Growth Strategy.
Provide support in the development of local economic development
programmes in municipalities. Provide economic intelligence to support
planning and decision making in the tourism sector. Manage the collection,
organization and analysis of economic and development data to support
growth of the tourism sector. Design, conduct and manage research aligned
with tourism development imperatives in the province. Develop and implement
tourism sector research agenda. Conduct impact assessment of activities that
contribute to economic growth. Provide LED support to municipalities. Manage
159
and facilitate resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with
relevant directives and legislation. Manage relations with stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/212 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE REF NO: C5/26/9
Directorate: Human Resources Management & Development
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Human Resource Management / Public
Administration or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’
experience within the Conditions of Service field of which three (3) years must
be at supervisory level (ASD level). Proven successful completion of PERSAL
Administration. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability).
Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of the relevant acts, directives and
determinations, policies, regulations and resolutions. Facilitation and
presentation. Management and leadership. Analytical thinking. Budget and
financial management. Policy development. Conflict management and problem
solving. Interpersonal relations. Planning and organization. Communication
skills. Strategic thinking. Adaptability. Administrative. Delegation and leading.
Numeracy and literacy skills. Computer literacy. Language skills. Strategic
planning (incl. operational planning). Training. HR matters. Labour relations.
Technical procedures.
DUTIES : Manage leave utilization and termination of services. Manage the process of
administering service benefits. Manage and utilize resources (financial, human
and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/213 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FLEET MANAGEMENT REF NO: C5/26/10
Directorate: Supply Chain and Assets Management
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Logistical Management / Transport Management /
Supply Chain Management as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience
within Fleet Management field of which three (3) years must be at supervisory
level (ASD level). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of the relevant acts, directives
and resolutions. Fleet management. Financial management. Planning and
organizing. Labour relations. Managerial skills. Computer literacy.
Communication skills. Analytical thinking. Presentation skills. Policy
formulation. Negotiation skills. Conflict management and problem solving.
Strategic thinking. Administrative. Project planning and design.
DUTIES : Administer the acquisition of government owned vehicles. Administer the
operation of government owned vehicles and related services. Administer
subsidized motor vehicles. Administer inspections and audit services of
government owned vehicles. Manage disposal of government owned vehicles.
Manage and utilise resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance
with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/214 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: C5/26/11
Directorate: Risk & Integrity Management
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
160
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Risk Management / Internal Auditing / Auditing /
Accounting or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience
within Risk Management of which three (3) years must be at supervisory level
(ASD level). Experience in Business Continuity Management will be an added
advantage. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability).
Skills and Knowledge: Risk assessments. Maintenance of risk registers. Risk
reporting. Firs governance (risk policy, risk strategy and risk appetite &
tolerance). Risk awarenesses or training. Knowledge of the Regulatory
Framework (PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act and
Regulations). A thorough understanding of Risk Management and Business
Continuity Management. Computer literacy in MS Packages (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint) and Risk Management Systems (BarnOwl, Cura, etc.).
Knowledge in financial and human recourse matters. Planning and organising
skills. Project management skills. Research and analytical skills.
Communication skills. Problem solving skills. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Develop and ensure the implementation of Risk Management Policy, Risk
Management Strategy and Business Continuity Management. Facilitate the
assessment processes and the maintenance of risk registers. Monitor the
implementation of the action plans, assess action plans and the accompanying
portfolio of evidence. Develop a risk awareness culture through risk awareness
sessions. Check adherence to the Risk and BCM policies and strategies. Risk
training and awareness. Educate and train risk staff, risk champions and all
employees in the department on risk management principles, trends, best
practices, etc. Provide support to risk champions at least every quarter, in
updating Branch risk registers and assessing the management of risks. Create
awareness in the department on risk management (newsflash/classroom
training). Facilitate the Business Continuity Management and disaster
management initiatives of the department. Provide guidance to Branches on
Business Continuity Management. Quality assure and ensure updated
Business Continuity Plans are signed off by business. Manage and facilitate
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/215 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE RECRUITMENT & PLANNING
REF NO: C5/26/12
Directorate: Human Resource Management & Development: Human Resource
Recruitment & Planning
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in the Human Resource Management or equivalent, as
recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within the Human Resource
Management field of which three (3) years must be at supervisory level (ASD
level). Three (3) years extensive experience in the field of Human Resource
Recruitment and Planning field coupled with a deep understanding of
transactional HR environment. Proven successful completion of PERSAL
Administration. Proven PERSAL Controller training and working experience will
be an added advantage. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability) and be willing to travel. Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of Human
Resource Management policies, acts, regulations and systems. Broad
knowledge of legislation regulating Human Resource Management (HRM) and
regulatory frameworks of the Public Service. Management skills.
Communication (verbal and written) and negotiation skills. interpersonal skills.
Analytical thinking. Report writing skills. Policy formulation. Conflict
management and problem-solving skills. Financial management skills.
Strategic thinking. Planning and organization skills. Delegation and leading.
Computer literacy (MS Excel, MS Word, MS PowerPoint). Performance
161
management. Project management. Recruitment and selection. The code of
remuneration. All labour legislation. Code of good conduct in the Public
Service. Departmental policies and procedures. Batho Pele principles. Ability
to interact with stakeholders.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of recruitment and selection services, Human Resource
Planning, HR Information Management and Policy Development. Implement
and maintain policy framework for Human Resources Operations practices in
the department. Manage personnel salaries administration system (PERSAL)
for the department. Ensure balance and holistic approach/effort in managing
an HR management function. Ensure effective and operational efficiency of
resource management including HR, finance and assets of the component.
Proactively building sound relationships with key stakeholders at all levels.
Manage LEDET establishment and database. Ensure compliance with the
legislative and Public Service regulatory framework. Management and
supervision of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/216 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RECORDS & KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT REF
NO: C5/26/13
Directorate: Security & Facility Management: Records & Knowledge
Management
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Records Management / Archival Studies / Information
Science / Information Management / Library or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within the Records and Knowledge
Management field of which three (3) years must be at supervisory level (ASD
level). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability). Skills
and Knowledge: Knowledge of Basic Archives and Records Management.
Strategic capability and leadership. Financial management. People
management and empowerment. Problem-solving and decision-making skills.
Client orientation and customer focus. Motivational skills. Communication skills
(verbal & written). Service delivery and innovation skills. Computer literacy.
Conflict management skills.
DUTIES : Oversee Records and Knowledge Management in the department. Manage the
development and implementation of file plans, policies and procedure
manuals. Manage custody, receival and disposal of records. Manage the
implementation of Records Management, PAIA / POPIA, PAJA and Knowledge
Management. Conduct training/workshops on Records and Knowledge
Management. Manage and facilitate resources (financial, human and physical)
in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/217 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SHERQ, HIV, STI, TB & COIDA REF NO: C5/26/14
Directorate: Employee Relations & Wellness
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Occupational Health and Safety / Nursing Science /
Social Work / Environmental Health or equivalent as recognized by SAQA.
Successful registration with South African Nursing Council (SANC) or South
African Council for Social Service professions (SACSSP) or relevant statutory
body. Five (5) years’ experience within the Employee Health and Wellness field
of which three (3) years must be at supervisory level (ASD level). Valid driver’s
license (with exception of persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge:
Knowledge of the relevant HIV, STI and TB (HST) related legislations, policies
162
and regulations. National Strategic Plan for RSA on HIV & STIs and TB and
Provincial HST Implementation Plan. Integrated Employee Health & Wellness
framework. Knowledge of OHS and COID legislation, policies and regulations.
Code of ethics. Batho Pele Principles. Departmental policies and procedures.
Knowledge of research and evaluation processes and procedures. Financial
management. Communication skills (verbal and written). Conflict management
and problem-solving skills. Counselling skills. Listening skills. Facilitation skills.
Coordination and monitoring skills. Planning and organizing skills. Report
writing skills. Supervisory skills.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation of Safety, Health, Environment, Risk and Quality
(SHERQ) and Injury of Duty (COIDA) prescripts. Manage the implementation
of HIV, STI and TB programmes in the department. Conduct health risk
assessment and implement mitigation strategies. Implement Cheka Impilo
programme. Develop implementation plan for management of occupational
injuries and diseases. Develop and market HST and SHERQ policies in the
department. Participate in the Provincial AIDS Council and Technical
Committees. Liaise with the Compensation Commissioner in the management
of Injuries on Duty cases. Management of all the resources in the Sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/218 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE WELLNESS REF NO: C5/26/15
Directorate: Employee Relations & Wellness
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Social Work / Social Sciences / Psychology or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Successful registration with South African
Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) or the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA). Five (5) years’ experience within the
Employee Health and Wellness field of which three (3) years must be at
supervisory level (ASD level). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons
with disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of the relevant Employee
Health & Wellness related legislations, policies and regulations. National
Strategic Plan for RSA on HIV and AIDS & STIs and Integrated Employee
Health & Wellness Framework. Knowledge of OHS and COID legislation,
policies and regulations. Knowledge of research and evaluation processes and
procedures. Code of Ethics and Batho Pele Principles. Departmental policies
and procedures. Communication skills (verbal and written). Financial
management. Counselling skills. Listening and negotiation skills. Decision
making skills. Planning and organizing skills. Computer literacy. Change and
diversity management. Conflict management and problem solving.
Motivational skills. Report writing skills. Management and supervisory skills.
Service delivery and innovation. Strategic capability and leadership.
Interpersonal skills. Analytical thinking. Coordination and monitoring. Policy
formulation skills.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation and promotion of Employee Health and Wellness
Programmes and interventions (physical wellness programme, counselling and
therapeutic services). Manage the implementation of Safety, Health,
Environment, Risk and Quality (SHERQ) and Injury on Duty (COIDS)
prescripts. Manage the implementation of TB, HIV & AIDS, STI prevention
programmes and Cheka Impilo programme. Provide counselling services and
manage chronic illnesses as outlined in the pillars of Employee Health and
Wellness Framework from DPSA. Coordinate and implement Health and
Productivity programmes in the department. Oversee EAP and diversity
management initiatives. Develop implementation plan for management of
occupational injuries and diseases. Market OHS and Health and Wellness
policies in the department. Facilitate the implementation of Work-life balance
programmes. Management and facilitation of resources (financial, human and
physical) in accordance with the relevant directives and legislation. Liaise with
internal and external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
163
POST 17/219 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO: C5/26/16
Directorate: Supply Chain & Assets Management
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package). The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of packages),
State contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the
individuals’ personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Financial Management / Supply Chain Management
/ Purchasing / Logistics / Finance / Accounting / Economics / Internal Audit or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience within Supply
Chain Management field of which three (3) years must be at supervisory level
(ASD level). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability).
Skills and Knowledge: Sound and in-debt knowledge of relevant prescripts.
Application of human resources as well as understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service such as: Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), SCM policies and procedures, Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act (PPPFA), Preferential Procurement Regulations, Treasury
Regulations (TR), Administrative Justice Act, Promotion of Access of
Information Act, The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. People
management skills. Time management skills. Communication skills (verbal &
written). Conflict management and negotiation skills. Report writing skills.
Planning and organizing skills. Problem solving skills. Policy analysing and
interpretation skills. Computer literacy. Good governance and Batho Pele
Principles. Team leadership skills.
DUTIES : Manage, design and develop acquisition management policies, processes and
procedures. Compile operational/supply chain acquisition management plan
and obtain approval. Manage the execution of the acquisition management
plan. Monitor and review the acquisition management activities. Setting up the
id Evaluation, Bid Adjudication and Bid Specification Committees and
rendering a secretariat service to the relevant committees. Compilation of bid
documents and advertisements. Publishing of bid documents. Receipt (closing
and opening) of bid documents. Processing of bid documents. Compile terms
of reference to invite service providers for an expression of interest. Receive,
evaluate and adjudicate expression of interest. Compile a database of
approved suppliers. Manage the sourcing of bids from the database according
to the threshold values determined by the Treasury. Maintenance of discipline.
Management of performance and development. Undertake Human Resource
and other related administrative function. Establish implement and maintain
efficient and effective communication arrangement. Develop and manage the
operation plan of the sub-directorate and report on progress as required.
Develop, implement and maintain processes to ensure proper control of work.
Compile and submit all required administrative reports. Service on transverse
task teams as required. Procurement and asset management for the sub
directorate. Plan and allocate work. Quality control of work delivered by
employees. Manage and facilitate resources (financial, human and physical) in
accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/220 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A REF NO: C5/26/17
Directorate: Environmental Compliance & Enforcement
SALARY : R636 978 – R728 646 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package),
(OSD). The remuneration package includes a basic (75% of packages), State
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary)
and a flexible portion which can be structured according to the individuals’
personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Nature Conservation / Environmental Management /
Environmental Science / Environmental Law / Natural Science or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) to five (5) years’ experience
investigation or enforcement of environmental crimes or crime or prosecution
or relevant of which three (3) years should be at a supervisory level.
Designated Environmental Management Inspector. Valid driver’s license. Skills
164
and Knowledge: Knowledge of environmental policies and related legislations,
international instruments, civil procedures, criminal procedures, constitutional
law and administrative law. Extensive knowledge of criminal justice system and
environmental crimes criminal docket management. Knowledge of natural
resource management specifically TOPS/CITES. Good legal drafting,
investigation and evidence gathering including covert gathering skills.
Demonstrated knowledge of wildlife investigations. Strategic and analytical
skills. Problem solving and negotiation skills. Information management.
Computer literacy. Report writing. Communication skills. Facilitation.
Organising and good interpersonal skills. Ability to gather and analyse
information. Ability to develop and apply policies. Conflict management and
problem solving. A service-orientated approach and the ability to work
efficiently and effectively under pressure. Ability to work independently and
withing a team. Management of staff.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate joint initiatives to strengthen the anti-poaching and anti-trafficking
capabilities in the Limpopo Province. Provincially co-ordinate the Integrated
Wildlife Zone (IWZ) (Rhino). Manage case dockets and provide criminal
investigation support for wildlife related crimes to ensure effective case
management, prosecution support and compliance with legal procedures.
Manage compliance monitoring and enforcement operations. Provide support
in relation to court appearances. Liaise with stakeholders. Attend National
working group, Provincial Wildlife Crime Forums (PBIF, Rural safety), IWZ
meetings and other relevant meetings. Provide strategic support to provincial
and national wildlife trafficking projects. Ensure the coordination of
enforcement and investigation operations to promote effective compliance and
law enforcement outcomes. Ensure the implementation and use of the eCAS
and CMOR Systems/Platforms and NISCWT. Compile all monthly and
quarterly reports for the Directorate (Green).
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/221 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A REF NO: C5/26/18 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Wildlife Resources Management
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R636 978 – R728 646 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane (X1 Post)
Waterberg District: Modimolle (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Nature Conservation / Environmental Science /
Natural Science / Biodiversity Management / Wildlife Management or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA. SAPS Firearm Competency Certificate
(Rifle) (compulsory). An Environmental Management Inspectorate
qualification, RHoDi DNA Sampling Course and Permitting Training Course will
be an added advantage. A minimum of six (6) years’ experience in Biodiversity
/ Conservation / Environmental field of which three (3) years must be in the
hunting and wildlife permitting and dehorning and taking of DNA samples of
rhino species field. Valid driver’s license. Skills and Knowledge: A thorough
knowledge in both the provincial and national environmental biodiversity
legislations, including CITES, biodiversity and other multi-lateral environmental
agreements. Knowledge of Environmental policies, Management of Damage
Causing Animals, Enforcement of Hunting regulatory frameworks, Promotion
of Access to Information Act and Promotion of Administrative Justice Act.
Computer literacy. Excellent communication (verbal and written) and report
writing skills are essential. Be able to work irregular hours and be able to travel
as and when required. Ability to work under pressure. Managerial skills.
Stakeholder engagement. People management. Planning and coordination
skills. Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Management of the hunting industry. Management of damage causing animals.
Management of the establishment of wildlife centres. Monitoring of game
hunts. Management of the game farming industry. Management of the game
capture operations and translocations. Collection of specimens for forensic
analysis. Implementation of the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. Management of the permit
processing systems. Manage and facilitate marking, registration, management
and issuing of permits for elephant ivory and rhino horns. Manage and facilitate
165
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/222 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A REF NO: C5/26/19
Directorate: Environmental Empowerment Services
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R636 978 – R728 646 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Environmental Management / Nature Conservation
or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience
in Environmental Management and Education field at a supervisory level. Valid
driver’s license. Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of the
Environmental Legislations. Knowledge of environmental education.
Knowledge of community development facilitation. Good human relations and
problem-solving skills. Good communication and writing skills. Ability to
interpret and apply policies. Managerial skills. Knowledge of planning and
organizing. Compiling reports. Computer literacy. Change and diversity
management skills. Good report writing skills.
DUTIES : Manage the environmental education and awareness staff in the district.
Develop and manage the implementation of environmental education
programs in schools and communities. Implement environmental awareness in
communities. Develop and implement career advisory programs in schools.
Develop and manage tree planting program in the district. Align the
environmental education and awareness programs with the environmental
sector priorities. Perform and manage administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/223 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LIQUOR AFFAIRS & BUSINESS REGULATIONS
REF NO: C5/26/20
Directorate: Liquor Affairs & Business Regulations
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R605 742 – R713 535 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Commerce / Business Management / Economics /
Public Administration / Commercial Law / Law or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Minimum of three (3) years’ experience in the Liquor and Business
Regulations field. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of the relevant legislation.
Excellent leadership and interpersonal skills. Communication skills. Strong
analytical and problem-solving skills. Ability to work in a fast-paced
environment and meet deadlines. Computer literacy. Planning and organizing
skills. Customer relations skills. Service delivery innovation skills.
DUTIES : Provide support in monitoring business registrations in accordance with the
Limpopo Business Registration Act to ensure compliance. Render secretariat
services to the Limpopo Local Liquor Authority and Limpopo Provincial Liquor
Board. Administer liquor licensing processes, including application handling,
liquor board adjudication, printing licenses and communicating the decision of
the board. Assist with compliance oversight, public education on liquor laws
and responsible drinking and trade. Track and report on the generation of
liquor-related revenue, including licensing fees, renewals and penalties, to
support financial oversight and planning. Conduct joint inspections in loco with
the Board and Tribunal. Coordinate liquor and business workshops and
education and awareness programmes. Manage and facilitate resources
(financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
166
POST 17/224 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT REF NO: C5/26/21
Directorate: Enterprise Development
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R605 742 – R713 535 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Local Economic Development / Development Studies
/ Business Management / Integrated Organisational Communication or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience in
the Enterprise Development field at supervisory level. Valid driver’s license
(with exception of persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: In-debt
knowledge of Local Economic Development and Economic Development
trends. Extensive knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Services. Computer literacy. Planning and organizing
skills. Problem solving and decision-making skills. People management and
empowerment. Team leadership. Project management. Coordination skills.
Client orientation and customer focus. Diversity management. Communication
skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Coordinate the development of Enterprise development policies and
strategies. Monitor and evaluate the programmes implemented by sector
departments, municipalities and entities for MSME’s. Develop and coordinate
marketing programmes for MSME’s. Coordinate initiatives to reduce red tape
and ease the doing business environment for MSME’s to thrive. Facilitate the
LED programme through collaborative partnerships. Monitor the
implementation of the LED policy framework to strengthen the implementation
of Local Economic Development programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/225 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CONSUMER EDUCATION & ADVICE REF NO:
C5/26/22
Directorate: Consumer Affairs
SALARY : R605 742 – R713 535 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mopani District: Giyani
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Commercial Law / Law / Business Management /
Public Administration as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) to five (5) years’
experience in the Commercial Law / Business Administration / Public
Administration field. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of relevant
legislations affecting consumers and South Africa. Customer care.
Presentation skills. Report writing. Communication skills. Negotiation skills.
Administrative management. Planning and organization. Analytical thinking.
Interviewing skills. Attention to detail. Public speaking skills. Computer literacy.
Delegation. Interpretation skills. Project management skills. Facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate and conduct compliance inspections. Facilitate and conduct
investigation of cases. Ensure provision of mediation on disputes. Represent
consumers in the Consumer Court. Provide secretariat services. Manage and
utilise resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/226 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TOURISM DESTINATION DEVELOPMENT &
TRANSFORMATION REF NO: C5/26/23 (X5 POSTS)
Directorate: Tourism Destination Development & Transformation
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R605 742 – R713 535 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Polokwane (X1 Post)
Mopani District: Giyani (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District: Lebowakgomo (X1 Post)
Vhembe District: Thohoyandou (X1 Post)
Waterberg District: Modimolle (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Tourism / Tourism Management / Development
Studies / Ecotourism Management / Tourism Development and Management
or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience
167
in the Tourism field at an Administrative Officer level. Experience in the Tourism
Destination Development and Tourism Sector Coordination field will be an
added advantage. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of tourism empowerment
programmes and capacity building skills. Good understanding of rural tourism
development and transformation policy and legislative framework. Knowledge
of tourism empowerment programmes and capacity building skills. Strong
communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy (MS Excel, MS
Word, PowerPoint, Internet, etc.). Ability to work independently and under
pressure. Project management skills. Event management and stakeholder
coordination skills. Analytical and strategic thinking skills. Planning and
coordination skills. Conflict management and problem-solving skills. Financial
management skills. Planning and organizing skills. Personnel management.
DUTIES : Develop and co-ordinate implementation of destination development and
ecotourism strategies and plans in the province. Development and
management of a provincial tourism spatial plan. Support development of a
provincial tourism infrastructure plan including signage. Provide technical
support services to community-based tourism projects. Manager route and icon
development in support of provincial tourism growth strategy in the district.
Management of tourism services in the region. Coordinate and support the
implementation of tourism transformation programmes and related events in
the district. Drafting motivations to mobilise resources for identified tourism
development and reports. Coordinate stakeholder relations in the district.
Implement rural tourism, culture and heritage and mass tourism strategies in
the district. Identify tourism business opportunities for MSME. Manage and
facilitate resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/227 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALIZED PRODUCTION REF NO:
C5/26/30
Directorate: Environmental Compliance & Enforcement
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R518 769 – R717 846 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Nature Conservation / Natural Science /
Environmental Science / Environmental Law / Policing or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience in the
Environmental Compliance & Enforcement field. Successful completion of the
Environmental Management Inspectors (EMI) course and detective experience
will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s license. Skills and Knowledge:
Knowledge and practical understanding of the Constitution, practical
experience in implementation of the National Environmental Management Act
(NEMA), together with all the Specific Environmental Management Acts,
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA) and interpretation thereof.
Knowledge of environmental wildlife facility inspection / auditing, monitoring
procedures and methodologies. A good knowledge and exposure to the
Criminal Procedures Act and good understanding of environmental legislation
and knowledge of government standard administrative procedures and policies
will be essential. Knowledge of administrative enforcement. Case docket
management. Investigation skills. Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Project management. Conflict management skills. Ability to write a
communicative report. Ability to interpret and apply environmental legislations.
Good interpersonal relations skills. Good organization and planning
management skills. Computer literacy. Report writing skills. Analytical and
quantitative skills.
DUTIES : Administer compliance monitoring in accordance with the Environmental
Authorisations (EA), Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and permit
applications. Undertake compliance enforcement operations (biodiversity
conservation matters outside protected areas). Coordinate and participated in
compliance promotion / awareness. Perform and manage administrative and
related functions. Implement procedural systems, manuals and inspection
guidelines to carry out pro-active and reactive inspections. To record and
respond to public complaints of non-compliance with Provincial and National
Environmental legislations. Plan and conduct environmental compliance
168
inspections in response to public complaints of non-compliance to legislation.
Report on the environmental compliance status on all ad-hoc inspections and
make recommendations for compliance orders and investigations or prosecute
criminal offences in respect of environmental legislations. Provide support to
national and local government compliance inspection structures with a view to
ensure government’s efficient and effective compliance inspections with all
wildlife protection legislation, regulations, authorizations and applied
enforcement instruments including notices, court orders, directives, interdicts,
etc. Investigate, open cases and manage case dockets relating to any
environmental crime negatively impacting Biodiversity in Limpopo Province.
Participate and co-ordinate counter poaching operations. Manage and facilitate
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/228 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALIZED PRODUCTION REF NO:
C5/26/31
Directorate: Environmental Quality Management
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R518 769 – R717 846 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Natural Science / Environmental Management /
Environmental Law / Environmental Science / Biodiversity or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. EAPASA registration in terms of S24H of NEMA. Three
(3) to five (5) years’ experience in the Environmental Quality Management field.
Valid driver’s license. Skills and Knowledge: Good working knowledge of
environmental legislation, Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations of
2014 as amended in April 2017, Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines
and policies. Practical knowledge of the Environmental Impact Assessment
process. Knowledge and understanding of the environmental impact hierarchy
and regulations. Sound understanding of other integrated environmental
management tools. Understanding of the objectives and provisions of the
National Environmental Management Act, 1998, and subordinate legislation.
Knowledge of relevant Public Service Acts, Rules and Regulations. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Presentation
skills. Analytical skills. Conflict management and problem-solving skills. Project
management and interpersonal relations. Ability to evaluate and review
documents and timeously produce thorough and informative documents and
formulate clear, concise, legally defensible decisions. Good planning and
organisation skills.
DUTIES : Management of the EIA process, including the drafting of environmental
authorisations and conditions of authorisations. Management and
dissemination of information and technical/procedural advice relating to
environmental impact management. Management and implementation of other
Integrated Environmental Management tools. Perform and manage
administrative and related functions. Conduct site inspections and compile site
visit reports. Evaluate environmental authorisation applications which include
the following: Provide technical and procedural advice to stakeholders (e.g.
Environmental Assessment Practitioners (EAP’s), local authorities and other
departments and applicants). Review, interpret and evaluate applications and
associated documentation according to established norms and standards.
Review and evaluate Environmental Management Programmes for mining,
municipal and water use applications. Review, evaluate and assess
applications of unlawful development. Records management. Manage and
facilitate resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/229 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: POLICY COORDINATION REF NO: C5/26/24
Directorate: Strategic Management
Re-advertisement, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
169
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Policy Development and Analysis / Public
Administration/Management / Public Management and Governance / Local
Government Management / Local Government and Administration / Public
Policy / Leadership and Development or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. A
postgraduate qualification in the mentioned qualifications will be an added
advantage. Three (3) years’ experience in the Policy Development, Analysis
and Coordination field at Supervisory level. Experience in research, policy
development, policy analysis and stakeholder engagement. Valid driver’s
license (with exception of persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: In-
debt knowledge of the policy development cycle and frameworks within the
public sector. Understanding of relevant public sector legislation, regulatory
frameworks and prescripts. Knowledge in stakeholder engagements and
participatory approaches. Knowledge in policy analysis, formulation and
review. Research and report writing skills. Problem-solving and decision-
making skills. Excellent communication skills (verbal and written).
Interpersonal and stakeholder engagement skills. Strong analytical and project
management skills. Ability to work collaboratively and engage effectively with
internal and external stakeholders. Computer literacy (MS Excel, MS Word,
PowerPoint). Integrity, proactiveness and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Coordinate, facilitate and manage the development, review and analysis of
departmental policies. Provide administrative and advisory role to
departmental units. Provide support on policy development to departmental
units. Coordinate submissions and presentations of finalised policies to
management for endorsement. Manage and facilitate resources (financial,
human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/230 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
C5/26/25
Directorate: Human Resource Management & Development
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Workstudy Management / Operations Management /
Production Management / Management Services / Industrial Engineering or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Job Evaluation certificate will be an added
advantage. Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience as a Work Study Officer/ OD
Practitioner on the Organisational Development field. Valid driver’s license
(with exception of persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: Ability to
interpret and apply policy. Knowledge of ORG Plus. Analytical and innovative
thinking. Research and report writing skills. Workshop presentation and
facilitation skills. Computer literacy. Leadership skills. Organizing skills. Project
management skills. Conflict management and negotiation skills. Financial
management skills. Strategic management skills. Policy formulation.
Adaptability during changes to meet the goals. Change and diversity
management.
DUTIES : Analyse Organisational Structure inputs and advise accordingly. Conduct
research on Organisational Structures. Identify the need for changes in the
Organisational Structure. Conduct functional and establishment investigations.
Design Organisational staff establishment structure. Draft submission for
approval of the Organisational Structure. Facilitate workshops on job
evaluation and job descriptions. Conduct job analysis. Conduct job evaluation
interviews. Analyse jobs on Equate System. Present analysed posts to the Job
Evaluation Panel. Draft submission for approval of job evaluation results. Draft
submission for implementation of job evaluation results. Monitor job evaluation
data base. Provide advice and guidance on the development of job
descriptions. Conduct research on the contents of job descriptions. Make
continuous consultations on job description related matters. Finalise job
descriptions. Monitor job description database. Facilitate workshops on
development of OFA. Analyse the information collected. Provide support to the
units/components. Finalise the OFA reports. Monitor and evaluate the OFA.
Facilitate workshops on development of procurement manuals. Analyse
procedure manuals and propose process/procedure improvements. Collect
data and document work processes and procedures. Facilitate Business
Process Re-engineering projects. Facilitate work processes and procedures
170
consultative meetings. Map the processes. Manage and facilitate resources
(financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/231 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SHERQ, HIV, STI, TB & COIDA REF NO: C5/26/26
Directorate: Employee Relations & Wellness
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Waterberg District: Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Social and Behavioural Science / Social Work /
Psychology / Occupational Health Nursing / Environmental Health or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Professional registration with SACSSP /
HPCSA / SANC or relevant statutory body. Three (3) years’ experience in the
Employee Health & Wellness field at supervisory level. Valid driver’s license
(with exception of persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge
of all Employee Health and Wellness and related policies and Acts. Specialised
knowledge of counselling. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act
and Regulations. Knowledge of Compensation of Occupational Injuries and
Diseases Act and Regulations. Knowledge of National and Provincial HIV, STI
and TB strategies. Knowledge of Employee Assistance Programme. General
knowledge in HR related standards, practices and procedures. Knowledge of
Public Service Act and Procedures. Team building. Financial management.
Conflict management skills. Communication skills (verbal and written).
Planning and organizing skills. Facilitation skills. Listening skills. Problem-
solving skills. Coordination and monitoring skills. Computer literacy. Report
writing skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate comprehensive Employee Health and Wellness
programmes. Conduct workplace health risk assessments and implement
mitigation strategies. Manage occupational health and safety programmes.
Support line management to implement strategies in relation to ill-health
related absenteeism. Facilitate OHS legal appointments in the district. Co-
ordinate safety awareness campaigns and health promotion initiatives.
Implement interventions and programmes aimed at enhancing employee
wellbeing and performance. Represent the department in the Waterberg
District AIDS Council forum. Co-ordinate and administer COIDA in the district.
Co-ordinate the sports and bereavement programme in the district. Administer
Occupational Injuries and Diseases. Facilitate and Coordinate Social club
Activities in the district. Manage and facilitate resources (financial, human and
physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/232 : ASSITANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO: C5/26/27
Directorate: Employee Relations & Wellness
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Labour Relations / Labour Relations Management /
Labour Law / LLB or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) years’
experience in the Labour Relations field of which two (2) years must be at a
supervisory level. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills and Knowledge: Strong knowledge of Labour Relations Act
(LRA), Employment Equity Act (EEA), Basic Conditions of Employment Act
(BCEA), Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Public Service Regulations
(PSR) and Public Service Act (PSA). Knowledge of GPSSBC and CCMA
Procedures. Financial management. Planning and organizing skills.
Negotiation skills. People management. Problem-solving and analysis skills.
Integrity. Presentation skills. Communication skills (verbal and written).
Computer literacy. Report writing skills. Policy formulation skills. Ability to
interpret legislation/policies.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate Labour Relations issues (i.e. grievances, misconduct
and disputes). Represent the department in disciplinary hearings. Finalizing
grievances and complaints from employees. Coordinating and supporting the
171
department in disputes referred to bargaining councils, as well as related
forums. Facilitate the implementation of the Labour Relations policies,
guidelines, procedures and provide advice, therefore. Conduct
workshops/awareness on labour relations matters. Represent the department
at the Provincial Chambers and management of strikes. Ensure keeping of
appropriate records and statistics as required by law. Make inputs to the
development of policies and procedures related to labour relations
management and implement such policies and procedures in dealing with
labour relations cases. Manage and facilitate resources (financial, human and
physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/233 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FIREARM MANAGEMENT REF NO: C5/26/28
Directorate: Security & Facility Management: Physical & Information Security
Management
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Policing / Law Enforcement / Security / Criminology
or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience
in the Firearm Control field at supervisory level. Firearm Competency certificate
(handgun / shotgun / rifle). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of the Firearm Control Act and
related regulations. Knowledge in firearm control and firearm records
management. Effective firearm control. Planning and organizing. Computer
literacy. Presentation skills. Analytical thinking. Communication skills.
Negotiation skills. Conflict management and problem-solving skills. Financial
management. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Manage departmental firearms for compliance with the Firearm Control Act 60
of 2000 and Regulation 12 and 79. Develop and maintain firearm control
policies and procedures. Conduct firearm audits, inspections and maintain and
keep firearm register up to date and compatible with the SAPS firearm register.
Conduct quarterly shooting exercises. Manage and facilitate resources
(financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/234 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF NO: C5/26/29 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Management Accounting
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District: Lebowakgomo (X1 Post)
Waterberg District: Modimolle (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Financial Management / Accounting / Management
Accounting as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience in
the Revenue Management field at supervisory level / State Accountant. Valid
driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability). Skills and
Knowledge: Knowledge of PFMA, DORA and Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of BAS system. Computer literacy. People management.
Communication skills. Interpersonal relations and analytical skills.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor revenue collection in the district. Ensure that revenue
collected is monitored, checked and banked as prescribed in the revenue
policy and procedure manual. Manage the clearing of bank exceptions as well
as all revenue control accounts. Authorize captured batches, journals and
ensure that supporting documents are attached. Review monthly revenue
management reports. Manage face value stock. Maintain and implement
effective, efficient and transparent systems of financial and risk management
and internal control. Maintain sound budgeting and budgetary control
practices. Bank reconciliation and debts management. Review monthly
revenue management reports. Manage face value stock. Manage and facilitate
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
172
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/235 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: C5/26/32
(X2 POSTS)
Environmental Communication & Awareness
Directorate: Environmental Empowerment Services
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R357 597 – R395 352 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District: Lebowakgomo (X1 Post)
Waterberg District: Modimolle (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Nature Conservation / Environmental Management /
Environmental Sciences or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. An NQF 7
relevant qualification will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s license. Skills
and Knowledge: Knowledge of Environmental legislations and protocols.
Knowledge and skills of implementing environmental education and awareness
programmes. Knowledge on education for sustainability. Basic knowledge of
linking basic education curriculum and environmental education programs.
Ability to facilitate stakeholder’s engagement processes. Computer literacy.
Excellent communication (verbal and written). Report writing skills. Planning
and organizing skills. Interpersonal relations and project/program management
skills. Presentation skills. Conflict management and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of formal Environmental education programmes
in schools through Limpopo Green Schools for the Earth Programme (LGSEP)
and career expo. Facilitate the implementation of informal environmental
education programmes/activities. Implementation of Limpopo Enviro Explorer
Youth Programme (LEEYP) including career advisory services. Coordinate
commemoration of Environmental Calendar days in the district. Conduct
environmental awareness through all legal media platforms. Facilitate,
collaboration and forming partnership with relevant stakeholders to implement
environmental education and awareness programmes. Represent the
Department in various education and awareness forums/structures in the
district. Compile Environmental education and awareness reports in the district.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/236 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: C5/26/33
Environmental Governance & Municipal Support
Directorate: Environmental Empowerment Services
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R357 597 – R395 352 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Waterberg District: Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Nature Conservation / Environmental Management /
Environmental Sciences or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s
license. Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of Environmental legislation and
protocols. Knowledge of Municipalities Integrated Development Planning (IDP)
process and legislations. Knowledge of environmental capacity building
approaches and programmes. Knowledge of community development and
conservation. Ability to facilitate stakeholder’s engagement process. Computer
literacy. Excellent communication skills (verbal and written). Report writing
skills. Planning and organizing skills. Interpersonal relations and
project/program management. Presentation skills. Field work and data
analysis. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Develop and manage the implementation of environmental capacity building
programmes. Facilitate multi stakeholder’s seminars/indabas. Manage the
implementation of the greenest municipality competition. Facilitate the
implementation of the local government support strategy and the Municipal
Environmental IDP toolkit. Represent the Environmental Branch in the district
environmental management multi stakeholder’s forum. Manage and facilitate
formation and functioning of environmental stakeholder forum in the district.
Compile sub-directorate reports. Support implementation framework for
environmental governance in Waterberg District. Perform all administrative and
related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
173
POST 17/237 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER PRODUCTION GRADE A REF NO: C5/26/34
Directorate: Provincial Protected Areas Management
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R357 597 – R395 352 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Langjan Nature Reserve
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Nature Conservation / Wildlife Management /
Environmental Management / Natural Sciences or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Three (3) years’ working experience in the Nature Conservation field.
SAPS Firearm Competency Certificate. Valid driver’s license (with exception of
persons with disability). No criminal record. Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge
of Nature Reserve Management and Nature Conservation legislations and
policies. Knowledge of and the ability to interpret directives, policy, guidelines,
environmental legislation and multilateral environmental agreements.
Compiling of reports. Ability to use a firearm. Computer literacy. Analysis skills.
Client orientation and customer focus skills. Communication skills. People
management. Conflict management and problem-solving skills. Change and
diversity management skills. Planning and organizing skills. Policy formulation
skills. Financial management skills.
DUTIES : Plan and implement conservation management program in the nature reserve.
Plan an implements law enforcement programs in the nature reserve. Promote
biodiversity conservation awareness. Promote ecosystem functioning activities
of the reserve. Infrastructure management services within the nature reserve.
Plan and undertake surveys and recording of data in the reserve. Maintenance
of infrastructure and recreational facilities. Conduct stakeholder engagement
programmes. Perform tourism management activities as well as the
management of administration and related functions. Perform all administrative
and relations functions at the nature reserve. Manage and facilitate resources
(financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/238 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: C5/26/35
Directorate: Head of Department
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Personal Assistant / Secretarial / Office Management
/ Business Management / Management Assistant or equivalent as recognized
by SAQA. Two (2) years’ working experience in the following: rendering support
to Executive Management, in minutes taking, in managing traveling
arrangements, namely: developing travelling itineraries, arranging flights and
accommodation. Two (2) years’ experience in electronic calendar
management, in Microsoft Office Suite; namely: Outlook and Excel and in other
relevant software namely: Zoom and MS Teams. Valid driver’s license (with
exception of persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: Basic knowledge
of the relevant legislation / policies / prescripts and procedures governing
public service. Basic knowledge of financial administration. Exceptional
organisational skills: Ability to manage multiple tasks simultaneously with
meticulous attention to detail. Strong communication skills: Excellent written
and verbal communication skills to effectively interact with diverse individuals
at all levels and backgrounds. Proficiency in technology: Knowledge in
Microsoft Office Suite, calendar applications and other relevant software.
Comprehensive understanding of office management systems and
applications. Discretion and confidentiality: Ability to handle sensitive
information with utmost discretion. Anticipatory thinking: Proactive ability to
anticipate needs and proactively address potential issues. Professionalism and
courtesy: Ability to maintain a professional demeanour, demonstrating
excellent interpersonal skills. Good grooming and presentation. Self-
management and motivation.
DUTIES : Receive telephone calls in an environment where, in addition to the calls for
the HoD, discretion is required to decide to whom the calls should be
forwarded. In the process the job incumbent should be finalise some enquiries.
Performed advanced typing work. Operates and ensures that office equipment,
174
e.g. fax machines and photocopiers are in good working order. Records the
engagements of the HoD. Utilizes discretion to decide whether to
accept/decline or refer to other employee’s requests for meetings, based on
the importance and urgency of the matter. Coordinates with and
sensitizes/advises the HoD regarding engagements. Compile realistic
schedules of appointments. Ensure the effective flow of information and
documents to and from the office of the HoD. Ensures the safekeeping of all
documentation in the office of the HoD in line with relevant legislation and
policies. Obtain inputs, collates and compiles reports. Scrutinizes routine
submission/reports and make notes and recommendations for the HoD.
Responds to enquiries received from internal and external stakeholders. Draft
documents as required. Filing of documents for the HoD and the unit where
required. Collects, analyses and collates information requested by the HoD.
Clarifies instructions and notes on behalf of the HoD. Ensures that travel
arrangements are well coordinated. Prioritizes issues in the office of the HoD.
Manages the leave register and telephone accounts for the unit. Handles the
procurement of standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. for the
activities of the HoD and the unit. Obtain the necessary signatures on
documents like procurement advices and monthly salary reports. Collects and
compiles all necessary documents for the HoD to inform him/her on the
contents. Records minutes/decisions and communicates to relevant role-
players, follow-up on progress made. Prepares briefing notes for the HoD as
required. Coordinates logistical arrangements for the meetings when required.
Collect and coordinates all the documents that related the HoD’s budget.
Assists HoD in the determining funding requirements for the purposes of MTEF
submissions. Keeps record of expenditure commitments, monitors expenditure
and alerts HoD of possible over and under spending. Checks and correlates
BAS reports to ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly. Identifies the
need to move funds between items, consults with the HoD and compiles draft
memos for this purpose. Compares the MTEF allocation with the requested
budget and informs the HoD of changes. Remains up to date with regard to the
prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to his/her work terrain to ensure
efficient and effective support to the HoD. Remains abreast with the procedures
and processes that apply in the office of the HoD.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/239 : SPECIAL PROGRAMMES OFFICER: SPECIAL PROGRAMMES REF NO:
C5/26/36
Directorate: Strategic Management
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani District: Giyani
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Public Administration / Public Management / HRM /
Gender Studies / Youth Studies / Disability Studies or equivalent as recognized
by SAQA. Two (2) years’ experience in the Special Programmes /
Administration within government. Valid driver’s license (with exception of
persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding
of the Public Service, HR Policies, Change Management Engagement,
Employment Equity, Affirmative Action measures and other legislation related
to transformation. Policy analysis, development and monitoring. Knowledge of
Gender Equity and Women Empowerment Programme. Promotion of the rights
of women, people with disabilities and the youth. Mainstreaming and
implementation of gender, elderly programmes, youth developmental
programmes and job access strategy. Excellent communication skills (verbal
and written). Coordination skills. Planning and organisation skills. Leading and
controlling skills. Research skills. Report writing and presentation skill.
Knowledge management. Problem solving and analysis skills. Programme and
project management skills. Financial management and service delivery
innovation skills. Client orientation, stakeholder management and customer
focus. Policy analysis, development and monitoring skills.
DUTIES : Compile and submit progress reports on: Achieved equity targets and
compliance with employment equity plan. Gender sensitive workplace.
Disability friendly environment and percentage of disability targets achieved.
Integration of youth, gender, disability and elderly programmes. Financial
management within the directorate. Provide support at the districts and / or
175
head office on special programmes imperatives. Capacity building and
awareness to all staff. Ensure efficient and effective resource management.
Information dissemination. Networking and benchmarking for best practice.
Manage all procurement and logistical needs for the sub-directorate at the
district level and liaise with SCM for processing. Implementation of national and
provincial directives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/240 : COMMUNICATION OFFICER REF NO: C5/26/37 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Communication Services
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Capricorn District: Polokwane (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
Mopani District: Giyani (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Communication / Journalism / Media studies / Public
Relations / Marketing or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Two (2) years’
experience in the Communication environment. Photographic skills and
registration with PRISA will be an added advantage. Valid driver’s license (with
exception of persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: Computer literacy
(MS Office applications). Knowledge of applicable legislation of government
framework and relevant legislation. Good communication skills (verbal &
written) including interpersonal skills. Presentation skills. Report writing skills.
Analytical thinking. Good negotiation skills. Strategic thinking. Adaptability.
DUTIES : Compile, plan and implement the district events calendar. Support
departmental events / activities. Monitor and evaluate events. Write articles for
the departmental newsletter. Source information for both the intranet and the
website. Ensure correct information into departmental publications (online and
printed). Develop image bank of the department (Officials, events etc.).
Manage the departmental media profile and create relations with the media.
Provide journalistic duties to events in the districts. Conduct regular media
monitoring and feedback sessions with units affected to manage their
communication. Regularly update media contact list. Provide information and
pictures for social media platform. Develop networks for communication at
district level.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/241 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE REF NO:
C5/26/38 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Human Resource Management & Development
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani District: Giyani (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
Vhembe District: Thohoyandou (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Human Resource Management or equivalent, in the
field of HRM, as recognized by SAQA. Two (2) years’ experience in Human
Resource Management: Conditions of Services field. Successful completion
PERSAL Administration training. Valid South African driver’s license (with
exception of persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations and PILIR. Knowledge of
relevant government legislative prescripts. Knowledge of the PERSAL System.
Knowledge of the PCM System. Ability to interpret and apply policy. Analytical
and innovative thinking. Business writing skills. Report and analysis skills.
Computer literacy. Accurate data capturing. Data management skills.
Presentation and communication skills. Financial and change management
skills. Programme and project management skills. Problem solving skills. Client
orientation skills. Policy formulation. Project management.
DUTIES : Supervise and render effective administration process of all types of service
terminations (death, resignations, retirements, contract expiry and discharge).
Administer leave process including Policy and Procedure on Incapacity Leave
and Ill-health Retirement (PILIR). Supervise processing of leave
gratuities/discounting, termination of service and processing of pension
documents. Administer long service awards, medical aid and housing
allowance. Manage PERSAL transactions related to service benefits. Utilise
176
resources effectively. Adhere to Batho Pele Principles, Service Standards as
well as Human Resource Policies and Procedures. Compile analysis and CoE
liability reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/242 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SHERQ, HIV, STI, TB & COIDA REF NO:
C5/26/39
Directorate: Employee Relations & Wellness
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Safety Management / Social and Behavioural
Sciences / Environmental Health / HRM&D or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Two (2) years’ experience in the Employee Health and Wellness field.
Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability). Skills and
Knowledge: Knowledge of COIDA, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Compensation Fund Policies, Public Financial Management Act,
National Treasury Regulations, PoPIA, PAIA and Customer Services (Batho
Pele Principles). Knowledge of the Employee Assistance Programme.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Report writing
skills. Listening skills. Telephone etiquette and basic interpersonal skills. Data
and records management. Problem-solving and decision-making skills.
Analytical thinking skills. Planning and organization skills. Coordination and
monitoring skills.
DUTIES : To implement the plan for management of occupational injuries and diseases.
Conduct safety awareness workshops in the department and districts. Develop
and maintain register for occupations injuries and diseases at Head Office.
Conduct incident investigations in the workplace and ensure timeous reporting
thereof according to the requirements of the General Administrative
Regulations. Assist the development and review of OHS/COID general service
delivery standards. Monitor implementation of COID in the districts. Collate
information on trends regarding occupational injuries and diseases and report
quarterly and annually. Liaise with Compensation Commissioner on injury on
duty cases. Render administrative support to the directorate. Environmental
Health promotion programmes (communicable and non-communicable
diseases). Implement Employee Assistance Programme in the department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/243 : CONSUMER OFFICER REF NO: C5/26/40
Directorate: Consumer Affairs
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Waterberg District: Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Business Management / Economics / Public
Administration / Commercial Law / Business Administration / Law or equivalent
as recognized by SAQA. Two (2) years’ experience in Consumer Affairs field,
dealing with LCPA, CPS Legislation or inspectorate and investigation
environment. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability).
Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant legislation (CPA, LPCA and
PSA). Knowledge of Public Sector Policies and Regulations. Consumer care
skills. Good communication skills (verbal and written). Negotiation skills.
Presentation skills. Analytical and problem-solving skills. Report writing skills.
Computer literacy. Planning and organising skills. Public speaking skills.
Attention to detail. Project management skills. Facilitation skills. Ability to work
under pressure.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services in the Consumer Affairs offices.
Conduct compliance inspections. Conduct investigation of consumer
complaints. Conduct consumer education and prepare reports. Liaise with
consumers and stakeholders. Administer LPCA and CPA.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
177
POST 17/244 : CLUSTER SALES OFFICER REF NO: C5/26/41
Directorate: Commercial Development
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Tourism Management / Hospitality Management /
Business Management / Marketing Management or equivalent as recognized
by SAQA. Two (2) to three (3) years’ working experience in the Sales and
Marketing field. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability).
No criminal record. Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge and the ability to
interpret and apply directives, policy, guidelines, environmental legislation and
sales and marketing strategies. Computer literacy. Analytical thinking skills.
Problem solving and analysis skills. Client orientation and customer focus.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Customer relationship
management. People management. Leadership skills. Financial management
skills.
DUTIES : Implement strategic marketing plans and sales plans for Limpopo Wildlife
Resorts (LWR). Render advertising and promotion activities, including print,
online, electronic media and direct mail. Implement product positioning,
packaging and pricing strategy to produce the highest possible long-term
market share. Establish and maintain relationships with industry influencers
and key strategic partners. Manage sales/marketing operating budget. Identify
media, trade marketing and advertising platforms. Provide after-sales services
to customer base. Recruit new customers. Update information on the website
and publications regularly. Post all activities on social media platforms.
Respond to online enquiries, complaints and compliments. Conduct all sales
promotional activities. Distribution of collaterals for resorts. Coordinate product
promotion and advertising. Coordinate co-marketing with the concessionaires
in the resort. Coordinate resort marketing initiatives and proposals. Coordinate
resorts’ marketing reports. Report writing. Partnership management with
communities, public and private stakeholders. Community levies. Community
empowerment. Kids and Parks programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/245 : PROJECT ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: C5/26/42
Directorate: Commercial Development
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Tourism Management / Business Management /
Project Management or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. A degree in
Tourism Management / Business Management / Project Management will be
an added advantage. Two (2) to three (3) years’ working experience in the
Business Administration / Project Management field. Valid driver’s license (with
exception of persons with disability). No criminal record. Skills and Knowledge:
Knowledge and the ability to interpret and apply directives, policy, guidelines,
environmental legislation and project management. Computer literacy.
Analytical skills. Conflict management and problem solving. Client orientation
and customer focus. Communication skills (verbal and written). Customer
relationship management. People management. Leadership skills.
Stakeholder management.
DUTIES : Provide support to project teams. Coordinate Public Private Partnerships
(PPP) projects. Develop concept documents for projects. Facilitate
development, negotiation and signing of agreements. Coordinate committee
meetings. Provide secretarial function for project teams. Implement Limpopo
Wildlife Resorts (LWR) Revenue Enhancement Projects. Coordinate product
development initiatives for provincial nature reserves and resorts. Monitor LWR
business products and services within the provincial nature reserves. Identify
and assess new business opportunities to diversify LWR revenue streams and
improve its market position. Develop project plans, profiles, packages, and
maps in Nature Reserves and Resorts. Manage and supervise project teams.
Conduct risk analysis. Administration of product development projects in
178
resorts. Facilitate the participation of affected stakeholders in all planned
projects to ensure project sustainability.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/246 : BOOKINGS & RESERVATION OFFICER REF NO: C5/26/43
Directorate: Commercial Development
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Tourism Management / Hospitality Management /
Business Management or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Two (2) to three
(3) years’ working experience in the Bookings and Reservation field or Front
Office role in a lodge, resort or eco-tourism setting. Valid driver’s license (with
exception of persons with disability). No criminal record. Skills and Knowledge:
Knowledge and the ability to interpret and apply directives, policy, guidelines,
environmental legislation and project management. Computer literacy.
Analytical skills. Conflict management and problem solving skills. Client
orientation and customer focus. Communication skills (verbal and written).
Customer relations management. People management. Leadership skills.
Stakeholder management. Sales and product knowledge (Provincial Protected
Nature Reserves and Reports). Financial management. Telephone etiquette.
Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Manage and process all booking inquiries through telephone, email and online
platforms. Provide detailed information about the resort’s accommodation,
wildlife activities (e.g. game drives, hiking trails, etc.), conservation projects,
dining options and community-based experiences. Accurately update and
manage the reservation system, including guest preferences and special
requests. Liaise with resort staff and operations teams to ensure availability of
activities and accommodation. Send booking confirmations, invoices, payment
requests and pre-arrival communication to guests and resort officials.
Coordinate group and package bookings, including tailored itineraries and
activity packages. Monitor occupancy levels and suggest strategies to optimise
lodging capacity. Handle cancellations, changes and no-shows according to
the Reservations policy and ensure proper guest communication. Assist in
managing partnerships with booking agents, tourism boards and online travel
platforms. Handle clients’ queries, complaints and compliments. Filing and
safekeeping of documents. Liaise with IT unit for Online Reservations and
Booking System upgrades. Prepare daily, weekly and monthly booking reports
for management review. Verify and compile database of revenue activities,
including guest profiles, booking statistics and revenue reports. Review
reservation policies and procedures periodically, identify means of improving
productivity and efficiency. Administer complementary bookings. Review
annual tariffs according to different categories. Loading of tariffs in the
reservation system. Develop and review terms and conditions for reservations.
Identify opportunities to promote additional services or packages to enhance
customer experience. Provide input into promotional campaigns and seasonal
offers based on booking trends. Implement promotions and specials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/247 : PERMIT OFFICER REF NO: C5/26/44
Directorate: Wildlife Resources Management
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Waterberg District: Mokopane Service Centre
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Public Administration / Office Management or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA. One (1) to two (2) years’ experience. Valid
driver’s license (with exception people with disability). Be able to travel as and
when required. Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of the relevant acts,
directives and resolutions. Computer literacy. Administrative. Records keeping.
Norms and standards. Interpersonal relations. Conflict management and
problem solving. Interpretation skills.
DUTIES : Perform and render administrative support for permit duties. Access permit
applications for hunting, capture, transport, relocation, import and export of
fauna and flora. Process biodiversity permits within prescribed legislative
timeframes. Maintain accurate and updated permit registers and electronic
179
databases. Monitor validity and renewal of permits. Receive and capture permit
applications. Handle the PHoDIS kits, microships and the distribution of lion,
crocodile and leopard hunting tags. Facilitate, issue and monitor the distribution
of issued permits. Liaise and advise stakeholders pertaining to permit matters.
Attend to permit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/248 : PERMIT CLERK REF NO: C5/26/45
Directorate: Wildlife Resources Management
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 4 qualification (Grade 12) as recognized by SAQA. An NQF 6
qualification in Public Administration / Office Management or equivalent will be
an added advantage. One (1) year experience. Valid driver’s license (with
exception people with disability). Be able to travel as and when required. Skills
and Knowledge: Knowledge of the relevant acts, directives and resolutions.
Computer literacy. Administrative. Records keeping. Norms and standards.
Interpersonal relations. Conflict management and problem solving.
Interpretation skills.
DUTIES : Render day to day permitting and administrative support. Receive and
administer permit queries registers, appeals and electronic database. Collate
information and file processed permit applications. Liaise, and advice
stakeholders relating to permit matters. Receive processed permit applications
for hunting, capture, transport, relocation, import, and export wildlife. Evaluate
and administer the environmental management plan recommendations.
Distribute all issued permits to applicants within stipulated timeframes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/249 : PERSONNEL OFFICER: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE REF NO: C5/26/46 (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Human Resource Management & Development
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District: Lebowakgomo (X1 Post)
Vhembe District: Thohoyandou (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 6 qualification in Human Resource Management or equivalent, as
recognized by SAQA. One (1) to two (2) years’ experience in Human Resource
Management: Conditions of Services field will be an added advantage.
Successful completion PERSAL Administration training will be an added
advantage. Valid South African driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations and PILIR. Knowledge of relevant government legislative
prescripts. Knowledge of PERSAL system. Knowledge of PCM system.
Business writing skills. Report and analysis skills. Computer literacy. Accurate
data capturing. Data management skills. Presentation and communication
skills. Financial and change management skills. Programme and project
management skills. Problem solving skills. Client orientation skills. Policy
development skills.
DUTIES : Render effective administration process of all types of service terminations
(death, resignations, retirements, contract expiry, and discharge). Administer
leave process including Policy and Procedure on Incapacity Leave and Ill-
health Retirement (PILIR). Processing of leave gratuities/discounting,
administer long service awards, medical aid and housing allowance.
Administer termination of service and processing of pension documents.
Capture and process PERSAL Transactions related to service benefits.
Processing of pension benefits. Utilise resources effectively. Adhere to Batho
Pele Principles, Service Standards as well as Human Resource Policies and
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
180
POST 17/250 : REVENUE CLERK REF NO: C5/26/47 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Management Accounting
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District: Lebowakgomo (X1 Post)
Waterberg District: Lephalale Service Centre (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 4 qualification (Grade 12) with Accounting as a subject or equivalent
as recognized by SAQA. An appropriate NQF 6 qualification in Financial
Management / Accounting / Management Accounting will be an added
advantage. Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability).
Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of PFMA, DORA and Treasury regulations.
Computer literacy. People management and communication skills.
Interpersonal relations and analytical skills. Financial management.
DUTIES : Issuing of receipts and safeguarding of revenue assets and stock registers.
Ensure that all revenue is collected, recorded and banked as prescribed in the
revenue policy and procedure manual. Ensure proper safe keeping of face
value stock. Compile monthly revenue statistics. Clearing of exceptions in
financial accounts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/251 : SENIOR FIELD RANGER REF NO: C5/26/48 (X5 POSTS)
Directorate: Provincial Protected Areas Management
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Langjan Nature Reserve (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
Lekgalameetse Nature Reserve (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
Makuya Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
Mphaphuli Nature Reserve (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
Rust de Winter Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 4 (Grade 12) / ABET / AET level 3 qualification or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. A National Diploma in Nature Conservation or related will
be an added advantage. Valid SAPS Firearm Competency Certificate. Related
training is essential (from SAWC or any other accredited institution). One (1) to
two (2) years’ working experience in the Nature Conservation field. Valid
driver’s license (with exception of persons with disability). Physically fit. No
criminal record. Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of nature reserve
management and nature conservation legislations and policies (national and
provincial). Ability to use a firearm. Computer literacy. Problem solving and
analysis skills. Client orientation and customer focus. Communication skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the protection of the nature reserve and its natural resources. Lead
teams with the following: law enforcement operations / programmes (nature
conservation patrols), inspection and repair the boundary fence, infrastructure
maintenance, manage visitors’ behaviour and actions in the reserve, reporting
non-compliance, assist with fire management services and assist with access
control. Assist with monitoring of ecological processes, habitats and
biodiversity in the nature reserve which include: gathering biological and
ecological data, identify and conduct ecological rehabilitation programs such
as soil erosion controls, alien plants removal and bush encroachment
programs. Assist Wildlife Management in other areas and communities.
Conduct conservation management programmes (water provision and fire
management). Assist with game monitoring programmes. Assist with
administration activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/252 : MESSENGER/DRIVER: RECORDS & KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT REF
NO: C5/26/49
Directorate: Security & Facility Management
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District: Lebowakgomo
181
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 3 (Grade 8 / ABET / AET) qualification or equivalent as recognized by
SAQA. Seven (7) to twelve (12) months experience in driving will be an added
advantage. A valid PDP licence. Valid driver’s license (with exception of
persons with disability). Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge of messenger
services. Knowledge of planning and organising. Knowledge of roads and
places. Knowledge of messenger services. Computer literacy. Good people
skills. High level of reliability. Basic written communication skills. The ability to
act with tact and discretion. Good grooming and presentation skills. Ability to
operate photocopier machine. Organisational skills.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium motor vehicles to transport passengers and deliver
other items such as mail and documents. Do routine maintenance on the
allocated vehicle and report defects timely. Complete all the required and
prescribed records and logs books with regard to the vehicle and the goods
handled. Collect mail and documents from all over as requested. Collect mail
from post office including heavy boxes. Deliver invitations to stakeholders e.g.
business group. Collect stationery and goods from stores. Collect and deliver
documentation and related items in the department. Copy and fax documents.
Assist in the registry activities. Attend to district logistical support services.
Provide transport services for the district officials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/253 : FIELD RANGER REF NO: C5/26/50 (X19 POSTS)
Directorate: Provincial Protected Areas Management
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Atherstone Nature Reserve (X2 Posts), (Re-advertisement)
Blouberg Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
Brackenridge Nature Reserve (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
Hans Merensky Nature Reserve (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
Langjan Nature Reserve (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
Makapans Valley WHS (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
Makuya Nature Reserve (X2 Posts)
Matrompie Nature Reserve (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
Modjadji Nature Reserve (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
Mokolo Dam Nature Reserve (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
Mphaphuli Nature Reserve (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
Nwanedi Nature Reserve (X2 Posts), (Re-advertisement)
Rust de Winter Nature Reserve (X1 Post)
Turfloop Nature Reserve (X2 Posts), (Re-advertisement)
Witvinger Nature Reserve (X1 Post), (Re-advertisement)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 4 (Grade 12 / ABET / AET level 3) qualification or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. Valid SAPS Firearm Competency Certificate
(handgun/rifle/shotgun). Valid driver’s license (with exception of persons with
disability). Physically fit. No criminal record. Experience in conservation
management programs will be an added advantage. Conservation training
certificate / qualification is essential from accredited institution. Skills and
Knowledge: Knowledge of nature reserve management and nature
conservation legislations and policies (national and provincial). Ability to use a
firearm. Problem solving and analysis skills. Client orientation and customer
focus. Communication skills.
DUTIES : Assist with the protection of the nature reserve and its natural resources.
Conduct law enforcement operations / programs (nature conservation patrols).
Inspect and repair the boundary fence. Infrastructure maintenance. Manage
visitors’ behaviour and actions in reserves. Report non-compliance. Assist with
fire management services. Assist with access control. Assist with monitoring of
ecological processes, habitats and biodiversity in nature reserves which
include gathering biological and ecological data. Identify and conduct
ecological rehabilitation programmes such as soil erosion controls, alien plants
removal and bush encroachment programmes. Assist Wildlife Management in
other areas and communities. Conduct conservation management
programmes (water provision and fire management programmes). Assist with
game monitoring and management programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
182
POST 17/254 : CLEANER: WORK ENVIRONMENT & FACILITY SERVICES REF NO:
C5/26/51 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Security & Facility Management
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mopani District: Giyani (X1 Post) (Re-advertisement)
Mopani District: Phalaborwa Service Centre (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District: Lebowakgomo (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 3 qualification (Grade 8 / ABET / AET certificate) or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. Skills and Knowledge: Must be able to function in a team.
Willing to receive guidance and instructions. Basic knowledge of cleaning
techniques. Ability to use cleaning equipment and products, application thereof
according to specified cleaning techniques to ensure acceptable clean and
neat appearance of building. Understanding of basic hygiene practices.
Chemical handling skills. Knowledge of cleaning products an applications.
Ability to read and write. Communication and listening skills. Planning,
organising and people skills.
DUTIES : Cleaning of offices, reception area, corridors, elevators, boardrooms, kitchen,
restrooms, equipment, state property and assets on a daily basis. Keep and
maintain cleaning materials and equipment. Empty office dustbins daily and
dispose of all refuse appropriately in the refuse bins for collection. Check
bathrooms cleanliness regularly. Clean windows on the inside and outside.
Store all cleaning equipment and products neatly in the designed cupboards.
Provide assistance in the preparations of meetings in boardrooms. Serving
water / tea / coffee. Request cleaning materials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
POST 17/255 : ROOM ATTENDANT REF NO: C5/26/52
Directorate: Provincial Protected Areas Management
Re-advertisements, all applicants who previously applied need to re-apply if
interested as the previous applications will not be considered.
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Lekgalameetse Nature Reserve
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF 3 qualification (Grade 8 / ABET / AET certificate) or equivalent as
recognized by SAQA. A housekeeping certificate will be an added advantage.
Physically fit. No criminal record. Skills and Knowledge: Ability to work
independently and under sustained pressure. Excellent communication and
customer relations services skills. Ability to interact with guests and addressing
their needs according to job resources. Flexibility in working hours, including
weekends and holidays. Time management skills. Ability to complete tasks
efficiently and prioritize workload. Must have knowledge of cleaning products
and equipment. Ability to execute instructions. Ability to work effectively as part
of a team. Adaptability. Be physically fit to perform tasks like lifting, carrying
and moving heavy items. Work under extreme weather conditions (cold and
hot). People skills. Ability to organise. Service orientation. Decision-making
ability. Be self-motivated. Conflict management. Innovation skills.
DUTIES : Cleaning tourism facilities, ensuring that guest rooms are properly cleaned,
empty waste bins, rooms are properly prepared with clean linen. Clean kitchen,
crockery and cutlery. Housekeeping services- remove, wash, iron and store
linen properly Guest suppliers are provided and regularly cleaned. Cleaning
public areas – all tourist’ facilities and surroundings are always clean and ready
for use by guests. Always adhere to hospitality standards. Ensure records of
stock and amenities. Light bulbs are checked and replaced if necessary. Report
damaged items in the guest rooms. Complete hospitality forms from guest.
Cleaning of conference halls.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klaassen Tel No: (015) 293 8691
183
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
shortlisted candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the correct references when
applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za. Only online applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 days after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note: The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the posts were posted in the Public Service
Vacancy Circular 16 dated 15 May 2026, the posts of Chief Data Technologist:
Information and Knowledge Management (Provincial Office, Mbombela
(Nelspruit) with Ref No: MPDoH/May/26/266, Assistant Director: Strategic
Planning (Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)) with Ref No:
MPDoH/Mar/26/305 and Assistant Director: Operational Planning (Provincial
Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)) with Ref No: MPDoH/Mar/26/306, and its closing
date of 29 May 2026, respectively, has been withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/256 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1: FAMILY PHYSICIAN REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/754
SALARY : R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per annum
CENTRE : Embhuleni Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Family Physician
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
184
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Family Physician) for foreign qualified employees.
Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of
medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency
and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and
under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Family Physician and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/257 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/758 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 041 402 - R1 121 241 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
Piet Retief Hospital (X2 Posts)
Elsie Ballot Hospital (X1 Post)
Standerton Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer
must be able to work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability
to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
185
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Assist with clinical audits
actively participate in continuous professional development. Provide support to
hospital management towards an efficient standard of patient care and
services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/258 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/759
SALARY : R882 816 – R936 987 per annum
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Pharmacy Degree or equivalent qualification.
Current registration with South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) (2026). Core
competencies recommended. Commitment to quality development of self and
others. Computer literacy, good interpersonal skills. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Strong leadership and managerial skills.
DUTIES : Ensure proper selection and procurement of drugs and surgical items for the
hospital. Ensure rational use of drugs. Develop a hospital medicine formulary.
Monitor expenditure on pharmaceutical and surgical items. Perform stock
control functions. Ensure proper reconciliation of pharmaceutical accounts.
Supervise and train Pharmacy Support Staff, Interns, Community Servers and
Junior Pharmacist.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/259 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/760
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 484 per annum
CENTRE : Bethal Town Clinic (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Basic qualification
accredited with the South African Nursing Council in Terms of Government
Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or Equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse (2026) plus a post
basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice No R212 in Primary Health Care. A
minimum of nine (09) years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council
(SANC) in General Nursing. At least five (05) years of period referred to above
must be appropriate/recognizable in the specific specialty after obtaining the
one (01) year post basic qualification in Primary Health Care Nursing Science.
Experience and knowledge of the District Health System. Demonstrate an in-
depth understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practices and how these impact on service delivery. Demonstrate a basic
understanding of HR and finance and practices. Knowledge of relevant legal
framework such as Nursing Act, Health Occupational and Safety Act, Patients
Right Charter, Batho Pele Principles, Operational Management Skills. Problem
Solving, planning and Organizing Skills. Expected to work under pressure and
on night duty. Leadership. Supervisory, problem-solving, conflict resolution,
inter-personal and communication and communication skills. Demonstrate an
in-depth understanding of legislation and related ethical nursing practices and
how this impact on service delivery. Computer literacy will be an added
advantage (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage and provide PHC facility supervisory in line with the PHC Supervision
Guideline. Ensure clinical nursing practice by the nursing team in the facility in
accordance with the scope and practice and nursing standard as determined
by the relevant health facility. Promote quality nursing care as directed by the
professional scope of practice and standard in accordance with the PHC
delivery package. Ensure the implementation on National Core Norms and
Standards including Six Priority Areas. Advocate for patients through ensuring
186
adherence to Batho Pele Principles. Coordinate community involvement and
participation. Manage and monitor effective use and maintenance of assets
and infrastructure of the facility. Monitor information management and
documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/260 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (PN-A5): GENERAL UNIT
REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/761
SALARY : R571 161 - R654 285 per annum
CENTRE : Bernice Samuel Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of seven (7) years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2026). A Diploma /
Degree in Nursing Administration and Management will be an added
advantage. Knowledge/skills: Basic computer literacy, strong Leadership,
Good communication and Sound Interpersonal skills. Ability to work under
pressure, manage own time, function as an effective leader of the nursing
team. Implement and manage change. Willingness to work shifts and standby
in accordance with the requirements of the unit and nursing services. Report
writing.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for Planning, Organizing, Managing, and
coordinating as well as maintaining optimal Nursing Services as an Operational
Manager in General Ward. Develop / establish and maintain constructive
working relationships with Nursing and stakeholders (i.e. inter- Professional,
inter–sectoral and multi – disciplinary team workers). Participate in the
analysis, formulation, and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices,
Standards, and procedures. Effectively manage the utilization of Human,
Financial and Physical resources. Maintain professional Growth / Ethical
standards and self-development. Deliver a supportive service to the Nursing
Service and the institution by taking overall supervision after hours and on
weekends. Ensure implementation of Norms and Standards and Ideal Hospital
Framework and develop Quality Improvement Plans. Manage Performance
and Development of staff as well as participating in the Managers scheduled
meetings. Exercise control of discipline, grievance and other labour related
issues in terms of laid down policies or procedures. Manage data in the unit
and ensure submission to the facility information office. Identity develops and
control Risk Management Systems within the unit. Provide safe therapeutic
environment as laid by Nursing Acts, Occupational Health and safety Acts and
all the applicable prescripts. Implementation and management of Infection
Prevention and Control protocols. Uphold the Batho Pele and Patients Right
Principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/261 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME CO-ORDINATOR GRADE 1 (PN-A5): MOTHER,
CHILD, WOMEN, YOUTH AND HEALTH (MCWYH) REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/762
SALARY : R571 161 - R654 285 per annum
CENTRE : Msukaligwa Sub-District (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2026). A minimum of seven (7) years
appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to work in a team as
well as independently. Specialized experience: for the MCWYH stream,
187
departments often prioritize candidates who have at least 3 to 5 years of
experience specifically within Maternal and Child Health services (e.g.,
Antenatal Care, PMTCT, and Integrated Management of Childhood Illness).
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, and PowerPoint) is essential for data
analysis and report writing as an added advantage. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Program Coordination: Implementing and monitoring MCWYH policies and
guidelines across clinics and hospitals. Quality Assurance: Conducting clinical
audits and ensuring adherence to the "Ideal Clinic" or "Ideal Hospital"
Realization and Maintenance Framework. Data Management: Analysing
program indicators (e.g., maternal mortality rates, immunization coverage) to
develop Quality Improvement Plans (QIPs). Staff Development: Facilitating
training and clinical accompaniment for junior staff and students.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/262 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME CO-ORDINATOR GRADE 1 (PN-A5):
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES CONTROL (CDC) REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/763
SALARY : R571 161 - R654 285 per annum
CENTRE : Msukaligwa Sub-District (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2026). A minimum of seven (7) years
appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to work in a team as
well as independently. Specialized experience: for the CDC stream,
departments often prioritize candidates who have at least 3 to 5 years of
experience specifically within Communicable Diseases Control services.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, and PowerPoint) is essential for data
analysis and report writing as an added advantage. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : As a Clinical Programme Coordinator for CDC, your focus shifts from direct
patient care to district or sub-district oversight: Surveillance: Monitoring and
analyzing data for communicable diseases (e.g., Measles, Malaria, Meningitis)
and reporting NMCs to the district/provincial level. Outbreak Management:
Coordinating the response to disease outbreaks, including contact tracing and
community screening. Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E): Conducting support
visits to clinics to ensure adherence to infectious disease protocols and the
Ideal Clinic Realization Framework. Training & Mentorship: Facilitating clinical
training for nurses on the management of infectious diseases and new
treatment regimens (e.g., Bedaquiline for TB). Reporting: Compiling monthly
and quarterly performance reports against Annual Performance Plan (APP)
targets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/263 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/766 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
Warburton CHC
Emthonjeni Clinic
Paulina Morapedi CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026). Minimum of
fourteen (14) years appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. At least ten (10) of the
period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience in the
188
specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification, with a
duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in terms of Government
Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care Science. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Primary Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/264 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): ADVANCED MIDWIFERY REF
NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/767
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Piet Retief Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Advanced Midwifery
Nursing Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
Ability to function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Advanced Midwifery Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
189
POST 17/265 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/768
Re-Advertisement
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public
Policy / Public Management / Development Studies / Public Administration. as
recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) years’ extensive at
supervisory / managerial (Level 7/8) within Strategic Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation Environment. A relevant postgraduate qualification (e.g. in Public
Health) will be an added advantage. Knowledge of Strategic Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation mechanisms, Public Service Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Municipal Finance Management Act
(MFMA), Treasury Regulations and other local government legislation. Must
possess the following skills: facilitation, coordination, presentation,
communication, analytical and problem-solving, report writing and stakeholder
management. Proficiency in Microsoft suite is desirable, with strong working
capability in Excel, Word and PowerPoint. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate the planning calendar, templates and internal processes for
development and revision of the Strategic Plan and Annual Performance Plan,
in line with national and provincial directives and timelines. Consolidate and
technically quality-assure programme inputs into draft Strategic Plan/APP and
aligned operational/implementation plans. Support alignment across planning
instruments to strengthen coherence and traceability of objectives, indicators,
targets and interventions. Provide technical guidance to programmes and
districts on formulating and refining measurable, consistent indicators and
targets aligned to departmental objectives. Contribute to departmental
visioning and strategic direction-setting, including preparing technical inputs for
strategic sessions. Coordinate and support alignment between
strategic/statutory plans and municipal Integrated Development Plans by
providing health-sector inputs to municipal/district processes and ensuring
departmental priorities are integrated into district/metro planning instruments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/266 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OPERATIONAL PLANNING REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/769
Re-Advertisement
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public
Administration / Public Management / Development Studies / Health
Management / Project Management as recognized by SAQA. At least a
minimum of three (3) years’ extensive at supervisory / managerial (Level 7/8)
within Strategic Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Environment. A relevant
postgraduate qualification (e.g. Public Health, Programme / Project
Management) will be an added advantage. Knowledge of Strategic Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation mechanisms, Public Service Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Municipal Finance Management Act
(MFMA), Treasury Regulations and other local government legislation. Must
possess the following skills: facilitation, coordination, presentation,
communication, analytical and problem-solving, report writing and stakeholder
management. Proficiency in Microsoft suite is desirable, with strong working
capability in Excel, Word and PowerPoint. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Coordinate operational planning calendar, templates and processes for
developing, consolidating and annually reviewing the Department’s Annual
Operational Plans across programmes and districts, per provincial and national
timelines and directives. Facilitate translation of Strategic Plan and APP
commitments, ensuring coherence and alignment to departmental priorities.
Support integration with resource planning, including human resource
implications. Track and review implementation through monitoring
engagements, consolidated status updates and identification of bottlenecks
190
requiring management action. Compile analytical planning and implementation
reports for management structures, including EXCO, committees and oversight
forums, and provide inputs for quarterly and annual performance reporting.
Maintain planning tools, templates and systems, ensuring complete, accurate
and consistent data. Coordinate alignment with municipal Integrated
Development Plan priorities, translating agreed health commitments into
implementable activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/267 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/770
SALARY : R413 121 - R472 359 per annum
CENTRE : Bethal Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows for
the required registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) in the relevant profession (where applicable) (2026). Grade 1: SA
Qualified employees: None after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed
Community Service, as required in SA. Foreign Qualified employees: One (1)
year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in SA. Hospital experience
and extensive knowledge in Occupational Health and Safety will be an added
advantage. Good interpersonal Skills, written, verbal and presentation Skills.
Accuracy and attention to detail. Ability to work under pressure. Ability and
willingness to travel. Good interpersonal relationship, Leadership skill. Valid
drivers’ licence.
DUTIES : Ensure patient care during imaging for optimal diagnostic purpose: Explain
procedures to patients, prepare patient for imaging, Assist and position patient
for imaging, perform imaging. Practice radiation protection to minimize
radiation dose to staff, patients and general public: Establish LMC status of
female patients, adhere to radiation safety standards (secure area, lead aprons
etc), Apply correct radiation/exposure factors (correct dosages), Exercise
clinical responsibility to ensure optimal diagnostic imaging: Interpret clinical
history of patients to determine the correct procedure, ensure correct
positioning of patient to minimize radiation exposure to the patient, ensure
correct identification of patient image (name, lead markers etc.). Participate in
Education and training programs for continuous professional development and
quality service delivery: Practical training and evaluation of students Implement
quality assurance programs for quality service delivery, Check/test radiation
equipment and report faults, apply reject analysis, Adhere to policies and
protocols.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/268 : DIETICIAN GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/772 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 121 - R472 359 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
Bethal Hospital
Piet Retief Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus BSc Dietetics Degree. Registration with the
HPCSA as a Dietician (2026). Grade 1: SA qualified employees: none
experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where
applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community Service as
required in SA. Foreign qualified employees: one (1) year relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable)
in respect of employees who performed Community Service as required in
South Africa. Hospital experience and extensive knowledge in Occupational
Health and Safety will be an added advantage. Good interpersonal Skills,
191
written, verbal and presentation Skills. Accuracy and attention to detail. Ability
to work under pressure. Ability and willingness to travel. Good interpersonal
relationship, Leadership skill. Valid drivers’ licence.
DUTIES : Render preventative Nutrition Services (including growth monitoring,
education, etc) in the surrounding clinics. Diet prescriptions for patients. Help
with food management of the hospital. Participate in quality Improvement
Programmes. Rendering of nutritional counselling services. Prescription and
authorization of special diet products. Implementation of guidelines for the
maintenance of healthy nutritional practices. Compilation and implementation
of information pamphlets on nutrition. Plan and implement a suitable
programme for an individual or group.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/269 : HEALTH PROMOTION PRACTITIONER REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/773
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Nhlazatshe 6 Clinic (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus an appropriate and recognized
National Diploma in Health Promotion or equivalent qualification. At least three
(03) years’ appropriate experience in the field of health promotion. Good
interpersonal skills. Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability to
work under pressure. Sound communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical
skills on problem solving, decision making and organizational skills. Computer
literacy particularly MS, Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implement health promotion programmes, strategies, interventions and
campaigns at facility and community level. Plan and provide information,
education and communication activities. Promote community, inter-sectoral
and non-governmental participation in health promotion programmes and
interventions. Establish household community components of integrated
management of childhood illness, healthy lifestyle interventions and health
promoting schools. Participate in Local forums to build relationships across
sectors and to identify opportunities for health advocacy. Distribute IEC
materials and resources within the sub-district. Support health sector initiatives
in the sub-district, including those initiated by local authorities, schools,
workplaces and other settings. Submit reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/270 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/775 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Amajuba Memorial Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/ Grade 12 plus six (6) years’ relevant experience in Human
Resource Management or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management, Public Administration / Management as recognized by
SAQA with three (3) years’ experience in the post of Personnel Practitioner /
Principal Personnel Officer (Level 7). A least a minimum of three (3) PERSAL
courses is inherent requirement. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL including
interpreting PERSAL reports. Skills and competencies: In-depth knowledge of
policies, systems, processes, procedures and best practices pertaining to
Recruitment and Selection, Condition of Services, Employees Benefits,
Administration, Performance Management, Human Resource Development
and Skills development. A good understanding and knowledge of the PFMA,
Public Service Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment and Employment
Equity Act. Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA), Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations and 245 Treasury Regulations. Computer literacy
particularly MS, Excel, Outlook & Word. Good interpersonal relationship,
networking, written and verbal communication skills at levels. Logical and
innovative thinking abilities and leadership skills. Valid driver’s license.
192
DUTIES : Co-ordination and compilation of reports regarding the filing of posts. Monitor
the development and review of the system of administering processes in the
area of HR strategy and the management of demand and supply of human
resources. Monitor and advise the process of recruitment and selection within
the Department. Development of service in the standards in the area of
responsibility. Monitor the implementation of Operational Plan of the unit.
Manage staff in terms of the approved Performance Management and
Development system: Conduct performance midterm reviews and annual
performance assessment of staff. Ensure compliance and effective
implementation of employment equity and skill development. Facilitate
processing of pension benefits and leave payouts. Create and maintain the
complete and accurate Human Resource records. Approve PERSAL
Transactions captured. Utilize resources effectively, adhere to Batho Pele
Principle and service standard.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/271 : HEALTH INFORMATION OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/776
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District Office, Ermelo
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in DHIS or
Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Statistic / Information Management as
recognized by SAQA with three (3) relevant experience. Advanced computer
literacy. Presentation and data analysis skills. Extensive knowledge of Health
Information systems. Ability to work under pressure. Knowledge of public
health indicators and data elements. Advanced knowledge in the management
of registers and all relevant source documents. Knowledge of data quality
assessment tools and methods. Skills in data consolidation, verification and
validation process. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Conduct database management of DHIS in the hospital and other relevant
systems. Conduct facility data and performance review meetings. Conduct
data verification, validation and consolidation of hospital data from all sources.
Timeously capture data on the Web-DHIS and upload into the system. Support
DHIS version updates and workshops relating to new versions. Support
implementation of National, Provincial and District Health Information systems.
Conduct data quality audit for the facility and quality improvement plans.
Monitor implementation of health information policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/272 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/777
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Carolina Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent qualification plus three
(3) years relevant experience in Finance or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7)
Finance / Logistic / Management Accounting / Financial Management as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge of relevant legislation/ regulations and
policies as well as transversal financial system in Government such as BAS
and LOGIS. Knowledge of legal framework and any other policies. Sound
interpersonal and communication skills. Computer literacy. Self-driven, result
orientated, motivated, meet deadlines and acceptance of responsibility.
DUTIES : To render provisioning services. Maintain sound provisioning and logistical
systems and processes. Maintain updated provisioning records. Manage and
maintain the logistical and warehouse administration systems. Maintain and
control consumable stores. Issuing of consumable store items. Monitor and
control of the adherence to sound accounting. Monitor and control all payments
on the transversal systems. Ensure correct allocation of expenditure and
revenue. Draw financial reports as well as preparing financial statement,
193
projections and provide meaningful interpretation reports. The incumbent will
be expected to assist in the budget formulation, compiling of cash flow budget
as well as the monthly reports. Attend monthly meetings and operational
meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/273 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING REF
NO: MPDOH/MAY/26/795 (X18 POSTS)
SALARY : R337 359 – R397 392 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
Amajuba Memorial Hospital (X1 Post)
Bethal Hospital (X1 Post)
Embhuleni Hospital (X1 Post)
Piet Retief Hospital (X3 Posts)
Mooiplaas Clinic (X1 Post)
Vukuzakhe Clinic (X2 Posts)
Nhlazatshe Clinic (X2 Posts)
Paulina Morapedi CHC (X1 Post)
Sakhile Clinic (X2 Posts)
Nthoroane Clinic (X1 Post)
Morgenzon Clinic (X1 Post)
Elsie Ballot Hospital (X1 Post)
Ermelo Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the SANC
in terms of Government Notice (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing)
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse (2026). Ability to function independently
and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem
solving and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/274 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC) GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY26/797 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R275 340 – R310 422 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District:
Ezamokuhle Clinic
MN Cindi (Thussiville) Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus registered as Post- Basic Pharmacist
Assistant with South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) (2026). Valid work
permit will be required from non-South Africans. Skills in terms of consultations.
Knowledge of current health and public service legislation, regulations and
policies. Good communication, problem solving and conflict management
194
skills. Professionalism, accuracy, flexibility, independence and ethical
behaviour.
DUTIES : Ensure proper receipt recording and storage of all medicines and consumables
according to standard operating procedures handled in the area of operations.
Ensure responsibility and accountability for safe patient medicine use.
Compounding and preparation of any medicines as delegated. Promote correct
evaluation prescriptions and legal processing of medicine prescription,
stocktaking and distribution of supplies to the client. Promotion of Public
Health. Ensure accurate recording of statistics and administrative requirements
as required by policy.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 17/275 : ARTISAN (PRODUCTION) GRADE A: PLUMBER REF NO:
MPDOH/MAY/26/798
SALARY : R253 341 – R281 172 per annum
CENTRE : Amajuba Memorial Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum of Grade 10-12 or equivalent qualifications plus Trade Test Certificate
in Plumbing. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and experience of painting
repairs, maintenance, and new paint works. Knowledge of painting codes and
standards. Knowledge of Occupational Health & Safety Regulation. In physical
sound and healthy condition. Prepared to perform overtime and standby duties,
including weekends and public as well as over peak periods, as and when
needed. Requirements and skills: Proven experience as a plumber. Excellent
knowledge of plumbing material and how to select, mix and apply them. Solid
knowledge of commercial and/or construction plumbing techniques. Aptitude in
using appropriate tools. Good basic math skills. Manual dexterity with excellent
balance to work on scaffolding, ladders etc. Conscientious with great attention
to detail. High school diploma; successful completion of an apprenticeship.
Frequently asked questions.
DUTIES : To maintain the plumbing at Health facilities by inspecting and undertaking
plumbing jobs including reporting thereon. Preparation and Plumbing of Health
facilities. Preparation and Repairs and maintenance of Plumbing to Health
facilities. Identifies sources of plumbing deterioration and complete repairs
according to the job cards. Selection and specification of materials and
materials estimates. Maintains accurate records on materials and labour used.
Maintains inventory of tools. Equipment, and materials. Inspects jobs upon
completion and ensure areas are kept clean at all times. Works with
supervisors to complete projects at hand. Identify need for repairs &
maintenance to facilities following established inspection procedures.
Timeously responds to emergency calls as needed. Performs preventative
maintenance on tools and equipment. Carry out work and operates tools and
equipment according to Occupational Health and Safety regulations. Perform
Standby and/overtime duties when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
195
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/276 : STATE VETERINARIAN: PCR PROCEDURES/ RESIDUES AND
TOXICOLOGY VETERINARY SERVICES (STELLENBOSCH) REF NO: AGR
25/2026 ORGANISATION
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate BVSc/ BVMCh qualification; Registration as a Veterinarian with
the S.A Veterinary Council; A minimum of 1-year post-qualification experience;
A valid code B driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Working knowledge of the following: Managing technical
personnel, Special interest poultry pathology and disease diagnostics; Interest
in molecular biology, toxicology and clinical pathology; Animal diseases
especially the macro- and microscopic pathology of diseases (veterinary
pathology); Laboratory diagnostics in all disciplines with emphasis on infectious
diseases and zoonoses; Advising on control, treatment and prevention of
animal diseases diagnosed; Monitor the health of sheep and or chicken flock
at the laboratory, including treating sick animals and preventative treatment
e.g. vaccinations; Personnel management and supervision for technical staff
in laboratory sections; Laboratory information management systems (LIMS);
Management skills required for the supervision of the laboratory sections
including advice and guidance regarding the purchases of reagents and other
requirements, within the allocated budget; Principles of a quality management
system based on ISO/IEC 17025; Above average verbal and written
communication skills; Computer literacy in Microsoft Office; Organisational
skills, practical, precise and ability to work independently and as part of a team;
Ability to perform full post mortem examination and to recognize and interpret
post mortem lessons.
DUTIES : Responsible to render a Veterinary Laboratory Diagnostic service; Populate
data bases (e.g. LIMS) to provide veterinary statistics for national and
international planning; Keep up to date with regard to the applicable prescripts,
policies, procedures, technologies and new developments to be able to render
an efficient and effective Veterinary Diagnostic laboratory service.
ENQUIRIES : Dr G Msiza Tel No: (021) 808 5001
POST 17/277 : CELLAR TECHNOLOGIST: AGRO-PROCESSING SUPPORT
(ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 02/2026
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
196
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma (equivalent or higher qualification) in
Oenology; A valid Integrated Production of Wine (IPW) certificate; A valid Code
C1 (or higher) driving license with a valid Professional Driving Permit; A valid
Forklift license; A minimum of 1 year relevant winemaking experience.
Competencies: Working knowledge and understanding of the following: The
production of wine, different wine styles (brandy, port, sherry, rose, white, red,
sweet, Cap Classique). This should include grape ripeness monitoring, grape
receival with pressing and destemming equipment, alcoholic fermentation in
various vessels of stainless steel, amphora, terra cotta and oak, conducting
malolactic fermentation, filtration of wine, and all relevant wine analysis during
the various winemaking processes; Able to perform all relevant and important
laboratory techniques (Volatile acidity, pH, titratable acidity, residual sugar,
sulpur dioxide); Full operation of a wine cellar. Skills in the following: Good
communication and information management skills; Good interpersonal skills;
Training and presentation skills; Planning and organising skills; Project
management; Innovating and creative thinking; Problem solving and decision
making.
DUTIES : Liaise with winemaker on servicing of cellar equipment under supervision;
Liaise with and assist assistant winemaker and winemaker to facilitate cellar
administration such as WineMS / SAWIS and stock take; Ensure the stock of
the chemical store is up to date and order as necessary; Assist the Cellar
Manager with human resource management administration; Assist with
general administration of the cellar; Assist the Cellar Manager with the
implementation of the cellar wastewater; Provide assistance with
implementation of pre-harvest program; Continuous evaluation of the
functioning of wine machinery equipment and ensuring the on-time servicing
thereof; Provide assistance to the winemaker during harvest by means of:
coordination of harvesting dates and production process of all wine styles
produced; Provide assistance with stability of wines, filtration and bottling of
wines; Provide assistance to winemaker in terms of quality management of the
wines by means of administration and coordination of wine analysis through
SAWIS and IPW; Ensure accreditation systems of the cellar are in place and
according to SA Wine Industry standards; Provide assistance to winemaker in
terms of wine laboratory practical’s with students; Provide assistance with
administration, services and purchases for wine cellar; Experience in a wine
cellar working with the production of wine; Relevant experience with IPW
accreditation; Practical experience with WineMS, SAWIS, SARS (including
both VMP and SVM warehouses); Experience with winery equipment such as
sorting tables, weighing scales, peristaltic pumps, presses, crushers and
destemming equipment, filtration units, and servicing of such equipment;
WSET Level 2; Able to perform all relevant laboratory techniques; Training /
practical experience in WineMS / SAWIS / SARS and IPW.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Geldenhuys Tel No: (021) 808 5483
POST 17/278 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: AGRICULTURAL PARTNERSHIP FOR
YOUTH DEVELOPMENT (ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 17/2026
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year relevant experience; A valid (Code B or
higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Working knowledge of the following: Relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts
and procedures; Financial regulations and instructions to ensure smooth
administrative functioning of the financial administration and procurement;
knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working environment;
Disciplinary code and procedures; People management; Skills in the following:
Networking and presentation; Communication (written and verbal); Planning
and organising; Analytical; Database management; Report writing;
Interpersonal skills; Problem solving.
DUTIES : Coordination agricultural partnership for youth development projects and
internship; Administer internships, and the Agricultural Partnership for Youth
Development and Internship and bursaries programmes; Perform
administrative functions; People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Constable Tel No: (021) 808 5044 / Ms I Stander Tel No: (021) 808 5448
197
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/279 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: DEDAT
19/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-Degree in Financial Management at NQF level 7
(equivalent or higher); A minimum of 3 years relevant supervisory experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), National Treasury Regulations and Provincial Treasury Instructions;
Public Service Act, 1994, as amended; Basic Conditions of Employment Act;
Relevant systems (Basic Accounting System and Logistical Information
System). Skills needed: Written and verbal communication; Proven computer
literacy; Numeracy and literacy; Project management; Accounting, finance and
audit.
DUTIES : Collection and recording of revenue: Cashier, banking service and electronic
payments; Debt management; Monitoring and reporting on revenue;
Expenditure management: Compensation of employees; Goods and services;
Transfers and subsidies; Reporting; Supervise employees to ensure an
effective financial accounting service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Abrahams Tel No: (021) 483 9138
POST 17/280 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: DEDAT 20/2026
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year administrative experience. Competencies:
Working knowledge of the following: Public Finance Management Act; Supply
Chain Management; Financial Management; Procurement prescripts. Skills
needed: Communication (written and verbal) skills; Report writing skills; Proven
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Excellent
report writing, Organising and Planning; Problem Solving; Analytical.
DUTIES : Provide the following services: Demand management, Acquisition
management, Contract management, Logistics and payments, Filing and
database management; General administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Davids Tel No: (021) 483 9148
198
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/281 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER: POLLUTION PREVENTION AND
REGULATORY SERVICES (POLLUTION AND CHEMICALS
MANAGEMENT) REF NO: EADP 10/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R636 978 - R728 646 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year B-degree/honors (equivalent or higher qualification) in
environmental management, natural or physical sciences, or engineering; a
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience in environmental management; a
valid (Code B or higher) driving license. Competencies: Knowledge, proven
experience, and understanding of the following: The National Environmental
Management Act as well as pollution management-related guidelines, policies
and best practices; Environmental management, especially related to
integrated pollution management and application of environmental legislation;
The functioning and responsibilities of the three spheres of government as it
pertains to environmental pollution management. Compliance monitoring and
enforcement, with respect to statutory obligations (e.g. NEMA); Financial
Management and public procurement prescripts and processes; Human
resource management; Methodologies and techniques for the evaluation and
monitoring of pollution impacts; Skills in the following: Supervision of staff;
numeracy; computer literacy in the MS Office package (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, etc.); communication skills (written and verbal), including
presentation skills; report writing; planning and implementation; project
planning and management; data analysis; analytical and creative thinking to
address complex environmental challenges; research; and time management.
DUTIES : Implement pollution case management, including investigation, compliance
monitoring, and stakeholder engagement; manage and administer financial
and human resources and provide strategic inputs into business planning;
actively engage, support, and provide input into transversal initiatives and
forums relevant to pollution and chemicals management, including
implementation of the Western Cape Sustainable Water Protection Plan; and
manage and provide specialist comment on various legislation, policies, norms
and standards, EIAs and action plans, etc. in terms of avoiding or minimizing
pollution impacts on the environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Catherine Bill Tel No: (021) 483 2760
POST 17/282 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: BANKING REF NO: EADP 08/2026
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government.
199
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); a minimum of 1 year of experience in a related field.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Have a strong financial
background specifically in public sector finance. Have a good understanding of
the Public Finance Management Act as well as the Treasury Regulations and
Finance Instructions; Knowledge and understanding of relevant National and
Provincial legislation, policy prescripts, regulations, standards and procedures;
Knowledge of transversal public sector accounting systems; Knowledge and
understanding of modern systems of governance and administration;
Knowledge and understanding of public service procedures, processes, and
systems. Skills in the following: Numeracy, literacy, language skills, Accounting,
Finance and audit, information technology, Formal training, financial analysis,
computer literacy (MS Office Package), data analysis skills, and people skills.
DUTIES : Ensure fund requisitions, cash flow, transfer and revenue payments, and bank
reconciliation are performed. Oversee the cashier function, storing &
safeguarding of face-value forms, financial records, and reconciliation of the
revenue register. Maintenance of the principal ledger accounts and clearing of
online bank transactions; supervisory tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Van der Merwe Tel No: (021) 483 3369
POST 17/283 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER (PRODUCTION LEVEL): DEVELOPMENT
MANAGEMENT REGION 3, REF NO: EADP 09/2026
SALARY : R357 597 - R395 352 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary National Diploma/B-Degree in Environmental
Management, Natural or Environmental Sciences or related field; registered as
a Candidate Environmental Assessment Practitioner (EAP) or Registered as
an EAP with the Environmental Assessment Practitioners Association of South
Africa (EAPASA); already registered; or meets the requirements for registration
and have either already applied for registration and paid the prescribed
application and registration fee (appointment will be conditional to actual
registration with EAPASA by a specified date) A valid driving license (Code B
or higher). Competencies: Knowledge in the following: Balanced environmental
knowledge including biophysical knowledge of the functioning of ecosystems,
interactions and other environmental aspects; Methodologies and techniques
for evaluation of environmental impact assessments; Methodologies for the
evaluation of environmental management programme reports, as well as
environmental monitoring, audit and ECO reports; Practical implementation of
environmental policies, guidelines, norms and standards; Environmental
management systems; practical implementation of environmental legislation,
policies, norms, and guidelines; integrated environmental management; EIA
process applicable in the Western Cape. Skills needed: Literacy; Computer
Literacy (MS programs); Information technology (GIS tools, etc.); Language
proficiency (at least two of the three official languages of the Western Cape
Province); Communication, project management, report writing, analytical
skills, and time management.
DUTIES : Maintain quality and productivity with regards to evaluation of applications in
terms of the relevant environmental legislation; Implementation of the
compliance monitoring and auditing strategy for environmental authorisations;
Maintain quality and productivity with regards to the processing of post-
decision reports and applications, for example, amendment applications,
Environmental Audit reports and ECO reports; Maintain quality and productivity
with regard to provision of comment on assigned non-applications; Leadership
in assigned projects; Qualifications with respect to environmental
management, natural or environmental sciences or related field.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Swanepoel Tel No: (044) 814 2008
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026, 17:00 PM
200
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the advert for the POST 16/309: Professional
Nurse Grade 1 To 3 (General) (FAMILY Medicine) (X3 Posts), George Regional
Hospital, Salary Grade 1: R337 359 per annum, Grade 2: R411 978 per annum,
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum Centre: George Regional Hospital, advertised
in the Public Service Vacancy 16 dated 08 May 2026 with Ref No: Post 16/309
has been cancelled.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/284 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: GRADE 1 RADIOGRAPHY (MEDICAL IMAGING
SERVICES)
Directorate: Health Technology
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 087 263 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
to meet the individual’s needs).
CENTRE : Goodwood, Cape Town, Western Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with HPCSA as a Radiographer. Registration with Professions
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Radiographer. Experience: A
minimum of 3 years’ appropriate experience after registration with HPCSA as
a Radiographer. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. Willingness to travel within the province. Physically fit and able to
perform on-site inspections of related medical imaging infrastructure and
equipment. Competencies (Knowledge and Skills): Strong leadership,
managerial, and organizational skills, with proven ability to coordinate multi
level radiographic services and provide strategic and operational direction.
Planning and analytical skills, including strategic, operational, and contingency
planning, as well as the ability to monitor, evaluate, and improve service
delivery performance. Effective problem solving and decision-making skills,
with the ability to work independently, adapt to changing healthcare
environments, and resolve complex service delivery challenges. Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills, including consultation, negotiation,
facilitation, presentation, and stakeholder engagement at institutional, regional,
and provincial levels. Quality assurance and information management skills,
including the ability to analyse service data, generate management statistics,
establish performance indicators, and support evidence-based decision
making. Computer literacy and reporting skills relevant to management,
monitoring, and evaluation of radiographic medical services. Knowledge of
medical imaging related regulations/policies/acts, etc. such as SAHPRA,
National Health Act, OHSA Computer Literacy (Ms. Word, PPT, Excel, Copilot,
etc.)
DUTIES : Provide strategic and operational leadership for provincial radiographic
medical services, including the development, implementation, and monitoring
of strategic, operational, and service delivery plans aligned with national and
provincial health priorities. Coordinate, advise, and support health institutions
and regions on best practice radiographic service delivery, including the
planning, commissioning, upgrading, and optimisation of radiographic
departments and services. Ensure effective governance and regulatory
compliance through the development, implementation, and monitoring of
relevant legislation, policies, protocols, and guidelines, including radiation
protection, occupational health and safety, and patient safety standards.
Monitor, evaluate, and improve service quality and performance by conducting
service delivery assessments, satisfaction surveys, analysing trends,
implementing corrective interventions, and ensuring compliance with norms
and standards. Provide expert technical advice on radiographic equipment
acquisition, maintenance, and lifecycle management, including support to
supply chain processes, tender specifications, and equitable distribution of
resources. Engage and liaise with key stakeholders at institutional, regional,
provincial, and national levels, including engineering and technical support
services, to ensure integrated and sustainable radiographic service delivery.
201
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Zigayi, email: Ziyanda.Ziygayi@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/285 : PHARMACY SUPERVISOR GRADE 1
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Du Noon Community Day Centre, Southern/Western Sub-Structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
SAPC as Pharmacist. Experience: A minimum of 3 years appropriate
experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the SAPC. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to register as a Responsible Pharmacist.
Willingness to tutor staff. Valid Driver’s License (Code B/EB or equivalent).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of National and Provincial Health
Policies and Pharmaceutical Acts and Laws. Ability to work accurately under
pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Sound
Management, communication, interpersonal and conflict handling skills, and
computer literacy.
DUTIES : Effective medicine supply management (procurement, storage, control and
distribution of pharmaceuticals) for all pharmaceuticals for the facility and
linked services in the community-based platform. Effective monitoring of
pharmaceutical expenditure, implementation and evaluation of budgetary
control measures. Manage the Chronic Dispensing Unit (CDU) and Private
Provider processes. Ensure adherence to minimum standards for dispensing
as well as accessibility to medication and pharmaceutical care to patients.
Human Resource Management which includes disciplinary processes,
performance management processes and staff development. Promotion of
rational medicine use by implementing provincial policies. Compile and update
Standard Operating Procedures. Represent the pharmacy department at
management level (meetings, strategic planning) and allocate pharmacy
resources for research when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Hall Tel No: (021) 200-4501
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to do a practical/ written and oral assessment.
POST 17/286 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL): FAMILY MEDICINE (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(4 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Metro East Training complex: Stellenbosch University
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s license. It will be expected
of the successful candidate to participate in a system of remunerated
commuted overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (i.e.,
MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and internet research). Excellent verbal and
written communication skills. Strong interpersonal and time-management
skills. Good interpersonal and time-management skills. Ability to work
effectively within a multidisciplinary team. Appropriate experience in South
African District Health Services.
DUTIES : Clinical service provision. Participate in the Teaching program. Research and
Professional Development (incl. completion of MMED). Effective Clinical
Administration in patient records and patient reports. Support leadership and
quality improvement initiatives within healthcare services.
ENQUIRIES : Dr W Viljoen Tel No: (021) 852-4700
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of four (4) years.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position as personal and they are
entitled to pay progression. It may become necessary to second or transfer
202
staff to another hospital or institution during their training period; staff will be
consulted prior to any such decision being implemented. Registrars will
function across health facilities as per an agreed programme, including
rotations within an assigned training complex (Helderberg Hospital, Eerste
River Hospital, Tygerberg Hospital, Karl Bremer Hospital, Khayelitsha CHC,
Kraaifontein CHC, Delft CHC, Elsies River CHC and primary healthcare
clinics). Employees in service who elect to retain pension benefits will be
required to resign upon completion of registrarship should they not be
appointed to an advertised Specialist post. Applicants must indicate whether
they have any bursary obligations. The Department of Health subscribes to the
principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disabilities are encouraged
to apply. Specific Registrar posts will be identified under the Affirmative Action
programme to ensure representivity in line with applicable procedures.
Preference will be given to South African citizens or permanent residents with
a valid identity document. Applicants with temporary residence status will not
be considered. Registrars will be required to register as postgraduates with the
University of Stellenbosch in accordance with the discipline's yearbook and
guidelines. Should registration with the Higher Education Institution (HEI) as a
student be discontinued for any reason, the Registrar appointment will
automatically terminate. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements may apply on condition that proof of application and
payment of prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted
on or before the interview date. This concession applies only to first-time
registrations or change in registration status.
POST 17/287 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Wellington CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. One-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid
driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of general
medical and surgical conditions on hospital and PHC level and Knowledge
applicable to South African TB and HIV care guidelines. Comprehensive
evidence-based, direct patient-centred Clinical Service Provision in the District
Health Service. Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook etc.) and good
interpersonal, organizational and teamwork skills. Ability and willingness to do
outreach services to clinics throughout the Drakenstein Sub district (including
Saron/Gouda), guiding health care colleagues in managing difficult PHC cases.
DUTIES : Provide quality outpatient care to patients in Drakenstein SD Primary
Healthcare facilities. Provide an Outreach and Support service to PHC facilities
in the Drakenstein Sub district (including Saron & Gouda) Actively participate
in skills transfer, training, and academic opportunities relevant to the post.
203
Active involvement in the clinical governance of Drakenstein Sub district
facilities as required. No compulsory Commuted Overtime (COT) duties.
ENQUIRIES : Dr P van Wyk (Family Physician) or Dr R Gaffoor (Clinical Manager Tel No:
(021) 877-400
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 17/288 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PACS/RISK (E HEALTH CLINICAL SYSTEMS)
Directorate: Information Technology
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate three-year National Diploma
or Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in clinical information systems,
health informatics, or information management. Appropriate experience
managing and leading clinician-facing digital health systems and programmes.
Proven experience in the implementation and operational management of
clinical systems and/or specialised clinical platforms. Appropriate experience
managing complex clinical workflows, interoperability, and healthcare
standards in a regulated environment. Proven experience in project and
programme management across the full system lifecycle, including
procurement, implementation, and operational support. Experience working
within the public health sector or similarly regulated healthcare environments.
Inherent requirements of the job: In-depth knowledge of clinical workflows,
particularly within diagnostic and specialist clinical services. Strong
understanding of digital imaging systems, PACS/RIS/VNA and related clinical
technologies. Knowledge of international healthcare interoperability standards.
Ability to work closely with clinicians, technical teams, vendors, and
governance structures. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to
travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong clinical systems and health
informatics knowledge. Project and programme management expertise in
clinical IT environments. Knowledge of IT, clinical and medico-legal
governance frameworks. Experience with SCM, contract management, and
SLA oversight. Excellent stakeholder engagement, communication, and
negotiation skills. Strong analytical, problem-solving, and decision-making
abilities. Ability to lead multidisciplinary teams in complex, high-risk
environments.
DUTIES : Lead and manage the eHealth Clinical Systems programme, including
clinician-facing digital health initiatives mandated by the executive. Oversee
the planning, implementation, and operational management of PACS, RIS,
VNA and other specialised clinical systems. Apply and enforce IT, clinical, and
medico-legal governance across all eHealth clinical projects and operations.
Manage procurement, contracts, and service level agreements in collaboration
with SCM, SITA, and strategic partners. Ensure compliance with national and
provincial policies, healthcare standards, and regulatory requirements. Provide
strategic input into the digital health strategy, clinical interoperability, analytics,
and innovation initiatives (including AI-enabled clinical solutions). Lead,
manage, and develop the eHealth Clinical Systems team, including
performance management, capacity building, and succession planning.
Manage budgets, financial controls, and reporting for the eHealth Clinical
Systems portfolio. Act as a key liaison between IT, clinical services, governance
structures, and external partners. Collaborate with the broader IT ecosystem
stakeholders and managers to implement departmental digital strategy.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dlamini Tel No: (021) 483-8945
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
204
POST 17/289 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY) (WARD
5A & 5B MALE ADMISSIONS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212). OR A 4-year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification as mentioned above. Or a post graduate diploma (R635)
accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid code (B/EB) drivers’ licence. Willingness to work shifts, after
hours, public holidays, day or night and standby duties. Willingness to rotate to
other wards when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ensure that
clinical nursing practice rendered by the nursing team and promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Demonstrate a good understanding of HR and financial policies and practices.
Computer Literacy in the MS package (Wors, Excel and PowerPoint).
Knowledge of FBU functions and management (ability to work collaboratively
within FBUs). Appropriate experience working with in the Acute Psychiatric
Services.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate the implementation of holistic, comprehensive,
specialised nursing care in the Psychiatry complex, in conjunction with team
members, within a professional and legal framework. Ensure the maintenance
of quality care standards in the Psychiatry services. Manage, supervise, guide
staff and keep records and statistics as required. Manage assets,
consumables, and services effectively. Manage and support education, in-
service training, and orientation and practice development initiatives in the
area. Maintain professional growth and ethical standards. Provide effective
support to nursing services and hospital management by managing the
hospital after hours, when the need arises.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ST Mndende Tel No: (021) 370 -1400 / Mr M Banzi Tel No: (021) 370 -1248
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/290 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER: NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE) (X2
POSTS)
West Coast District
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Sub-district:
Malmesbury CDC (X1 Post)
Moorreesburg Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and
Care, accredited with the SANC (R48) OR a 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing
(R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary Care Nursing.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate /
recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate / recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year
205
post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Oversee
Satellite Clinics and mobile health services. Willingness to work overtime when
necessary and willingness to support other clinics in the Sub-district.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Information management with regards to
PHC indicators. Quality assurance knowledge. COPC principles and
interpretation. Legislation of Ideal Clinic and Office of Health standards
compliance Good organizing skills. Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel).
Good interpersonal and communication skills.
DUTIES : Effective and holistic management of patients on PHC level regarding acute
services, Assessment and taking of medical history, physical examination,
diagnoses, prescription of treatment. Effective management and execution of
integrated Child Health and Youth Services including school health services.
Effective management and execution of integrated maternal & woman’s health
services according to the guidelines. Effective management and execution of
integrated HAST services. Provide holistic management and leadership in the
PHC facilities and coordinate mobile services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. RA Christoffels Tel No: (022) 482-2729
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/291 : CHIEF PHYSIOTHERAPIST GRADE 1
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R598 260 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Hospital Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Physiotherapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Physiotherapist. Experience: A minimum of 3 years appropriate
experience as a Physiotherapist after registration with the HPCSA as a
Physiotherapist. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to travel. Willingness to work overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate, extensive clinical experience as a
Physiotherapist in an acute and specialist/tertiary hospital setting with
appropriate experience in Neurology, Neurosurgery, Orthopaedics,
Cardiopulmonary and intensive care. Appropriate managerial experience.
Knowledge of applicable health legislation, relevant Acts and Public Service
Policies and Procedures. Good problem solving, conflict resolution,
interpersonal, communication, leadership and organisational skills.
DUTIES : Promote, manage and develop physiotherapy services at DP Marais and
Brooklyn Chest Hospitals including mobility, strength and endurance, neuro
rehabilitation and chest physiotherapy. Assist in the management, policy
formation, strategic planning process of unit and Physiotherapy Department,
and deputize for the head of Department when required. Supervise and
develop personnel in the team, including mentoring physiotherapist at a more
junior level and undertaking quarterly evaluations for staff. Manage physical
and human resources in the unit and co-ordinate all administrative activities
regarding the patients in the unit. Supervise, train and co-ordinate student
placements; undertake and participate in appropriate research and
investigations in area of work.
ENQUIRIES : Dr JT Riele Tel No: (021) 508-7446
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/292 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (GENERAL) (MEDICAL PAVILION)
SALARY : R571 161 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Or A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Or A
3 year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) AS A General Nurse. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: A
minimum of 7 years appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
206
requirements of the job: Perform after-hour, weekend and public holiday duties
for the department and the hospital. Night duty hospital allocation as required.
Competencies (knowledge / skills): Principles of Management: Supervisory,
leadership, problem solving, conflict resolution and interpersonal /
communication skills. Ability to function independently as well as part of the
multi-disciplinary team. Good organisational skills and the ability to function
under pressure Effective communication, interpersonal, leadership, decision
making and conflict resolution skills Knowledge of Nursing legislation related
legal and ethical nursing practices and framework. Human Resources, Labour
relations legislation and Financial Management, including computer literacy
(i.e. Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Able to cope well under
pressure.
DUTIES : Motivate, encourage and lead all nursing teams positively. Effectively manage
financial, and human resources in all aspects of the job description.
Responsible for the co-ordination and delivery of quality nursing care within the
relevant department; participation and implementation of audits and planned
improvement initiatives. Participate in formulation, monitoring and
implementation of policies, guidelines, standards, procedures and regulations
pertaining to nursing care within the relevant Department. Provide effective
support and management of human, material and financial resources, as well
as Functional Business FBU management principles. Manage staff
performance, training and personal development of self and subordinates
including management of underperformance and grievances.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Moodley Tel No: (021) 404-2074
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/293 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MENTAL HEALTH)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Theewaterskloof Sub-district, PHC Support and Outreach
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree
in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Post-
basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the
SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science (R212). OR A 4-year Bachelor
Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC
in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience in
Psychiatry after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned
above or a post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental
Health Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. Willingness to rotate and consult patients at different facilities within
the Sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good Interpersonal and
communication skills. Computer literacy (Microsoft Word). Knowledge and
insight of relevant legislation and policy related to Mental Illness within the
public sector. Ability to consult with clients who require mental health
counselling.
DUTIES : Actively participate in the clinical management and nursing care to patients
with Mental Health problems within the Sub-district. Provide support and
capacity development to PHC personnel for Sub-district level services and
students and peers. Promote community development and participation in
Mental Health care delivery. Liaise with other role players. Conduct research
related to Mental Health and service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Human Tel No: (028) 814-3717
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of stipulated registration requirements,
may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on
condition that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant
council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
207
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is
only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the
post-basic qualification in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science or a post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing.
POST 17/294 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: NEPHROLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with SANC, in terms of R212 in Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Nephrology or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care
Nursing: General. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or (R171)
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited
with the SANC in Critical Care Nursing (Adult) or Nephrology. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts including weekends, public
holidays and night duty. Willingness to rotate within Nephrology unit. Ability to
lift and turn patients, stand for long hours and lift heavy equipment.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge and understanding of
nursing and health service-related acts, legislation, policies and practices.
Problem solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills. Basic computer
skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and use of Internet.
DUTIES : Provide an optimal, holistic, specialised Nursing Care within set standards and
within a professional, legal framework as a professional nurse in Nephrology.
Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilise human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Participate in research and training and development of community,
staff and students to achieve optimal health care and rehabilitation of trauma
and emergency patients. Deliver an effective outreach service. Assist with
administrative duties, e.g. data collation and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Sutcliffe Tel No: (021) 404-2092
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates may be subjected to a compulsory competency test. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification or post-graduate qualification in the relevant specialty.
POST 17/295 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: ICU ORGAN
TRANSPLANT COORDINATOR)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical
Care Nursing: General (R212) or 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
208
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited in Critical Care Nursing
(Adult). Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/ recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of this
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or a post
graduate diploma in the relevant speciality. Inherent requirements of the job:
Must be prepared to work shifts, weekends and public holidays. Must be
prepared to be on call. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic Computer
literacy. Knowledge and insight related Organ transplant coordination.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policy related to organ transplant
coordination. Ability to promote quality patient care through the setting,
implementation and monitoring of standards. Ability to function independently
as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Effective communication,
interpersonal, leadership, decision making, and conflict resolution skills. Good
organizational skills and the ability to function under pressure.
DUTIES : Identify and co-ordinate learning opportunities for all nursing and related staff
as well as students in the Organ transplant unit. Effective management of
cadaver and familial organ donor patients. Effective liaising with all relevant
stake holders within the organ transplant team. Effective utilisation of human
and financial Resources to ensure optimal operational function in the area.
Deliver a support service to the Nursing Service and the institution. Maintain
ethical standards and promote professional growth and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Sutcliffe Tel No: (021) 404-2092
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification or post-graduate qualification in the relevant specialty.
POST 17/296 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER: GRADE 1 TO 2 (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha CHC (X1 Post)
Nolungile CDC (X1 Post)
Mfuleni CDC (1 Post)
KESS (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and
Care, accredited with the SANC (R48). OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in
Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary
Care Nursing. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A Minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A Minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
periods referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific speciality after obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification in
Clinical Science, Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (R48). Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence. Willingness to work overtime
when necessary. Willingness to provide outreach services. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of procedures relating to nursing education,
209
training and of basic post basic nursing. Knowledge and understanding of
nursing Code of Ethics and Professional Practice of the SANC of nursing
Standard of Practice and scope of practice. Computer literate in MS Office
(Excel, Word and Power point) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Provide and perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of
practice and nursing standards for PHC services. Plan and implement Health
Promotion and Prevention activities. Link with community structures and
NPO’s. Collect data and submit reports on or before time. Assist with managing
human and equipment resources. Ensure an effective administrative service.
Facilitate clinical teaching, training and health education. Provision of effective
clinical services. Participate in research activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr DB Grootboom Tel No: (021) 360 5247
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status).
POST 17/297 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY)
(NEURO CLINIC)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212). OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience in Psychiatry after obtaining the 1-year
post-basic qualification as mentioned above or a post graduate diploma (R635)
accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends and public
holidays to meet operational requirements. Must be prepared to assist in all
departments according to operational requirements.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized psychiatric nursing care within set
standards and professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of human,
financial and physical resources (equipment and consumables). Participation
in appropriate personal /professional development activities: Self, students,
other categories of staff. Ensure efficient and accurate documentation,
statistical data collection capturing and participation in research activities.
Assist with the development and the implementation of nursing quality
improvement plans, policies and standard operating procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Venter Tel No: (021) 940-4424
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
210
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 17/298 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in all aspects of Public Financial
Management and Supply Chain Management. Appropriate working experience
in BAS; LOGIS, Vulindlela and the ePS. Appropriate financial management and
supervisory experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license
and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Advanced
computer literacy in Microsoft Office. Advanced skills in managing BAS; LOGIS
and related administrative processes like Budget Management and the
Management of Assets & Liabilities. Sound knowledge of all prescripts
governing and applicable to Finance and Supply Chain Management within the
Public Health environment. Sound knowledge of the PMFA, Treasury
Regulations &, DOH & Wellness financial prescripts & management systems,
the Western Cape Accounting Officer (AO) system and other prescripts, the
Western Cape Health Facilities Boards Act & Regulations. Strong managerial;
leadership and supervisory experience and skills in managing a
multidisciplinary finance team. Excellent communication skills (verbal and
written).
DUTIES : Monitor compliance with financial prescripts and provide support in the
coordination of policies, internal controls and improve processes. Management
of the Hospital Facility Board, administration and related. Ensure effective and
compliant supply chain management processes in line with PFMA and related
regulations and prescripts. Manage procurement, demand, acquisition,
contract management, asset management and inventory control functions.
Management of BAS/LOGIS payments and Mini Contracts. Ensure accurate
Asset & Liability management. Implement, effective controls to ensure audit
compliance and good governance, monitor and adjust as required. Effectively
coordinate year-end closure (AFS) and interim financial statements Scrutinise
and carefully prepare files for audit purposes. Effective management of People
Management resources including Human Resource Planning, R&S, Training &
Development, building strong teams and fostering team cohesion and where
necessary discipline and consequence management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Walters Tel No: (021) 940-4404
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/299 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Sonstraal Transitional Care Hospital, Paarl
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist in respect of RSA qualified employees.
1-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an
Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A
Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
211
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Willingness to rotate within the Sub-Structure and perform relief duties.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work accurately under pressure
and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability to work independently
and in a multi-disciplinary team with excellent interpersonal skills and
communication skills Innovative and analytical thinking and the ability to
initiate, coordinate, manage and sustain programs, (Knowledge of Community
Orientated Primary Care), sound knowledge of relevant national, provincial
legislation and Health Care 2030. Computer literate in MS Office (Excel, Word
and Power point) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Delivery of optimal outcomes-based interventions to patients in the WCTBC
(Sonstraal and IDH) according to occupational therapy principles and
protocols. Mobility and assistive device services rendered in the facility, to be
involved in research projects at the institution. Facilitation of training for health
personnel, clients, their families, volunteers and inter-departmental personnel,
liaise and collaborate with stakeholders. Perform administrative tasks relating
to department and skills development and training for Occupational Therapist.
ENQUIRIES : Dr W Oosthuysen Tel No: (021) 815 8344
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates
will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application
for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
POST 17/300 : MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3: CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professionals Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Technologist in Clinical Pharmacology. Registration with the
Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Technologist
in Clinical Pharmacology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Technologist (Clinical Pharmacology) in respect of South
African qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Technologist (Clinical Pharmacology) in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Technologist
(Clinical Pharmacology) in respect of South African qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
a Medical Technologist (Clinical Pharmacology) in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Technologist (Clinical
Pharmacology) in respect of South African qualified employees. A minimum of
21 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Technologist (Clinical Pharmacology) in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Perform after hours, weekend and
public holidays as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Trained and
qualified in laboratory techniques, with recent appropriate experience and
close attention to detail. Strong knowledge of the laboratory quality
management systems and regulatory frameworks. Excellent interpersonal
skills and effective communication Trained and qualified in ISO 15189 with
work experience in an accredited laboratory. Knowledge about routine drug
analysis and the importance of patient management. Excellent knowledge and
skills in use and maintenance of laboratory equipment. Ability to work in a team
212
and independently. Proficiency in the management system implementation and
Microsoft Office Suite.
DUTIES : Specimen receipt and handling. Performance of TDM assays. Electronic data
capture (DISALAB) and clinician interface. Maintenance of the IQC
programme. Instrument and Equipment Maintenance. Specialised assays –
Sample receipt and handling. Assistance with stock management.
ENQUIRIES : Prof P Sinxadi Tel No: (021) 406-6008
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 17/301 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (OCCUPATIONAL
THERAPY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. One-year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational
therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom is not required to
perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of
10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an
Occupational Therapist. Minimum of 11-year relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational therapist in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Minimum of
21-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an
Occupational therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of providing intervention for
clients with mental health challenges. Knowledge of applicable health
legislation, relevant acts, policies and procedures. Understanding of evidence-
based practice and knowledge of PSR model in a Mental health environment.
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide evidence based Clinical Service within a Mental health setting in
accordance with prescribed requirements and protocols. Conduct
assessments and implement treatments plans within allocated areas.
Administration related to clinical service delivery. Ensure effective resource
management and general administration tasks. Student supervision and
training. Management of events and projects advocating for mental health
services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Louw Tel No: (021) 940-4590
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status).
213
POST 17/302 : PRINCIPAL TELECOM OPERATOR
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent). Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, e-mail).
Excellent written and verbal communication skills. Leadership capabilities,
managerial and organisation skills. Ability to function individually and as part of
a team. Understanding the switchboard process. Appropriate knowledge and
experience in Switchboard operations. Experience: Appropriate experience
with electronic switchboards and paging systems, including AC WIN and MAN
3000 Expense Manager. Appropriate supervisory experience.
DUTIES : Overall Management of the Telecommunications component, responsible for
all technical matters, including Budget control, expenditure, and ensuring
effective Human Resource Management. Accurate and timeous reporting as
per requirements and compiling of switchboard statements. Knowledge of
disciplinary procedures and staff performance management. Provide effective
and efficient assistance and support to clients, personnel, management and
supervisors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M February Tel No: (021) 938 5295
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical assessment.
POST 17/303 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Nyanga Community Day Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in support services.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB).
Competencies knowledge/skills): Knowledge and understanding and
experience in LOGIS as well as knowledge and experience of budgetary
aspects. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management, Procurement policy of the
Department and personnel procedures. Computer literacy (MS Word and
Excel).
DUTIES : Manage the allocated budget, assist with expenditure, administration and
revenue management. Manage the Supply Chain section and the assets of the
facility including contract management and fleet management. Personnel and
Labour relations management. Manage the support to Assistant Manager
Nursing and Community Day Centre. Render assistance to Facility
Management. Human Resources control and management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mgqaliso Tel No: (021) 831-0882
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical, and oral assessment.
POST 17/304 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Goodwood CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate Grade 12 (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in a health facility. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ license. Willingness to work
overtime. Willingness to rotate within the geographical PHC facilities within the
NTSS when operationally required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of Supply Chain Management, Procurement policy of the
Department and personnel procedures. Advance computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel, Power point and Outlook). Good interpersonal and communication skills.
Knowledge and understanding of PERSAL, Logis, ESL, Bas, PHCIS, or any
computerized accounting and logistic system as well as knowledge and
experience of budgetary aspects.
DUTIES : Comprehensive support and assistance to the Facility Manager as Head of
administration with regards to People Management functions, performance
management of your subordinates, (HRM,) Human Resource Development
(HRD) and Labour Relations, Supply Chain Management (Logis) ESL,
214
Finance, Information Management and General office administration. Interact
and liaise with clinical staff and operational managers with regard to
administration support, ensure compliance with Quality Assurance, IPC/ OHS
and Ideal Clinic and OHSC. Assist with contract management, e.g., Security,
Telephone systems, Garden Services and Waste Management, Sanitary Bins
and Pest Control. Supervisor to Housekeeper and Cleaning staff, Logis Clerk,
Information management and Admin Support. Ensure correct procedures with
regard to asset management, GG vehicles (act as transport officer). Manage
the allocated budget, assist with expenditure, administration, and revenue
management. Liaise with workshop for maintenance, reports of facility and
grounds.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Rula Tel No: (021) 827-9120
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/305 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (MEDICAL
WARD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse or 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability and willingness to work shifts and after-hours
hospital cover including weekends, public holidays, night duty and overtime as
the need arises. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight of
relevant legislation and policy related to nursing within the public sector and
basic computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook) to be able to
communicate, capture patient information, check results, capture data and do
track referrals on the different electronic systems. Ability to promote quality
patient care through the implementation of protocols, guidelines, and
standards.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice or patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria, and
indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Dubru-Shunmugam Tel No: (021) 7991125, e-mail address:
Mary.Dubru@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 17/306 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3: GENERAL (NEW ACUTE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
215
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years recognisable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends and public holidays to
meet operational requirements. Willingness to work in all departments/wards
according to the operational needs of the hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and understanding of nursing care processes,
procedures, statuses, and other relevant legal and ethical practices. Computer
literacy (MS Office, MS Outlook). Good Communication skills. Report Writing
skills. Appropriate experience in advanced comprehensive nursing treatment
and care to patients in a specialized Mental Health Unit.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
professional/legal and ecosystem framework. Effective utilisation of resources.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
Provision of Support to Nursing Services. Participation in training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Buys Tel No: (021) 940-4424
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 17/307 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (FAMILY
MEDICINE) (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse OR A 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. OR A
3-year diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) AS A General Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, including day and night duty, weekends and
public holidays. Overtime as requested and rotate within departments
(excluding maternity ward) as required, in line with operational needs.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability
to function independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good
patient care. Ability to communicate effectively verbally and written. Knowledge
of the nursing processes & procedures as outlined in Nursing Act and SANC
regulations. Professionalism, good Interpersonal communication skills,
leadership skills and flexibility. Skills to plan, organize & coordinate the service
by analysing, problem solving and decision making.
216
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs,
the planning & implementation of nursing care and the education of nursing &
other personnel. Render advanced clinical nursing care and support clinical
staff with surgical & medical procedures. Utilize human, material and physical
resources efficiently and effectively. Maintain professional growth/ethical
standards and self- development. Display of core values of the Department of
Health WCG in the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LA Campbell Tel No: (044) 802-4371
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subject to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
POST 17/308 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: CBS TRAINER)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: A valid driver’s (Code B/EB) licence. Appropriate training/facilitation
experience. Willingness to travel extensively in the Sub-structure.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (written and
Verbal). Knowledge and understanding of Community Based Services and the
NPO Sector. Computer literacy in (Ms. Excel, Word and PowerPoint) and MS
Outlook. Proficiency in report writing.
DUTIES : Plan, coordinate, facilitate and teach the integrated formal training programme
developed for the Community Health Workers to address wellness in
communities. Facilitate the in-service training/updating of skills and
competencies (including mentoring and coaching) of the Community Health
Workers, patient care assistants, community residential care workers.
Conduct, monitor and evaluate all training activities offered to Community
Health Workers. Support other professional nurse training initiatives of the
NPO outreach team leaders according to needs identified of the district.
Facilitate and compile relevant training related reports and other administrative
duties with involvement of all stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Mokitimi Tel No: (021) 360-4703
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
217
POST 17/309 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL) (X6 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Bishop Lavis CHC (X1 Post)
Goodwood CDC (X1 Post)
Morning Star (X1 Post)
Kraaifontein PHC (X1 Post)
Elsies River (X1 Post)
Symphony Way CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR A 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A Minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A Minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Willingness to work after hours. Willingness to rotate within the
facility and assist with other PHC clinics in the Sub-structure when there is a
need. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of grievance procedure
and disciplinary legislation. Knowledge and understanding of nursing Code of
Ethics and Professional Practice of the SANC of Nursing Standard of Practice
and scope of practice. Computer literate in MS Office (Excel, Word and Power
point) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care within the Primary Health Care context. Maintain
ethical practice within legal and regulatory frameworks. Maintain a constructive
working relationship with all relevant stakeholders of the Primary Health Care
Team. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Participate in training programmes and research activities. Maintain workplace
disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr X Mphafa Tel No: (021) 508-4643 (Bishop Lavis)
Ms R Rula Tel No: (021) 827-9120 (Goodwood)
Ms L Rose-Benjamin Tel No: (021) 829-8330 (Morning Star)
Ms I Adriaanse-Fortuin Tel No: (021) 876-2172 (Kraaifontein)
Ms G Naude Tel No: (021) 204-9400 (Symphony Way)
Ms J Heunis Tel No: (021) 913-0211 (Elsies River)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
POST 17/310 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3: GENERAL (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Contract until 31 January 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
218
the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty,
weekends and public holidays to meet the operational requirements. Prepared
to work in all departments/wards according to the operational needs of the
hospital. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, planning, and
organisational skills. Computer literacy in MS Office and Outlook) Knowledge
of the Mental Health Care Act, Child Care Act, Nursing Act and other relevant
legislation.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care to mental users with set standards
within a professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of resources.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
Provision of Support to Nursing Services. Participation in training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Marepula Tel No: (021) 826-5830
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status).
POST 17/311 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital, Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas of the Post. Experience: Appropriate experience in a
finance environment. Appropriate experience in Logis and BAS. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good verbal and written communication skills in at list two
of the three official languages of the Western Cape. Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Ability to work independently, yet as part of a team.
Computer skills in (MS Office: Word, and Excel). Knowledge of PFMA, Finance
Instructions Provincial Treasury Regulations and Supply Chain Management
processes.
DUTIES : Control, verify, capture journals and report Assets and Liability accounts.
Compile and capture payments on BAS and LOGIS. Control, verify and follow
up on debt accounts according to prescripts. Management and replenishment
of Petty Cash. Reconciliation of supplier’s statements. Assist in monthly, IFS
and AFS reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sithole Tel No: (021) 360-4266, or email:
Andiswa.Sithole@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/312 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience of patient admissions in a hospital
environment. Appropriate experience in Clinicom. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work 12-hour shifts (i.e. Night duty, weekends and public
holidays) and overtime on short notice. The incumbent must be willing and able
to rotate within the various components of the facility based on operational
needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good (written and verbal)
communication skills. Computer literacy essential (MS Word, PowerPoint,
Excel and Outlook). Knowledge of hospital fees/admissions memorandum
Chapter 18, UPFS, HIS.
219
DUTIES : Patient registration on Clinicom System. Admitting of Inpatients, discharge of
patients, transfer of patients. Correct information obtained, correct assessment
at the reception point. Deal with written and telephonic enquiries with regard to
Patient Admission matters. Responsible for handling and receiving of public
money and cash collection to main cashier.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Speelman Tel No: (021) 360-4276
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/313 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ECO
SYSTEM SUPPORT)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
(9 Months Contract)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : Head Office (based at Belville)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Accounting or Mathematics as a passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience that focuses on the Key Performance Area (KPA’S)
of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain Management
practices or system management/implementation, asset verification, inventory
management or consumables support. Inherent requirement of the job: Willing
to travel with the Western Cape and stay in nurse homes where applicable.
Valid driver's licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate
effectively (written and spoken). Ability to communicate effectively (written and
spoken). Computer Literacy particularly in Word and Excel. Knowledge of asset
verification scanning, inventory management and consumables processes.
Conversant with the Department’s procurement prescripts. Excellent human
relations abilities and telephone skills.
DUTIES : Ensure all assets (new and existing) are barcoded as well as barcoding
locations for identification purposes. Scan all assets per location using the
scanning application and support inventory and consumables review activities
at facility level. Using the BI tools, identify assets not verified as well as no-
moving or slow-moving inventory and consumables for investigation. Capture
all movements, balance adjustments, additions, transfers and donations in
respect of assets, and assist with inventory and consumables data clean-up
where required. Perform thorough asset verification, inventory spot checks and
reviews of stockholding points in each directorate as well as spot checks.
Ensure that assets/equipment identified as unserviceable are confirmed for
further follow-up and processing. Roll out and maintain asset and inventory
applications designed for the Department. Perform an effective Helpdesk
service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Ruiters, email: Jovan.Ruiters@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/314 : PRINCIPAL OPERATOR (PNEUMATIC TUBE STATION)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in a health facility. Inherent requirements
of the job: The ability to handle heavy equipment. Willingness to work shifts
and ability to report for duty at 6:30 (weekends included). The successful
incumbent must be willing to work under pressure and irregular hours as
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the Tube distribution
system and knowledge of the procedure to report faults of same. Knowledge
of safety standards when handling blood products and blood specimens.
Computer literacy (Ms Word, MS Excel). The ability to communicate (verbal &
written) i.e. good telephone etiquette, interpersonal and communication skills.
DUTIES : Supervise subordinates within the component. Responsible for the operational
function of the tube system, reporting defective specimens, budget control,
expenditure, and ensuring effective Human Resource Management. Accurate
and timeous reporting as per requirements and compiling of reports. Manage
disciplinary procedures and staff performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Meyer Tel No: (021) 938-4125
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to practical assessment.
220
POST 17/315 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS/WARDS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in healthcare environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook). Sound communication, organisational and interpersonal skills. Ability
to work independently and in a team. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles and
Patient Rights Charter.
DUTIES : Render patient administration services including admissions, transfers and
discharges. Maintain accurate patient records and filing systems. Provide
general administrative and office support. Handle enquiries professionally.
Assist with statistics, reports, stock control and transport bookings. Provide
support across Patient Administration areas as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Jacobs Tel No: (021) 918-1208
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/316 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Southern Western Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate practical experience in Information Management in a
health environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal
and written). Knowledge of Department of Health policies, acts, legislation and
circulars. Knowledge of Information management processes and
procedures/Standard Operating Procedures (SOP’s). Knowledge of Computer
systems: SINJANI, Clinicom, PHCIS, Tier.net and EDR.web. Knowledge and
understanding of HAST programme data tools. MS Office (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook).
DUTIES : Perform administrative role as a member of the information management team
and participation in health information co-ordinating activities. Collect, collate,
compile data, validate data, analyse data trends, ensuring proper data flow,
data quality monitoring and preparing and data reports for meetings. Conduct
data spot checks and trends analysis for all datasets and follow up with issues
identified. Attend to Ad Hoc Queries and Data Requests. Assist with all
campaign data collection, collation, capturing, and data quality. Conduct audits
at Facilities in line with SOP’s and auditor general requirements and provide
feedback to facility staff. Support to Line Manager and administrative relief
duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Van Staden Tel No: (021) 202 0932
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/317 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Overberg Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Hawston Clinic, Overstrand Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s licence.
Willingness to work overtime. Relieve in all areas in Overstrand Sub-district.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability
to function independently as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good
patient care. Ability to communicate effectively (both written and verbal).
221
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care. Provide basic clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Legolie Tel No: (028) 814-3823
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/318 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR (WARD 7 PSYCHOLOGY GERIATRIC)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate housekeeping experience in
a hospital environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, including weekends and public holidays when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to adhere to safety and hygienic standards. Ability to
effectively communicate. Knowledge of linen and stock control. Knowledge of
infection control.
DUTIES : Responsible for overall control, performing and co-ordinating of tasks related
to hygiene, cleaning, and linen services within the ward. Ensure the effective
use, maintenance and safe keeping of supplies and equipment. Supervision of
household aid /cleaners in the ward. Responsible for all administrative duties
associated with supervision. Attend in-service training appropriate to service
delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Mhlana Tel No: (021) 940-4424
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/319 : TRADESMAN AID (AIR-CON/REFRIGERATION)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support Services
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Bellville Mobile Workshop)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience within the Air-conditioning/Refrigeration field within a
workshop environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to travel
throughout the Western Cape Province. Physically fit to do manual labour.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to handle tools. Good interpersonal
skills. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Carry out minor maintenance tasks. Assist with repairs and emergency
breakdowns (including after-hour repairs). Assist with the installation of plant,
equipment, and alterations. Clear areas where work has been carried out.
Ensure that tools and materials are available when needed. Assist the Artisans
in the execution of their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Bingham Tel No: (021) 918-1222
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
POST 17/320 : PORTER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience:
Appropriate working experience in a hospital environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Required to work shifts, weekends and public holidays.
Ability to perform tasks such as lifting patient’s from/onto beds, trolleys and
wheelchairs. Willingness to work in a team. Must be of sober habits.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication
skills.
DUTIES : Ensure and effective porter service to clients and management by safe
transporting of patients on trolleys and wheelchairs, within various areas in the
hospital, assist with the removal of bodies from wards. Collecting and delivering
of blood specimens, blood hampers and patient folders. Maintenance of
equipment by ensuring all equipment are taken care of, ensure a safe and
hygienic work environment as well as collecting and cleaning of equipment.
Maintain sound interpersonal Relations by promoting a conductive working
environment. Adhere to dress code and code of conduct.
222
ENQUIRIES : Ms J van der Riel Tel No: (021) 799-1270
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 17/321 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Cape Winelands Health
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Ceres Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience:
Appropriate experience in the transportation of employees and goods. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to be
on standby, work overtime, and work on weekends and public holidays.
Physically fit and able to lift and load heavy items. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Transport Regulations. Ability to accept
accountability, responsibility, and to work independently.
DUTIES : Daily transporting of official passengers, post, packages, chronic medication,
goods, equipment, and heavy laundry bags, as well as completion of logbooks.
Deliver and collect blood products. Conduct routine maintenance and cleaning
of Government vehicles. Conduct routine inspection of vehicles and report
defects. Perform routine administrative duties when required and respond to
emergencies when necessary. Relief staff within the component when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moses Tel No: (023) 316-9600
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 17/322 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (SURGERY) (10 SESSIONS)
(Contract until 31 March 2027)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R671 per hour
Grade 2: R766 per hour
Grade 3: R887 per hour
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Surgery. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Surgery. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Surgery. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical
Specialist in Surgery. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience
as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in Surgery. Inherent requirements of the job: Must be willing
to work sessional hours after hours, including weekends and public holidays.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in general surgery.
Appropriate experience in emergency upper-Gastrointestinal endoscopy and
management of upper-GI bleeding. Ability to work in a team and with all levels
of staff. Interest in developing an academic career.
DUTIES : Management and communication to appropriately triaged & efficient running of
theatre lists. Requirements to complete statistics collection. Completion of
medicolegal documents. Participation in research, audits and quality
improvement programs. To deliver comprehensive after-hours emergency
/urgent surgical services to patients in theatre, GIT unit, surgical wards, and
emergency centre at Victoria Hospital. The aim is to deliver safe, cost-effective
and high-quality care at all times and promote comprehensive peri-operative
care of patients in the discipline of general surgery. This would include the
following roles: Pre-operative assessment and resuscitation of surgical patient
and planning appropriate operative management. Emergency/urgent & trauma
surgical procedures. Competency & proficiency in emergency UGI endoscopy
& management of UGI bleeding. Post-operative assessment & care, with
appropriate investigation & management of possible complications. Teaching
and training of intern.
ENQUIRIES : Dr G Dunbar Tel No: (021) 799-1211, email:
graeme.dunbar@westerncape.gov.za
223
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
POST 17/323 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (ULTRASOUND) (20 SESSIONS)
Cape Winelands Health District
(Contract until 31 March 2029)
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 per hour
Grade 2: R395 per hour
Grade 3: R464 per hour
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Ultrasound/Radiography. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Ultrasound
Radiographer. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA
in Ultrasound Radiography in respect of RSA-qualified employees. One-year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography
(Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees. Minimum of
11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography
(Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum
of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees. Minimum of
21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography
(Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required
to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) Driver’s Licence and willingness to
travel within the Sub-district when the need arises. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in word processing, data management
and analysis. Ability to use or learn to use systems eg Clinicom, PHCIS Ability
to work independently and in a team with good interpersonal skills. Thorough
knowledge of ante-natal, Doppler, paediatric, gynaecological and abdominal
ultrasound studies.
DUTIES : Provide a comprehensive diagnostic ultrasound service at an advanced level
with the main focus on Obstetrics and Gynaecology (O&G) imaging in
Stellenbosch Hospital. But including abdominal and other studies. Outreach
sonography services to clinics in the ecosystem and district as requested.
General care of patients as part of a Multi-Disciplinary team. Effective
administration within the ultrasound unit regarding patient service, appropriate
referral as well as equipment management. Maintain case records and
statistics. Supervise, mentor and assess colleagues eg midwives, doctors,
radiographers. Actively take part in CPD- program, as trainer and learner.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Boraine Tel No: (021) 808-5801
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates,
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals whom apply for the first time for registration
in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
224
POST 17/324 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST THERAPIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (16 HOURS PER WEEK
SESSIONAL POST)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R273 per hour
Grade 2: R318 per hour
Grade 3: R373 per hour
CENTRE : Northern Tygerberg Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPSA) as a
Physiotherapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPSA as Physiotherapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect of RSA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a
Physiotherapist in respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years’
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist
in respect of RSA-qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to do outreach to other PHC Clinics
in the Sub-Structure. Willingness to be involved in research projects at the
institution. Competencies (knowledge / skills): Appropriate clinical
physiotherapeutic skills in assessment and treatment of patients. Ability in
assessing and issuing Mobility Assistive Devices. Ability to function within a
multi-disciplinary team setting, to be flexible and to work independently. Good
problem solving, conflict resolution, interpersonal, good communication skills
(written and verbal), leadership and organizational skills. Computer literate in
MS Office (Excel, Word and PowerPoint) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Responsible for the rendering of clinical physiotherapy services in various
clinical areas. Assist the manager in the strategic planning process of the
Physiotherapy Department. Perform duties in line with the department’s
operational plans. Mentor Physiotherapist on a more junior level. Manage
physical and human resources in a clinical area and co-ordinate all relevant
administrative activities regarding the patient’s clinical area. Assist the CHC’s
in the area where needed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N KassenTel No: (021) 815-8798
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected to a
practical/oral assessment.
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
225
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/325 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: DEPARTMENTAL PERFORMANCE
MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO: DOI 51/2026
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or relevant higher tertiary qualification; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
rendering a support service to management/ senior management.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: General Support; Financial
Support; Record keeping; Relevant policies and procedures. Skills in the
following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint);
Communication skills (written and verbal); Good interpersonal and decision-
making skills; Planning and Organising; Ability to work independently and as
part of a team.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/ receptionist support service to the manager; Render
administrative support services; Provide support to the manager regarding
meetings; Support the manager with the administration of the manager’s
budget; Studies the relevant Public Service and departmental prescripts/
policies and other documents and ensure that the application therof is
understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Martin Tel No: (021) 483 5432
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/326 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HS CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
DOI 49/2026
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Basic office administration; Housing Code;
Housing Amendment Act (Act 4 of 2001); Filling system and record keeping;
Skills in the following: Basic Computer literacy in Ms Package (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint); Organisational; Good communication (written and verbal);
Problem solving and Work well under pressure.
DUTIES : Assist in contract administration relating to Human Settlement development
projects; Provide support to Senior Admin Officer and Assistant Director:
Contract Administration; Assist with auxiliary and general support functions and
Assist with Human Resources related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Nolusindiso Bobelo Tel No: (021) 483 8407
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/327 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FLEET MAINTENANCE REF NO: DOI 50/2026
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A valid (code B or
higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
A good understanding of the following: Working knowledge of Fleet
Administration, Procurement and Supply Chain Management; Asset Control,
store and stock-taking procedures; Obtaining quotations telephonically or via
the Integrate Purchasing System; Applicable treasury and purchasing
delegations; Skills needed: Written and verbal communication; Proven
226
computer literacy; Planning and organising; Problem analysis; Creative
thinking; Technical proficiency; Interpersonal relations; Ability to work under
pressure and independently as well as in a team.
DUTIES : Procurement and general asset verification administration; Data capturing;
Administer Licensing and repair authorities; Administer traffic fines; Administer
Machine transfers and plant management; Loss and control liaison; Logistical
arrangements and administration of auctions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Arendse Tel No: (021) 959 7700
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/328 : PROJECT SUPPORT CLERK: EDUCATION INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO:
DOI 52/2026
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge in the following: Administration rules and regulations; Departmental
information systems (BAS) Basic Accounting System ,BIZ Project, MYContent,
SITS or similar); Skills needed: Computer literacy (MS Word, Ms Excel, Ms
Outlook); Record keeping; Good communication (written and verbal); Ability to
work under pressure and Ability to work independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Provide Reception Services; Manage diary appointments and scheduling;
facilitate appointments and meetings; Maintain effective record-keeping
systems; distribute, track, and manage documentation; perform binding and
laminating of documents; provide logistical support; Invoice processing,
Timeous and accurate capturing/updating of project financial information on
Project Management Information Systems; Establishing and maintaining a
project documentation library by providing document management support,
ensuring proper identification, version control, change control, and
administration of all project-related documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Klaas at (073) 447 0329
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/329 : RECEPTIONIST: HR AND GENERAL SUPPORT SERVICES (BELLVILLE)
REF NO: DOI 27/2026
SALARY : R201 093 - R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Supply chain management duties and practices;
Legislative framework governing the Public Service; Work procedures in terms
of the working environment; Data capturing; Filing system. Skills in the
following: Numeracy; Typing; Computer Literacy; Language skills; Sound
organisational skills; Good verbal and written communication; Telephone
etiquette.
DUTIES : Typing and correspondence support service; Reception and Switchboard
services; Provide support in meetings and arrangements of appointments;
Provide an administrative support service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J. Hicks Tel No: (021) 959 7700
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/330 : ROAD SIGN ASSEMBLER: ROAD SIGNS FACTORY REF NO: DOI 79/2025
R1 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE IN BELLVILLE)
SALARY : R170 226 – R200 523 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 certificate (equivalent or higher qualification); Practical training; A
minimum of 2 years’ relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Machines, tools and spray-painting equipment in the road sign
environment; SADC road sign manual; Operating machinery in the
manufacturing environment; Principles of manufacturing road signage, Road
227
sign production layout and Manufacturing procedures; Skills needed: Ability to
cut and assemble materials for road signs; Power tools and equipment; Written
and verbal communication; Interpret and execute plans and instructions.
DUTIES : Assemble road signs; Binds panels (Assemble); Layout pances in line with
specifications of design; Ensure materials are attached to the panels in line
with design; Cut and bind plates/boards/channels for mounting; Do quality
control; ack road signs and send en route; Pack signs according to orders;
Load signs for transportation (according to prescripts); Do quality control;
Perform administrative tasks; Completion of daily returns (logs); Prepare
requests for materials required to ensure optimal stock levels.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Nizaam Toffar Tel No: (021) 959 770
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm); Or
2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974, Or
3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in
the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Applications not submitted on or before the closing date as well as faxed copies
will not be considered. If you did not receive any correspondence within 3
months of closing date, consider your application as unsuccessful. NB:
Applicants from relevant local communities will receive preferences. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department.
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
228
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/331 : DIRECTOR: SPECIALISED SUPPORT REF NO: LG 09/2026
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A B degree (NQF 7), with a legal focus as recognised by SAQA; 5 years’ middle
or senior management experience. Competencies: Strategic Management;
Change management; Programme and Project Management; People
Management; Financial Management.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of specialised functional and operational legal support to
municipalities; Facilitate assessment investigations relating to corruption, fraud
and maladministration; Initiate, coordinate and manage section 139
interventions including discretionary and/ or mandatory interventions; Strategic
Management (including change management); People Management; Financial
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Greyling Tel No: (021) 4836126
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/332 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DISTRICT AND LOCAL PERFORMANCE
MONITORING (MUNICIPAL GOVERNANCE) REF NO: LG 04/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3 year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Public Administration; A minimum of 3 years middle
management experience. Competencies: Working knowledge of the following:
Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a
bearing on the line functions; Information systems that aid in the management
of knowledge and information pertaining to the line function; Municipal Systems
Act (32 of 2000), Municipal Structures Act (117 of 1998), Regulations on
Appointment and Conditions of Employment of Senior Managers (GN21,
GG37245, 17 January 2014), Disciplinary Regulations for Senior Managers
(GN344, GG34213, 21 April 2011); Procedures relating to Civil Litigation in
High Court; Project management; Operational management practices;
Procurement and tendering processes; Policy development, and operational
management, monitoring and review processes; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and
systems; Regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on
the provincial government of the Western Cape; Constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public
finance, human resources and discourse management processes; Public
Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other
financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Functioning
of the province and the activities of sister departments/related functional areas;
Policies of the government of the day; Labour Relations legislation and
regulations; Performance management in general. Skills in the following:
Numeracy; Computer literacy; Language skills; Project Management;
Accounting; Finance/Audit; Legal.
DUTIES : Effect and Maintain Amendment of Establishment Notices of Municipalities and
evaluate municipal governance in terms of implementation of performance
monitoring; Assess and analyse Reports from municipalities as to appointment
of senior managers being consistent with Legislation and prepare submissions
for MEC for Local Government; Collect, collate and validate data and
information relating to Districts and Local Municipalities monitoring and
outcomes in relation to Senior Management; Develop and regulate a
framework for monitoring senior management vacancies and key indicators by
districts and local municipalities; Provide input and advice on national and
provincial policy and legislative processes affecting municipalities; Plan and
manage the work responsibilities and account for the overall performance;
People Management and Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Makan Tel No: (021) 483 4365
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
229
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 17/333 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RIGHTS REF NO: LG 11/2026
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years administrative experience. Competencies:
Working knowledge and understanding of the following: International, national,
regional and provincial instruments and legislation pertaining to the specific
field of human rights; Specialised field of gender, youth, disability, HIV/AIDS,
children, older persons, substance abuse and social cohesion; Legislation,
regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the
line functions; Information systems that aid in the management of knowledge
and information pertaining to the line function; Project management;
Operational management practices; Procurement and tendering processes;
Policy development, and operational management, monitoring and review
processes; Modern systems of governance and administration; Public service
procedures, processes and systems; Knowledge and understanding of the
regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on the
provincial government of the Western Cape; Constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public
finance, human resources and discourse management processes; Public
Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other
financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Functioning
of the Province and the activities of sister Departments/related functional
areas; Policies of the government of the day; Labour Relations legislation and
regulations; Performance management in general. Skills in the following:
Numeracy; Computer Literacy; Good written and verbal communication;
Project Management; Report Writing; Team Player; Ability to prioritize and
handle high volume of work; Have a multidisciplinary approach; Listening skills.
DUTIES : Mainstreaming of human rights concerns into the core functions of the
Department (creating an enabling environment for implementation); Deliver
special projects on human rights concerns (external focus); Guidance and
assistance to Municipalities with the institutionalisation of Human Rights
Concerns at Municipalities; Provide administrative support regarding the
human rights functions within the component; General administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Ramnath Tel No: (021) 483 3333
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
230
POST 17/334 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SPECIALISED SUPPORT REF NO: LG 12/2026
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge and understanding of the following: Relevant
legislation/policies/prescripts and procedures; Financial Administration; Skills
needed: Computer Literacy; Written and Verbal Communication;
Administration; Analytical; Time management; Interpersonal; Organising and
planning.
DUTIES : Procurement of goods and services; Office Maintenance; Keeping and filing of
Departmental for Directorate; Administrative Support; Relief Personal Assistant
as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Charnine Davids Tel No: (021) 483 2856
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
DEPARTMENT OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/335 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INVESTIGATIONS AND ADVICE REF NO: DOTP
56/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year Tertiary qualification (B-Degree or higher qualification)
on NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Social and Administrative Sciences
or related. A minimum of 3 - 5 years relevant Management experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector; Provincial
executive support systems and services; Public communication, public
231
education, public engagement and discourse management processes; Good
corporate governance norms and standards; Strategy development, strategy
management and strategy monitoring and review processes; People
management processes; Financial management processes; Needs, interests
and rights of children, and stakeholders within the sector; Critical issues and
challenges which children face; Investigation and research processes;
Advocacy; Child rights; Skills: Conceptualise and manage
research/investigations initiatives; Interpret and apply relevant policies and
procedures; Understand and apply governance policies and procedures;
Human resource planning; Problem solving; Sound Budgeting; Facilitation;
Presentation; Report writing.
DUTIES : Manage the initiation and conducting of investigations and enquiries into any
matter within the scope of the Commissioner as aligned to the Western Cape
Commissioner for Children Bill; Manage the initiation and conducting of
research with regard to policies and legislation pertaining to children; Manage
and investigate matters related to the mandate of the Commissioner; Establish
a confidential and robust application mechanism for applications by the public
regarding matters for investigation or research; Review/prepare documents to
support the review of applications for investigation or research; Contact
relevant stakeholders (such as families, schools, hospitals, children’s homes,
places of safety, correctional facilities, police stations etc) relating to the issue
of investigation, and conduct interviews, meetings or other engagements with
them where necessary; Review/prepare reports upon the completion of an
investigation for submission to the Commissioner for Children; Ensure that any
reports to WCPP are submitted timeously; Provide information and advice on
children’s rights to persons, institutions or organs of state in the Western Cape
whose policies and practices relate to children; Promote lobbying on child
rights issues within the Province; Report on the activities of the Children’s
Commissioner; Perform managerial tasks with regard to the Sub Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Roberts Sarah.Roberts@westerncape.gov.za
POST 17/336 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT RECORDS REF NO:
DOTP 59/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); a minimum of 5 years relevant experience in records
management within the public sector; a valid (Code B or higher) driving licence.
NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities but who have
reasonable access to transport may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of the following: Legislative and governance requirements
related to records management, Provincial Archives and Records Service Act
and National Archives and Records Service prescripts; records management
standards; management principles and practices, retention scheduling and
disposal authorisations; legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best
practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Project management;
operational management practices; Labour Relations legislation and
regulations; performance management in general; policy development, and
operational management, monitoring and review processes; modern systems
of governance and administration; public service procedures, processes and
systems.
DUTIES : Responsible for the People Management (HR) Registry for all 11 Corporate
Service Centre (CSC) client departments: Manage the safe-keeping, storage,
retrieval and disposal of all people-management records for the CSC; Establish
and maintain an electronic records management system. Management of the
archiving/disposal processes. Management of the Document Control unit at the
People Management Walk-in Centre. Provide a Messenger/collections/courier
service; Plan for and distribute the work allocated to the People Management
Registry; review existing, or develop, new procedures for the People
Management Registry. Conduct a Risk Analysis for the registry functions.
Maintain the registry risk register. Compile and maintain approved records
classification system for paper-based and electronic records. Monitor and
supervise the quantity and quality of outputs delivered by the registry.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Ward Tel No: (021) 483 5640
232
POST 17/337 : CHILDREN'S COMMISSIONER OFFICER: INVESTIGATIONS AND ADVICE
REF NO: DOTP 57/2026
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year Tertiary qualification (National Diploma) on NQF level 6
as recognised by SAQA in Social Sciences or related field. A minimum of 1-
year relevant experience in a similar environment (Experience in Children
rights, Youth and Community Development and Child protection).
Competencies: Application and understanding of the following legislation:
Provincial executive support systems and services; Public communication,
public education, public engagement and discourse management processes;
Good corporate governance norms and standards; Policies of the government
of the day; Needs, interests and rights of children, and stakeholders within the
sector; Critical issues and challenges which children face. Behavioural
competencies: Delivering Results and Meeting Customer Expectations;
Working with stakeholders including children and the public; Persuading and
Influencing; Analysis of data; Skills: Human resource planning; Problem solving
skills; Sound Budgeting skills; Facilitation Skills; Presentation Skills; Report
writing skills.
DUTIES : Initiate investigations and resolve enquiries into service delivery efficiencies to
Children in the Western Cape; Conduct research into policies and legislation
pertaining to the well-being and rights of Children access to services; Report
on the activities of the Children’s Commissioner; Provide information and
advice on Children’s rights to persons, institutions or organs of state in the
Western Cape whose policies and practices relate to Children; Prepare, assess
and submit investigative reports and develop supporting interventions; Support
the Western Cape Children’s Commissioner functions, and create awareness
and understanding of Children’s rights with identified audiences; Support
investigations related to the mandate of the Commissioner.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Roberts-Sarah.Roberts@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 17/338 : CHILDREN'S COMMISSIONER OFFICER: MONITORING AND
AWARENESS REF NO: DOTP 58/2026
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year Tertiary qualification (National Diploma) on NQF level 6
as recognised by SAQA in Social Sciences or related field. A minimum of 1-
year relevant experience in a similar environment (Experience in Children
rights, Youth and Community Development and Child protection).
Competencies: Application and understanding of the following legislation:
Provincial executive support systems and services; Public communication,
public education, public engagement and discourse management processes;
Good corporate governance norms and standards; Policies of the government
of the day; Needs, interests and rights of children, and stakeholders within the
sector; Critical issues and challenges which children face. Behavioural
competencies: Delivering Results and Meeting Customer Expectations;
Working with stakeholders including children and the public; Persuading and
Influencing; Analysis of data; Skills: Human resource planning; Problem solving
skills; Sound Budgeting skills; Facilitation Skills; Presentation Skills; Report
writing skills.
DUTIES : Monitor, advocate and report on the wellbeing and level of service delivery to
the Children within the Western Cape; Support the development and
implementation of policies and strategic frameworks; Prepare, participate in
and assess monitoring and evaluation exercises, program reviews and annual
reviews; Report on the activities of the Children’s Commissioner; Support the
Western Cape Children’s Commissioner functions; Create, organise and
implement public awareness programmes, interventions and an understanding
of Children’s rights with identified audiences; Provide information and advice
on children’s rights to persons, institutions or organs of state in the Western
Cape whose policies and practices relate to children; Support investigations
related to the mandate of the Commissioner.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Roberts- Sarah.Roberts@westerncape.gov.za
233
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
DEPARTMENT OF PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 17/339 : DIRECTOR: FISCAL POLICY REF NO: PT 12/2026
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Economics, Public Finance or
Public Policy as recognised by SAQA; 5 years’ experience at middle and/ or
senior management level. Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership;
Project and Programme Management; Change Management; People
Management and Empowerment; Financial Management.
DUTIES : Improve the sustainability of provincial and municipal revenue sources and
explore the full use thereof; Strategic Management (including change
management); People Management; and Finance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Victor Senna Tel No: (021) 483 2666
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/340 : ASSISTANT MANAGER (PROVISIONING): PROVISIONING AND ASSET
MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT 11/2026
SALARY : R413 001 - R468 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in financial management and supply chain management policy
development; A minimum of 1 year of related supply chain management
experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Public Sector policies
and regulations (Public Financial Management Act (Act of 1999) Public Service
Act (Act 103 of 1994), Prescripts, policies and procedures governing financial
234
and Supply Chain Management; National Treasury Regulations (NTR),
National and Provincial Treasury`s Supply Chain Management Instructions,
Note, Circulars, Supply Chain Management Policies, legislations, Acts; Public
sector procurement processes, rules and regulations; Framework governing
the Supply Chain Management and Public Sector; Ability to work independently
and meet deadlines, ability to work under pressure and deliver to tight
deadlines, work in a team and preparedness to work overtime when required;
Skills needed: Written and verbal communication; Planning and organisational;
Management and leadership.
DUTIES : Compilation of moveable asset management notes for interim financial
statements (IFS) and annual financial statements (AFS) in terms of the
modified cash standards, generally recognised accounting practice (GRAP);
Supervise and render fleet management administration and auxiliary support
services to the Department; Provide an effective and efficient asset
management system and asset register. Processing of requisitions for the
placing of orders; management and supervision of human resource staff.
Maintain and ensure an effective consumable management service for the
department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Rhapale Tel No: (021) 483 6810
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 17/341 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PROVISIONING AND ASSET
MANAGEMENT REF NO: PT 10/2026
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 6-10
years of relevant experience in an administrative environment. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: good interpersonal relations, communication,
planning and organization, management and leadership, and ability to work
independently and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Render the operationalization of transport policy in the department renders
logistical/fleet administration support services. (Departmental Fleet); Render
general administrative support services (Auxiliary services); Provide
Maintenance support to the department; Maintain a key register for the
department; supervise and mentor subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Rhapale Tel No: (021) 483 6810
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
235
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
WESTERN CAPE MOBILITY DEPARTMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 17/342 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT (PAROW) REF
NO: WCMD 109/2025 R1
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year of relevant administrative support
experience. A Code B driving license (or higher). Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: Organisational and management practices, policies and
operational functioning of the Chief Directorate; Financial management,
monitoring and reporting procedures and systems related to budget monitoring
instruments, approved post lists, expenditure commitment reports; Chief
Directorate’s strategic planning and monitoring and evaluation processes;
General office administration and database management; General support
systems; Information and Record Management/Administration; Administrative
procedures and processes; Procurement processes and computer-based
information systems. Skills needed: Numeracy, Literacy, Computer Literacy,
Project Management, Accounting, Finance and Audit, Economic, Financial and
Statistical Analysis, Legal administration; Written and verbal communication;
Organizing, planning; and problem-solving.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services; Coordinate monitoring and evaluation
activities and maintain the relevant systems; Provide support to the directorate
for supply chain management activities; Render advice and liaise with regard
to administrative matters and supervisory functions; Filing through MyContent:
Managing the Directorate's Fleet of Vehicles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Kafaar @ Al-Ameen.Kafaar@westerncape.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 15 June 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
236
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 17/343 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR: SERVICE DELIVERY TEAMS (PRINS
ALBERT) REF NO: DSD 26/2026
SALARY : R496 668 - R583 833 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A 4-year tertiary qualification in social work (degree/diploma) that allows
registration with SACSSP; Registration and current registration with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP). A minimum of 7
years of appropriate experience in social work after registration as a social
worker with the SACSSP. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Job-
related knowledge; analytic and diagnostic tools, assessment tools, evaluation
methods, and processes. Personnel Management, Supervision Framework for
Social Workers, and Social Work Legislation Related to Children. Social work
theory and interventions; Information and knowledge management, protocol,
and professional ethics. Job-Related Skills: Organising and planning; project
planning; psychosocial intervention; communication and language (2 official
languages of the Western Cape Government); People management practices;
interpersonal, report writing, computer literacy, presentation and facilitation,
problem solving and analytical, and client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : To ensure that a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection,
and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families, and communities
through the relevant programs is rendered, Attend to any other matters that
could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form. Supervise employees
engaged in these functions; This would include the following actions: Conduct
assessments that are problematic for supervisees, aimed at identifying
conditions in individuals, groups, families, and communities that justify relevant
interventions. Ensure that the appropriate recommendations and interventions
required to address the conditions are identified. Ensure the development and
planning of programs to render the recommended interventions efficiently,
effectively, and economically. Ensure that the recommended interventions are
implemented by supervisees by providing continuous support, counselling,
guidance, and advice to supervisees. Monitor and evaluate the effectiveness
of the recommended interventions; Ensure reporting on progress and identify
further/amended interventions to address the identified conditions; Study,
interpret, apply, and give guidance on legislation and policies in the identified
work fields to supervisors and other role players/stakeholders. Perform
statutory functions that are problematic for supervisees relating to the relevant
function, compile court reports, and attend to court inquiries and the other tasks
emanating from these matters. Ensure that records of social work
interventions, processes, and outcomes are produced and maintained. Ensure
implementation and compliance with all standard operating procedures and
sector norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I April- @ Imelda.April@westerncape.gov.za
POST 17/344 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR: SERVICE DELIVERY TEAMS (ATHLONE)
REF NO: DSD 27/2026
SALARY : R496 668 - R583 833 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A 4-year tertiary qualification in social work (degree/diploma) that allows
registration with SACSSP; registration and proof of current registration with the
South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP). A minimum of
7 years of appropriate experience in social work after registration as a social
worker with the SACSSP. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Job-
237
related knowledge; analytic and diagnostic tools, assessment tools, evaluation
methods, and processes. Personnel Management, Supervision Framework for
Social Workers, and Social Work Legislation Related to Children. Social work
theory and interventions; Information and knowledge management, protocol,
and professional ethics. Job-Related Skills: Organizing and planning; project
planning; psychosocial intervention; communication and language (2 official
languages of the Western Cape Government); People management practices;
interpersonal, report writing, computer literacy, presentation and facilitation,
problem solving and analytical, and client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : To ensure that a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection,
and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families, and communities
through the relevant programs is rendered, Attend to any other matters that
could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form. Supervise employees
engaged in these functions; This would include the following actions: Conduct
assessments that are problematic for supervisees, aimed at identifying
conditions in individuals, groups, families, and communities that justify relevant
interventions. Ensure that the appropriate recommendations and interventions
required to address the conditions are identified. Ensure the development and
planning of programs to render the recommended interventions efficiently,
effectively, and economically. Ensure that the recommended interventions are
implemented by supervisees by providing continuous support, counselling,
guidance, and advice to supervisees. Monitor and evaluate the effectiveness
of the recommended interventions; Ensure reporting on progress and identify
further/amended interventions to address the identified conditions; Study,
interpret, apply, and give guidance on legislation and policies in the identified
work fields to supervisors and other role players/stakeholders. Perform
statutory functions that are problematic for supervisees relating to the relevant
function, compile court reports, and attend to court inquiries and the other tasks
emanating from these matters. Ensure that records of social work
interventions, processes, and outcomes are produced and maintained. Ensure
implementation and compliance with all standard operating procedures and
sector norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Siljeur- @ Elarna.Siljeur@westerncape.gov.za
POST 17/345 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD 31/2026
(VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN ATHLONE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R338 208 – R397 668 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R413 004 – R478 395 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R496 668 – R583 833 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R608 859 – R754 785 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in social work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as a social worker: Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a social worker, Grade 1: No
experience. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years' appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years' appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years of appropriate experience in social work after registration as a social
worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions; A valid
Code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Supervision Framework for Social Workers; Human behaviour and social
systems and skills to intervene at the points where people interact with their
environments in order to promote social well-being; Social work theory and
interventions; Information and knowledge management, protocol and
professional ethics, Relevant legislation, policies, and prescripts (norms and
standards); social dynamics, work values, and principles; developing and
empowering others. Skills in the following: Challenge structural sources of
poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination, and exclusion. Written and
verbal communication, report writing, self-management, motivation, Good
planning and organizing, Problem-solving and analytical Computer literacy,
Presentation and facilitation, Client orientation and customer focus; Ability and
competence to assist, develop, advocate for, and empower individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities to enhance their social
238
functioning and their problem-solving capabilities; Ability to promote, restore,
maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of individuals, families,
groups and communities by enabling them to accomplish tasks, prevent and
alleviate distress and use resources effectively; Understanding and ability to
provide social work services towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at
risk and unable to protect themselves; Ability to mentor and coach Social
Workers Grade 1 Good communication skills, Report-writing skills, Self-
management skills; Motivation skills; Good planning and organizing skills;
Problem-solving and analytical skills; computer literacy, presentation and
facilitation, and client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection, and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families, and communities
through the relevant programs (casework, group work, and community work).
Attend to any other matters that could result in, or stem from, social instability
in any form; Supervise and support social auxiliary workers' continuous
professional development. Keep up-to-date with new developments in the
social work and social welfare fields. Perform all the administrative functions
required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Essop at Mehnaaz.Essop@westerncape.gov.za
POST 17/346 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD 32/2026
(VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN SWELLENDAM)
SALARY : Grade 1: R338 208 – R397 668 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R413 004 – R478 395 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R496 668 – R583 833 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R608 859 – R754 785 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : A formal tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker; Grade 1: No
experience; Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social
Worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions. A valid
Code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Relevant
legislation, policy and prescripts (norms and standards); Supervision
framework for Social Workers; Knowledge and understanding of human
behaviour and social systems as well as skills to intervene at the points where
people interact with their environments in order to promote social well-being;
Social Work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Social dynamics, work values
and principles; Developing and empowering others; Skills to challenge
structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and
exclusion; The ability and competence to assist, develop, advocate for and
empower individuals, families, groups, organisations, communities to enhance
their social functioning and their problem-solving capabilities; The ability to
promote, restore, maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of
individuals, families, groups and communities enabling them to accomplish
tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources effectively; Proven
computer literacy; Report writing skills; Self-Management skills; Good planning
and organisational skills; Presentation and facilitation skills; Client orientation
and customer focus; Understanding and ability to provide social work services
towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect
themselves.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection, and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families, and communities
through the relevant programs (casework, group work, and community work).
Attend to any other matters that could result in, or stem from, social instability
in any form; Supervise and support social auxiliary workers' continuous
professional development. Keep up-to-date with new developments in the
social work and social welfare fields. Perform all the administrative functions
required of the job.
239
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Savahl at Tasneem.Savahl@westerncape.gov.za
POST 17/347 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES (LAINGSBURG) REF NO:
DSD 33/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R338 208 – R397 668 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R413 004 – R478 395 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R496 668 – R583 833 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R608 859 – R754 785 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in social work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as a social worker: Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a social worker, Grade 1: No
experience. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years' appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years' appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years of appropriate experience in social work after registration as a social
worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions; A valid
Code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Supervision Framework for Social Workers; Human behaviour and social
systems and skills to intervene at the points where people interact with their
environments in order to promote social well-being; Social work theory and
interventions; Information and knowledge management, protocol and
professional ethics, Relevant legislation, policies, and prescripts (norms and
standards); social dynamics, work values, and principles; developing and
empowering others. Skills in the following: Challenge structural sources of
poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination, and exclusion. Written and
verbal communication, report writing, self-management, motivation, Good
planning and organizing, Problem-solving and analytical Computer literacy,
Presentation and facilitation, Client orientation and customer focus; Ability and
competence to assist, develop, advocate for, and empower individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities to enhance their social
functioning and their problem-solving capabilities; Ability to promote, restore,
maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of individuals, families,
groups and communities by enabling them to accomplish tasks, prevent and
alleviate distress and use resources effectively; Understanding and ability to
provide social work services towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at
risk and unable to protect themselves; Ability to mentor and coach Social
Workers.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection, and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families, and communities
through the relevant programs (casework, group work, and community work).
Attend to any other matters that could result in, or stem from, social instability
in any form; Supervise and support social auxiliary workers' continuous
professional development. Keep up-to-date with new developments in the
social work and social welfare fields. Perform all the administrative functions
required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Stadler at sofia.stadler@westerncape.gov.za
POST 17/348 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES (KHAYELITSHA) REF NO:
DSD 34/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R338 208 – R397 668 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R413 004 – R478 395 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R496 668 – R583 833 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R608 859 – R754 785 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in social work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as a social worker: Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a social worker, Grade 1: No
experience. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years' appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years' appropriate
240
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years of appropriate experience in social work after registration as a social
worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions; A valid
Code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Supervision Framework for Social Workers; Human behaviour and social
systems and skills to intervene at the points where people interact with their
environments in order to promote social well-being; Social work theory and
interventions; Information and knowledge management, protocol and
professional ethics; Relevant legislation, policies, and prescripts (norms and
standards); Social dynamics, work values, and principles; Developing and
empowering others. Skills in the following: Challenge structural sources of
poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination, and exclusion; Written and
verbal communication; Report writing; Self-management; Motivation, Good
planning and organizing, Problem-solving and analytical Computer literacy;
Presentation and facilitation; Client orientation and customer focus; Ability and
competence to assist, develop, advocate for, and empower individuals,
families, groups, organizations, and communities to enhance their social
functioning and their problem-solving capabilities; Ability to promote, restore,
maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of individuals, families,
groups and communities by enabling them to accomplish tasks, prevent and
alleviate distress and use resources effectively; Understanding and ability to
provide social work services towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at
risk and unable to protect themselves; Ability to mentor and coach Social
Workers.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection, and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families, and communities
through the relevant programs (casework, group work, and community work);
Attend to any other matters that could result in, or stem from, social instability
in any form; Supervise and support social auxiliary workers' continuous
professional development; Keep up-to-date with new developments in the
social work and social welfare fields; Perform all the administrative functions
required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Rebe at millicent.rebe@westerncape.gov.za
POST 17/349 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD 35/2026
(VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN HESSEQUA)
SALARY : Grade 1: R338 208 – R397 668 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R413 004 – R478 395 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R496 668 – R583 833 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R608 859 – R754 785 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in social work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as a social worker: Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a social worker, Grade 1: No
experience. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years' appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years' appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30
years of appropriate experience in social work after registration as a social
worker with the South African Council for Social Service Professions; A valid
Code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Supervision Framework for Social Workers; Human behaviour and social
systems and skills to intervene at the points where people interact with their
environments in order to promote social well-being; Social work theory and
interventions; Information and knowledge management, protocol and
professional ethics; Relevant legislation, policies, and prescripts (norms and
standards); Social dynamics, work values, and principles; Developing and
empowering others. Skills in the following: Challenge structural sources of
poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination, and exclusion; Written and
verbal communication; Report writing; Self-management; Motivation, Good
planning and organizing, Problem-solving and analytical Computer literacy;
Presentation and facilitation; Client orientation and customer focus; Ability and
competence to assist, develop, advocate for, and empower individuals,
241
families, groups, organizations, and communities to enhance their social
functioning and their problem-solving capabilities; Ability to promote, restore,
maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of individuals, families,
groups and communities by enabling them to accomplish tasks, prevent and
alleviate distress and use resources effectively; Understanding and ability to
provide social work services towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at
risk and unable to protect themselves; Ability to mentor and coach Social
Workers.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection, and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families, and communities
through the relevant programs (casework, group work, and community work);
Attend to any other matters that could result in, or stem from, social instability
in any form; Supervise and support social auxiliary workers' continuous
professional development; Keep up-to-date with new developments in the
social work and social welfare fields; Perform all the administrative functions
required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I April|@Imelda.April@westerncape.gov.za
POST 17/350 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
28/2026 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE IN KHAYELITSHA)
SALARY : Grade 1: R200 691 – R227 145 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R236 385 – R269 742 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R280 809 – R353 016 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African social welfare context: the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Uses appropriate resources
in service delivery to client systems; Implement appropriate social auxiliary
work methods and techniques to address the social needs of client systems;
Information and Knowledge Management (Keep precise records and compile
accurate reports on social needs and social auxiliary work activities and file
them appropriately; Protocol and professional ethics.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programs; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Rebe Tel No: (021) 812 0923
POST 17/351 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES
(LAINGSBURG) REF NO: DSD 29/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R200 691 – R227 145 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R236 385 – R269 742 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R280 809 – R353 016 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B-driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African social welfare context: the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Uses appropriate resources
in service delivery to client systems; Implement appropriate social auxiliary
work methods and techniques to address the social needs of client systems;
Information and Knowledge Management; Keep precise records and compile
242
accurate reports on social needs and social auxiliary work activities and file
them appropriately; Protocol and professional ethics.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programs; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Stadler @ Sophia.Stadler@westerncape.gov.za
POST 17/352 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
30/2026 (VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN SWELLENDAM)
SALARY : Grade 1: R200 691 – R227 145 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R236 385 – R269 742 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R280 809 – R353 016 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African social welfare context: the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Uses appropriate resources
in service delivery to client systems; Implement appropriate social auxiliary
work methods and techniques to address the social needs of client systems;
Information and knowledge management; keep precise records and compile
accurate reports on social needs and social auxiliary work activities and file
them appropriately; Protocol and professional ethics.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection, and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families, and communities through the relevant
departmental programs; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Savahl @ Tasneem.Savahl@westerncape.gov.za
POST 17/353 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
36/2026 (VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN ATHLONE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R200 691 – R227 145 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R236 385 – R269 742 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R280 809 – R353 016 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African social welfare context: the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Uses appropriate resources
in service delivery to client systems; Implement appropriate social auxiliary
work methods and techniques to address the social needs of client systems;
Information and Knowledge Management; Keep precise records and compile
accurate reports on social needs and social auxiliary work activities and file
them appropriately; Protocol and professional ethics.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection, and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families, and communities through the relevant
departmental programs; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
243
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Siljeur@ Elarna.Siljeur@westerncape.gov.za
POST 17/354 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
37/2026 (VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN HESSEQUA)
SALARY : Grade 1: R200 691 – R227 145 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R236 385 – R269 742 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R280 809 – R353 016 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker; A
valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African social welfare context: the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Uses appropriate resources
in service delivery to client systems; Implement appropriate social auxiliary
work methods and techniques to address the social needs of client systems;
Information and Knowledge Management; Keep precise records and compile
accurate reports on social needs and social auxiliary work activities and file
them appropriately; Protocol and professional ethics.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection, and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families, and communities through the relevant
departmental programs; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I April @ Imelda.April@westerncape.gov.za
244