PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 20 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 12 JUNE 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the
advertisements of vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the
Department is not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an
advertisement must be addressed to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the
department in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST
PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration
must not be approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the
applicable closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies.
Potential candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies
and attending where applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998
should be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote
representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding
the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 03 - 05
COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES B 06 - 10
COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE C 11 - 14
DEFENCE D 15 - 16
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR E 17 - 23
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE F 24 - 26
HEALTH G 27 - 28
HOME AFFARS H 29 - 38
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE I 39 - 41
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES J 42 - 43
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT K 44 - 55
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE L 56 - 59
OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION M 60 - 61
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE N 62 - 70
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT O 71 - 76
SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE P 77 - 86
STATISTICS SOUTH AFRICA Q 87 - 95
TOURISM R 96 - 99
TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION S 100 - 103
TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS T 104 - 105
TREASURY U 106 - 108
WATER AND SANITATION V 109 - 118
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
GAUTENG W 119 - 124
KWAZULU NATAL X 125 - 145
LIMPOPO Y 146 - 166
MPUMALANGA Z 167 - 182
NORTH WEST AA 183 - 211
WESTERN CAPE BB 212 - 263
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. NB:
Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will
be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case
shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your application before the
closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate
applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for
each post. Due to high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt
of applications. Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/01 : SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTION REF NO: 3/3/1/40/2026
Directorate: Agricultural Inputs Control
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with OSD)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and an
appropriate 4-year BSc (Honours) or equivalent in Agriculture in Soil Science
majoring in soil fertility and plant nutrition. Compulsory registration with South
African Council for Natural Scientific Professions (SACNASP) as a
Professional Natural Scientist. Minimum of 3 years post-qualification regulatory
experience. Job Related Knowledge: Expertise and experience in the
interpretation of Fertilizer, Farm Feeds, Agriculture Remedies and stock
3
Remedies Act,1947 (Act No: 36 of 1947) together with its regulations and
guidelines. Job Related Skills: Programme & project management. Scientific
methodologies and models. Ability to research and develop independently.
Legal compliance. Data analysis (high level analytical skills). Ms Office
Software (Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Technical report writing (the ability to
prepare and present complex reports). Customer service skills.
Communication skills. (verbal and written). Ability to work under pressure.
Extended working hours/overtime may be required. Travelling. A valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, systems and procedures. identify and
consolidate needs for methodologies, policies, systems and procedures by
developing administrative and compliance regulations and SOPs. Identify gaps
and develop appropriate interventions by developing guidelines and
conducting training workshops. Monitor and evaluate programme performance
and perform scientific functions that require interpretation in the absence of an
established framework by writing technical reports. Provide scientific support
and advice through client advisory meetings and via emails. Develop working
relations with client base during liaison meetings with clients. Create public
awareness of the science system through liaison with stakeholders. Provie
scientific data, information and advice as requested by responding to technical
enquiries. Perform scientific analysis and regulatory functions. Conduct
analysis of scientific data during the evaluation of applications to register
fertilizers. Gather and interpret data, evaluate results and disseminate
information by publishing information packages. Formulate proposals and
compile reports by writing technical submissions when required. Develop and
customise scientific models and techniques by contributing to the technical
aspects of regulations. Compile technical reports. Research and Development.
Continuous professional development to keep up with new technologies and
procedures by attending technical workshops and conferences.
Research/literature studies to improve expertise by reading technical
publications. Publish and present research findings; and liaise with relevant
bodies /councils, industries, government departments and other stakeholders
on science and regulatory related matters. Human Capital and Development.
Mentor, train and develop candidate scientist and others to promote
skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound scientific principles and code
of practice. Customer Service Management. Continuous professional
development. To keep up with new technologies and procedures by attending
technical workshops and conferences. Research /literature studies to improve
expertise by residing publications. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils,
industries, government departments and other stakeholders on science and
regulatory related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G. Moncho Tel No: (012) 319 7169
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
STrecruit40@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Targets: African Males and Females, and persons with disability.
POST 20/02 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION REF NO:3/3/1/41/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Genetic Resources (Variety Control)
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive package to be structure in
accordance the OSD rules)
CENTRE : Western Cape: Stellenbosch
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate and BSc (Hon) or M
Tech with Botany, Agronomy, Horticulture, Genetics and / or Plant
Biotechnology as a major subject. Compulsory registration with South African
Council for Natural Scientific Professions (SACNSP) as a Professional Natural
Scientist. Job Related Work Experience: A minimum of three (3) years’ post
qualification in the field of botany, plant taxonomy, plant breeding or
administration of legislation related to Agriculture. Plant Breeders’ Rights Act.
Plant Improvement Act. UPOV Convention. Plant Morphology and Physiology.
Statistics. Job Related Skills: Computer skills (MS Office). Problem skills,
Communication skills. Conflict management oral and written communication
skills. Planning and organization skills. Knowledge and operation of laboratory
apparatus. Numeracy, mathematical and statistical skills. Problem-solving
skills. Research, Plant variety evaluations, Analytical skills. Ability to work
effectively and efficiently. Valid driver’s license.
4
DUTIES : Develop and implement relevant systems and procedures. Verifying
applications and technical questionnaires submitted by applicants in terms of
the Plant Breeding’s Rights Act and the Plant Improvement Act. Establishment
of trials in collaboration with the directorate’s farm Manager, applicant or their
appointed agent as applicable. Identify location of all candidates and
comparative varieties/ liaise with farm manager on field identification. Engage
with clients on matters related to their applications and do site visits. Perform
technical scientific analysis. Collect data on candidates and standard varieties
according to prescribed guidelines. Observation and evaluation of candidates
to the International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants (UPOV)
or National Test guidelines as applicable. Variety characterisation and
documentation. Data analysis on candidates and standard varieties. Compile
variety descriptions and DUS reports for candidates’ varieties. Confirm that
candidates’ varieties comply to prescribed DUS requirements in terms of the
relevant legislation. Data processing. Provide technical support and advice.
Collect and provide technical/scientific data, information and advice to
Registrars and Plant Improvement organisations. Provide technical support
and advice to applicants in relations to Technical Questionnaires submitted in
terms of the Plant Breeder’s Rights Act and the Plant Improvement Act.
Research and development. Draft and/ or provide input to UPOV and / provide
to UPOV and / or national test guidelines. Review and study scientific
publications, including internet searches, relevant to received PBR/VL
applications. Participate at national, regional and international for a. Liaise with
relevant scientific bodies on technical /science related matters and exchange
of knowledge thereof. Ensure management of reference collections. Ensure
proper management of filling system and crop and seed registers. Conduct or
participate in research pertaining to variety characters or ring tests as
applicable.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SJ Ndlazi Tel No: (012) 319 6086
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
STrecruit41@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African, Indian, White Males and African, Indian Females and
Persons with disability.
5
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES
The Department is an equal opportunity organisation and intends to promote equity through the filling of
these posts. Candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote the achievement of
employment equity within the Department will receive preference, in particular, the persons with
disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
link quoted in the specific advertisement below. This link requires applicants to
use a Google account. Applications must be submitted with two (2)
attachments: 1. A Z83 Form (2021 version), obtainable from the DPSA website
(Z83 editable) and 2. A recently updated comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. If
either of these two attachments are not submitted, the applicant’s application
will be disqualified. Each post advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialed and
signed by the applicant.
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026
NOTE : Applications received after the closing date will not be considered. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications obtained and other related documents on or before the day of the
interview, following communication from Human Resources and will be
subjected to verification by the South African Qualifications Authority.
Candidates in possession of a foreign qualification must also provide an
evaluation certificate issued by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA), at own expense. Failure to submit the requested documents will result
in the application not being considered further. Due to the anticipated large
volume of responses, correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other will be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. After the pre-entry assessments, an oral
interview will be conducted. Suitable candidates will be subjected to personnel
suitability checks (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). By responding to the
advertisement, applicants consent to the collection, processing and storing of
their Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA) Act No. 4 of 2013. Candidates will therefore be
required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department
to conduct the verifications. Information will be used for the purpose of
recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy
you have applied for and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent, unless required by law. All applicants must declare any conflict or
perceived conflict of interest and must disclose membership on Boards and
directorships associated with. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months of the closing date, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The CVs submitted will be destroyed as legislated in the National
Archives Act. In the event that your application is unsuccessful, the Department
will retain your personal information only for audit purposes as required by
policies. All the information requested now or during the process is required for
recruitment purposes. Failure to provide the requested information will result in
your application not being considered further. The Department reserves the
right not to make an appointment to the advertised post(s). The successful
candidate must disclose particulars of all registrable financial interests and sign
an employment contract within one month from the date of assumption of duty.
A Performance Agreement must be concluded and signed within three months
from the date of assumption of duty. Note for applicants of SMS posts:
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, available as
an online course on https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to the finalization of the appointment, is a requirement for all
SMS positions. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection
panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment, using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
6
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/03 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CYBERSECURITY AND INTERNET GOVERNANCE
REF NO: CDCSIG
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to oversee the operation and provision of
cybersecurity and internet governance services in line with the mandate and
strategic requirements of the department.
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Information Security / Computer
Science / Telecommunication or relevant equivalent qualification as recognised
by the South African Qualifications Authority. A minimum of five (5) years’
experience in a Cybersecurity Frameworks / ICT Risk Management /
Regulatory Compliance environment at a senior managerial level. Skills /
Competencies and Knowledge: At an advanced level in - Strategic Capability
and Leadership, Government Administrative Processes, People Management
and Empowerment, Programme and Project Management, Financial
Management, Change Management, Problem Solving and Analysis Customer
Focus, Stakeholder Engagement and Relationship Management. Technical
Competencies: Cybersecurity Strategy, ICT Policy Development, Internet
Governance Expertise, Network Security Architecture, ICT Incident Response
Management, ICT Crisis Management, ICT Risk Management, ICT Threat
Intelligence, Regulatory Compliance.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be overseeing the creation and enforcement of
internet governance policies, ensuring they support the secure, resilient, and
effective management of South Africa’s internet infrastructure. Oversee the
development and implementation of a comprehensive national cybersecurity
strategy that addresses emerging threats and aligns with global standards.
Ensuring the protection and security of national network infrastructures, with a
focus on safeguarding critical information systems and data. Oversee the
establishment and management of the national incident response framework,
coordinating efforts to detect, respond to, and mitigate the impact of cyber
threats and attacks. Establish and maintain strong relationships with public and
private sector partners, international organisations, and civil society to enhance
national and regional cybersecurity collaboration. Ensuring that cybersecurity
and internet governance initiatives are in compliance with both national and
international legal and regulatory requirements. Oversee initiatives to enhance
cybersecurity skills and awareness across government institutions, private
industry, and the broader public through training programs and awareness
campaigns. Regularly assessing and refining cybersecurity strategies, policies,
and incident response plans to ensure their effectiveness and continued
relevance to emerging threats. Oversee Performance of state owned entities.
Contributing to key result areas such as strategic functional leadership,
manage financial resources, driving change and operational excellence and
manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sekele Tel No: (012) 427 8599, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Mr
M Cilo at 068 227 5029
APPLICATIONS : application link: CLICK HERE
POST 20/04 : DIRECTOR: INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: DIRIC
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to manage and drive the provision of internal
communication and language services.
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Communications / Advertising /
Marketing / Public Relations / Media Relation / Graphic Design or relevant
equivalent qualification as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in Communications / Media
7
environment at middle / senior managerial level. Skills / Competencies and
Knowledge: At an advanced level - Strategic Capability and Leadership,
Government Administrative Processes, People Management and
Empowerment, Programme and Project Management, Financial Management,
Change Management, Stakeholder Engagement and Relationship
Management, Problem Solving and Analytic Skills. Technical Competencies:
Graphic Design, Speech Writing, Advertising, Content Curation, Campaigning,
Digital Information Platforms Management, Website Design, Editing.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will manage and drive the development, review, and
implementation of strategic frameworks, policies, and an integrated internal
communication strategy aligned with the Department’s strategic objectives.
Manage and drive continuous improvement of internal communication
platforms such as the intranet, newsletters, internal bulletins, emails, and digital
collaboration tools to facilitate timely information sharing. Manage and design
operational frameworks, innovative tools, channels, systems and platforms to
enable internal communication workflow, employee participation and
engagement and reporting thereof. Develop and manage employee
engagement and internal and events management programmes and plans to
foster an effective communication environment. Coordinate the planning and
dissemination of internal campaigns, announcements, and key organisational
messages to ensure consistency, clarity, and impact across the Department.
Manage and drive editorial and language management services in terms of the
Language Act and provide creative design services. Provide communication
support to the Executive Authority and senior management by preparing
internal messages, speeches, talking points, and announcements to enhance
leadership visibility and transparency. Ensure that all internal communication
content is accurate, consistent, aligned with departmental messaging, and
compliant with government communication standards and protocols. Monitor
and evaluate the effectiveness of internal communication initiatives through
feedback mechanisms, surveys, and analytics, and implement improvements
where necessary. Contributing to key result areas such as strategic functional
leadership, manage human resources, manage financial resources, driving
change and operational excellence and manage compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sekele Tel No: (012) 427 8599, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Mr
M Cilo at 068 227 5029
APPLICATIONS : application link: CLICK HERE
POST 20/05 : DIRECTOR: DIGITAL ECONOMY STRATEGIC FORECASTING REF NO:
DIRDESF
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to manage and drive digital economy strategic
forecasting and ICT policy indicators services in line with the mandate and
strategic requirements of the department.
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Economics / Econometrics / Public
Administration / Developmental Studies / Business Administration / Statistics
or relevant equivalent qualification as recognised by the South African
Qualifications Authority. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in ICT Policy
Development environment at middle / senior managerial level. Skills /
Competencies and Knowledge: At an advanced level in Strategy and Planning,
People Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project
Management, Change Management, Financial Management, Project
Management. Technical Competencies: Quantitative Modelling, Econometrics,
Predictive Analytics, Technological Foresight, Measurement of Digitalisation,
Socio-Economic Impact Analysis, Digital Policy Development.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will manage and drive the development, review, and
implementation of strategic frameworks and policies to advance the digital
economy modelling and forecasting, ensuring alignment with national priorities,
government policies, and global digital transformation trends. Conduct
foresight and predictive analysis on emerging technologies, digital markets,
and global digital economy trends to inform policy formulation and long-term
planning. Manage and drive research initiatives and analytical studies that
generate evidence to support digital economy policy development, regulatory
8
frameworks, and strategic decision-making. Monitor and analyse
developments in emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence,
blockchain, data economy, and digital platforms to assess their impact on
economic growth and policy direction. Develop tools to measuring ICT access
and use by household and individuals. Facilitate collaboration with government
departments, industry stakeholders, research institutions, and international
partners to strengthen digital economy initiatives and knowledge sharing.
Manage and coordinate strategic programmes and projects related to digital
economy forecasting, ensuring effective implementation, monitoring, and
evaluation of initiatives. Develop and manage knowledge products, reports,
and policy briefs on digital economy developments, and provide regular
strategic reports to executive management and relevant governance
structures. Provide strategic advice on the alignment of digital economy
policies with national development plans, regional frameworks, and
international digital governance standards. Contributing to key result areas
such as project management, manage financial resources, driving change and
operational excellence and manage compliance. Develop high-level
presentations related to the duties at international, regional and national
spheres on behalf of the department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sekele Tel No: (012) 427 8599, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Mr
M Cilo at 068 227 5029
APPLICATIONS : application link: CLICK HERE
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/06 : ENTITY OVERSIGHT INTEGRATED REPORTING ANALYST REF NO:
EOIRA
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to provide entity oversight integrated reporting
services.
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Internal Auditing / Law / Accounting
/ Financial Accounting / Management Accounting or relevant equivalent
qualification as recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority. A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience of which three (3) years should be at an
Assistant Director level / middle managerial or equivalent working experience
in Corporate Governance and Oversight environment. Skills / Competencies
and Knowledge: Core competencies: Job Knowledge, Quality of Work,
Initiatives, Planning and Executions, Communication, Teamwork, Reliability,
Analytical and Problem-Solving Skills, Service Delivery Innovation. Technical
Competencies: Data Management, Data Analytics, Stakeholder Management
and Engagement, Basic Commercial and Company Law, Corporate
Governance, Entity Oversight Compliance Frameworks, Entity Compliance
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation, Basic Financial Accounting, Basic
Management Accounting.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will Proactive engagements and interventions,
comparison of reports, identifying trends emerging across the entities. Develop
and maintain entity oversight reporting framework and processes to ensure a
common and integrated reporting approach. Design and monitor adherence to
the entity oversight reporting schedule/programme and ensure compliance by
entity performance oversight functional units. Collaborate with Finance,
Monitoring and Evaluation and entity performance oversight functional units to
ensure that all reporting requirements and targets are met. Analyse entity
oversight reports submitted to Finance and Monitoring and Evaluation units
and prepare and submit quarterly and annual integrated entity oversight reports
to the Minister and the Accounting Officer. Present the consolidated reports at
CEO/Chairpersons’ Forum and follow-up on parliamentary questions relating
to entity oversight reporting with the branches, resolutions and actions based
on the feedback from the AO and the Minister. Consolidate the feedback and
share with the Branches the feedback for the response letters to the entities.
Support the Accounting Officer in facilitating non-compliance consequence
management. Support the functional units in various internal and external
structures to identify entity oversight requirements, commonalities, leading
9
practices and areas for improvement. Empower, guide and advise officials on
entity oversight reporting. Contributing to key result areas such as project
management, managing financial resources, driving change and operational
excellence and managing compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sekele Tel No: (012) 427 8599, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Mr
M Cilo at 068 227 5029
APPLICATIONS : application link: CLICK HERE
POST 20/07 : SENIOR EMPLOYEE AND HEALTH AND WELLNESS MANAGEMENT
OFFICER REF NO: SEHWMO
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to coordinate and provide employee health and
wellness services, including the provision of counselling services to
employees.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 6 / 7 qualification in Social Work / Psychology or a
relevant equivalent qualification as recognised by the South African
Qualifications Authority. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in delivering
Health and Wellness Services. Registration with relevant professional bodies
such as the Health Professions Council of South Africa / South African Council
for Social Service Professions (SACSSP). Skills / Competencies and
Knowledge: Good Computer Skills (MS Package i.e. word, excel, powerpoint,
internet and email), Listening, Planning and Organization, Good Verbal and
Written Communication, Records Management, Interpersonal Relations,
Flexibility. Technical Competencies: Employee Assistance, Health and
Wellness Strategic Framework, Counselling, Public Service, Behavioural
Management, Crisis and Trauma Management, Report Writing.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will evaluate and implement interventions for
employees that aim to improve mental health and well-being, build on existing
strengths, and increase levels of resilience. Support processes and facilitate
the implementation of an effective and efficient Employee Health and Wellness
(EHW), HIV/AIDS, STI and TB Management Programmes. Assist in planning,
coordinating and facilitating the implementation of EHW framework as per the
Public Service Strategic Framework. Identify, report and provide information on
Employee Health and Wellness (EHW), HIV/AIDS, STI and TB Management
Programmes. Liaise with relevant organisations, professional service providers
and relevant stakeholders on issues relating to Employee Health and Wellness,
HIV/AIDS, STI and TB Management. Promote and keep accurate records of
individual engagement, evidence of change and recognise progress of
employees enrolled with the service provider. Render psycho-social
interventions, including providing one-on-one counselling, coaching and
support services for employees dealing with work-related issues. Ensure
compliance with statutory requirements in line with the DPSA EHWM and due
dates. Conduct needs assessments and surveys to gauge organizational
health and recommend interventions. Contributing to key result areas such as
driving change and operational excellence and ensuring compliance with the
relevant public service prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Sekele Tel No: (012) 427 8599, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Mr
M Cilo at 068 227 5029
APPLICATIONS : application link: CLICK HERE
10
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE
The vision of the Department of Cooperative Governance is one of having a well co-ordinated system of
Government consisting of National, Provincial and Local spheres working together to achieve
sustainable development and service delivery. The Department intends to invest in human capital,
increase integrated technical capacity directed at service delivery and promote representivity in the
Department through the filling of this post. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026
NOTE : Applicants are advised that a new application for employment (Z83) has been
in effect since 1 January 2021. The new application for employment form can
be downloaded at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications
submitted using the old Z83 form will not be accepted. Applications must be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV, with specific starting and ending dates
in all relevant positions and clarity on the levels and ranks pertaining to
experience, as well as current remuneration package, as well as at least 2
contactable references. A recommended CV template is available on the
department’s website on www.cogta.gov.za, click on the jobs tab. Only
shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit certified documents/ copies
on or before the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Incomplete applications or applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the
interview and technical exercise(s), the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Core competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership.
People management and empowerment. Advanced programme and project
management. Change management. Financial management. Process
Competencies: Knowledge management. Service Delivery Innovation.
Advanced problem-solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer
focus. Advanced communication skills (written and verbal). The successful
candidate will be appointed to positive results of a pre-employment screening
process which includes criminal, credit, citizenship checks and verification of
educational qualification certificates. The successful candidate will be
appointed to probation for a period of 12 months and will be required to sign a
performance agreement. It is important to note that it is the applicant’s
responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments in support of the
application are submitted by the due date. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right to make
an appointment. The requirements for appointment at Senior Management
Service level include the successful completion of Senior Management Pre-
entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, which
can be accessed using the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Candidates must provide proof of
successful completion of the course prior to appointment. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/08 : DIRECTOR: DEMARCATION AND STRUCTURES IMPLEMENTATION REF
NO: DDSI
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
11
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law or equivalent qualification (NQF 7 as
recognised by SAQA). At least 5 years’ relevant experience at middle / senior
management level in the relevant field. Proficiency in MS Word. The Nyukela
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme is to be completed before
appointment to the post. A valid driver’s license. Intensive travelling. Additional
Requirements (Advantage) MS PowerPoint and MS Project. Core
Competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership. People management and
empowerment. Programme and project management. Financial management.
Change management. Knowledge management. Service delivery innovation.
Problem solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer focus.
Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies: Extensive
knowledge in: Local government legislation (system and structures). Public
Service local government transformation. Monitoring and evaluation
techniques. Policy formulation. Cooperative Governance.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Develop policy
interventions to improve the implementation of the Local Government
Municipal Demarcation Act, 1998, and the Local Government Municipal
Structures Act, 1998. Provide strategic support to the processes of local
government elections and other related matters, including the provision of
technical support and advice on the determination and redetermination of
municipal boundaries and matters relating to the alternation of provincial
boundaries. Support municipalities in relation to promoting sound financial
governance, ensure positive audit outcomes and strengthen council oversight
responsibilities over the executive and administration that promote good
governance in municipalities, including ensuring proper functioning of MPAC’s,
EXCO / MAYCO, Section 79/79A and Section 80 Committees of Councils
established in accordance with the Municipal Structures Act, 1998. Ensure
adherence and implementation of the Code of Conduct for Councilors and lead
the development of policy and legislation in relation to Sections 100 and 139
of the Constitution. Support the management / administration of the Municipal
Systems Improvement Grant (MSIG) and administer gratuity payments to non-
returning Councilors.
ENQUIRIES : Adv M Dunckle-Kock Tel No: (012) 395 4614
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to ddsi@ntirho.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Ms Vanessa Cox Tel No: (010) 593 1998
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/09 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEMARCATION AND STRUCTURES
IMPLEMENTATION REF NO: DD-DSI-01
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : 3-Year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Public Administration /
Development Studies or equivalent qualification at NQF 6/7 as recognised by
SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in a related field. Proficient in MS Excel and MS
Word. A valid driver’s license and travelling. Additional Requirements
(Advantage): MS PowerPoint. Generic Competencies: Planning and
organizing. Coordination. Problem solving and decision making. Project
management. People management and empowerment. Client orientation and
customer focus. Team leadership. Diversity management. Communication
(verbal and written). Technical Competencies: In-depth knowledge of: Local
Government: Municipal Structures Act. Local Government: Municipal Systems
Act. Local Government: Municipal Demarcation Act. Local Government:
Municipal Electoral Act. Constitution. Monitoring and support techniques.
Interpretation and analysis techniques.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage and
provide technical support and expert advice on the processes on the
determination and redetermination of municipal boundaries. Manage the
processes of local government elections and other electoral-related matters,
including making proposals around the administration of national and provincial
elections. Manage and provide technical support towards the development of
policy interventions to improve the Local Government: Municipal Demarcation
Act, 1998 and Local Government: Municipal Structures Act, 1998 and related
Regulations. Manage the development of the formulae for the determination of
the number of councilors in terms of Section 20 of the Local Government:
Municipal Structures Act, 1998. Manage the processes relating to the alteration
12
of provincial boundaries, including developing national legislation to deal with
transition matters.
ENQUIRIES : Adv M Dunckle-Kock Tel No: (012) 395 4614
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
dcog15@tttrecruitment.co.za
For application enquiries contact: To the T Recruitment at 067 391 7387
POST 20/10 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DEMARCATION AND STRUCTURES
IMPLEMENTATION REF NO: ASD-DSI-02
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : 3 year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Public Administration /
Development Studies or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised
by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in a related field. A driver’s license and
travelling. Proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word. Generic Competencies:
Planning and organising. Coordination. Problem solving and decision making.
Project management. People management and empowerment. Client
orientation and customer focus. Team leadership. Diversity management.
Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies: In-depth
knowledge of: Municipal Structures Act. Municipal Systems Act. Municipal
Finance Management Act. Constitution. Monitoring and support techniques.
Interpretation and analysis techniques.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Coordinate and
monitor the functionality of Municipal Public Accounts Committees (MPACs).
Develop and implement the municipal governance assessment tool. Facilitate
the training initiatives and workshops to municipal councils on performance of
their oversight roles and responsibilities (executive and administration) to
promote good governance. Assist municipalities in the development of
Municipal By-Laws, Council Standing Rules and Orders and other governance
related matters. Draft and compile the memorandums, responses to enquiries,
referrals and Parliamentary Questions pertinent to the implementation of
provisions of the Local Government Municipal Structures Act.
ENQUIRIES : Adv M Dunckle-Kock Tel No: (012) 395 4614
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
dcog16@tttrecruitment.co.za
For application enquiries contact: To the T Recruitment at 067 391 7387
POST 20/11 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: DISASTER PREPAREDNESS,
RESPONSE AND RECOVERY COORDINATION REF NO: SAO2
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : 3-Year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Disaster Management /
Development Studies / Environmental / Social Sciences or equivalent
qualification at NQF 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 2-3 years’ experience in a
related field. Proficient in MS Excel and MS Word. A valid driver’s license and
travelling. Generic Competencies: Quality of work. Reliability. Initiative.
Communication. Interpersonal relations. Teamwork. Planning and execution.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Assist in the
development and implementation of guidelines and templates on disaster
damage assessments, classification and declaration process. Assist in the
development and implementation of mechanisms for funding disaster
management, guidelines and frameworks. Assist in the development of
national seasonal contingency plans. Assist in the coordination of
Intergovernmental Structures for preparedness, response and recovery work.
Provide secretariat functions to Disaster Response Coordination structures
and engagements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Pitso Tel No: (012) 848 4606
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
response1@multilead.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Mr. S Ndlovu Tel No: (011) 763 1103
POST 20/12 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SERVICES REF NO:
ST1
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
13
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : 3 Year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Accounting or Financial
Management or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by
SAQA. 2-3 years relevant experience in the finance field. Proficiency in Micro-
Software Office packages (MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Teams, MS Excel
and Outlook etc.) BAS and LOGIS. Generic Competencies: Quality of work.
Reliability. Initiative. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Teamwork.
Planning and execution. Technical Competencies: LOGIS. Public Finance
Management Act, 1999 (Act No. 1 of 1999) and the Treasury Regulations.
General ledger reconciliation and analysis. Basic Accounting System (BAS).
Creditor payments. Microsoft Excel.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Final authorisation
of payments and journals on BAS and LOGIS. Clearing suspense accounts.
Administer revenue, receipt and petty cash. Administer travel agency account
and creditors reconciliation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Ndou Tel No: (012) 065 3354
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
response2@multilead.co.za
For application enquiries contact: Mr. S Ndlovu Tel No: (011) 763 1103
14
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Directorate Legal Services Division, Private Bag X161,
Pretoria, 0001 or may be hand delivered at Armscor Building, Corner Nossob
and Boeing Street, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria or email to
Mafemo.Majutla@dod.mil.za
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026 at 16h00 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed
copies will not be considered).
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan. Applications must
be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from any Public Service
Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an application be received
using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will be disqualified, which
must be originally signed and dated by the applicant, and which must be
accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the applicants’
training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience). Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must
be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score
both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process.
Additional to this, SMS shortlisted candidates will be required to attend a
generic managerial competency assessment (competency-based
assessments) and other assessment prescribed for SMS as mandated by the
Department of Public Service and Administration Senior Management Service
competency assessment tools. The competency assessment will be limited to
successful candidates in the interview process only. Shortlisted candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (pre-employment screening)
which may include social media profiles checks. A successful candidate will
have to undergo a full security vetting while in the employ of the department
and negative outcome shall nullify employment contract. Failure to submit the
required documents will result in your application not being considered.
Successful candidates will be required to disclose their financial interests within
one (1) month of appointment. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or
feedback within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated,
receipt of applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job
description(s) please contact the person indicated in the post details.
Successful candidates will be appointed on probation for the period of twelve
(12) months in terms of the prescribed rules.
15
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/13 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: DLSD/19/20/26/01 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Proficiency in Microsoft, Office suits, Excel.
Good communication (Verbal and Written), Co-ordination, Planning and
Organisational skills. Flexibility, Team work Interpersonal relationship skills,
Problem solving, Maintain discipline.
DUTIES : Render clerical services to the Military Legal Services, perform a variety of
routine directive intensive clerical duties. Handle less complicated routine
correspondence, processing documents (letters notice, memorandum and
submission etc, in relation to the Division functional activities. Answer
telephone, make telephone calls on behalf of the Officer in charge and canilise
telephone calls. Take notes and type documents of the Officer in charge.
Submit the inland, expenditure and accommodation claims. Keep the Officer in
charge diary and remind any meeting. Receive visitors and arrange
refreshments. File documents. Perform a variety miscellaneous task for the
Officer in charge such as compile and type letters of thanks and to accept,
address or decline invitations. Perform elementary calculations and maintain
and issue statistics. Receive and transmit message with a fax machine.
ENQUIRIES : Col E.O. Mothupi Tel No: (012) 355 5383, Lt Col A. Everitt Tel No: (012) 355
5334
POST 20/14 : SECRETARY REF NO: DLSD/19/20/26/02 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Armscor Building, Erasmuskloof, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Proficiency in Microsoft, Office suits, Excel.
Professional attitude and appearance. Solid written and verbal communication
skills. Excellent organisational skills. Good etiquette, sound organisational
skills, High level of reliability, ability to act with tact and discretion.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Director. Receive
telephonic calls and refers the call to the correct role players if not meant for
the relevant Director. Record appointments and events on a diary. Type
documents for the Director and other staff within the unit. Operate office
equipment e.g. Fax machine, scanner and photocopier. Record appointments
and events. Provide secretarial support services to the Director, liaise with
travel agencies to make travel arrangements. Check the arrangements when
relevant documents are received. Arrange meetings and events for Director
and staff in the unit. Identifies venues, invite roles players, organise
refreshments, sets up for scheduled meeting and events. Process the travel
and subsistence claims for the Director. Process all invoices that emanates
from the activities of the work of the Director. Record basic minutes of the
meetings of the Director where required. Draft routine correspondence and
reports. Do filing of documents for the Director and the unit where necessary.
Administer matters like leave registers, telephonic accounts and attendance
register. Receive, record and distribute all incoming and outgoing documents
etc. Handle the procurement of standard items like office refreshment for the
Director. Collect all relevant documents to enable the Director to prepare for
meetings. Remain up to date with regards to prescripts / policies and
procedures applicable to her / his work environment to ensure efficient and
effective support to the Director. Study relevant Public Service and the
departmental prescripts / policies and other documents to ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly. Remain abreast with the
procedures and processes that apply in the office of the Director. Prepare
briefing and notes for the Director as required. Keep manual filing system for
the Director. Maintain an electronic document management database.
ENQUIRIES : Col E.O. Mothupi Tel No: (012) 355 5383, Lt Col A. Everitt Tel No: (012) 355
5334
16
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one attachment. Zipped, IMG and JPEG
documents will not be accepted. indicate the correct job title and the reference
number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email
address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act(POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/15 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: WORK-SEEKER REGISTRATION REF NO: HR4/4/6/4
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: KwaZulu-Natal
REQUIREMENTS : A Qualification at NQF 6 as recognised by South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) in Social Sciences (Psychology)/ Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)/ Public
17
Administration/ Public Management/ Business Administration/ Business
Management. Five (5) years’ experience of which two (2) years at the assistant
Director level and three (3) years functional experience in Public Employment
Services (PES) Programmes. Knowledge: ILO Convention. Financial
Management. Human Resource Management. Recruitment and Selection.
Immigration Act, Employment Service Act. Compensation for occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act. PFMA. Public Service Act. Skills: Planning and
Organizing. Communication. Computer. Analytical. Presentation. People
Management. Interpersonal. Leadership. Networking. Report Writing.
Information management.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of work seeker registration within the province. Manage
the provision of employer service within the Province. Manage implementation
of work schemes for the purpose of enabling youth and other vulnerable work
seekers to enter employment, remain in employment or be self -employed.
Provide operational and technical support to labour centre for the effective
delivery of Public Employment Services. Manage the implementation of
Policies, Standard Operating Procedures, Annual performance plan and work
plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Maseko Tel No: (031) 366 2246
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Human Resource Management, Provincial Office, Durban,
4001 Or hand deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For Online
Application: Jobs-KZN8@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to African female, Indians, Whites and
Coloured Females.
POST 20/16 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REF NO: HR4/4/05/26
HO
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6)/Undergraduate bachelor’s degree
(NQF 7) in the Social Science/ Labour Relations/ Human Resource
Management/ Bachelor of Law (LLB)/ Public Administration/ Public
Management. Five (5) years' experience of which two (2) years at middle
management/ Assistant Director Level and three (3) years functional
experience in Labour Relations/ Human Resources Management/ Law. A valid
driver’s licence. Knowledge: Public service transformation and management
issues, White Paper on transformation of Public Service, Public Service Act,
Ability to convert policy into action, Public Service Regulations and relevant
prescripts, Departmental Policies and procedures, Accounting systems and
internal Control, Batho Pele principles. Skills: Project Management,
Administration and Financial Management, Interpersonal relations, Problem-
solving skills, Verbal and written communication, Ability to build high-
performance teams, Analytical, Conflict management skills, Innovative,
Computer Literacy, Communication skills, Project management, Management
Skills.
DUTIES : Manage and regulate the registration of labour organisations. Monitor
compliance of labour organisations in terms of legislation. Develop the
extension of collective agreements. Strengthen the capacity of labour market
institutions. Manage resources of the Sub-Directorate such as HR, assets, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Rathai Tel No: (012) 309 4634
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X117,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ18@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets-Priority will be given to African Males, Coloureds, Indians, People
living with disabilities and Whites.
POST 20/17 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REF NO
HR4/4/06/26HO (X4 POSTS)
(X1 Post) is a re-advertisement, to an advert referenced HR4/26/02/01HO,
applicants who previously applied must re-apply)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6)/Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in the Social Science/ Labour Relations/ Human Resource
Management/ Bachelor of Law (LLB)/ Public Administration/ Public
18
Management. Four (4) years' experience of which two (2) years at Supervisory
Level and two (2) years functional experience in Labour Relations/ Human
Resources Management/ Law. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Public
service transformation and management issues, White Paper on
transformation of Public Service, Public Service Act, Ability to convert policy
into action, Public Service Regulations and relevant prescripts, Departmental
Policies and procedures, accounting systems and internal Control, Batho Pele
principles. Skills: Project Management, Administration and Financial
Management, Interpersonal skills, Problem-solving skills, Verbal and written
communication, Ability to build high-performance teams, Analytical Skills,
Conflict Analytical, Innovative, Computer Literacy, Communication,
Management Skills.
DUTIES : Develop and monitor the registration of labour organization. Obtain information
to monitor compliance of labour organisations in terms of legislation. Develop
and monitor the extension of collective agreements. Strengthen the capacity of
labour market institutions. Manage resources of the Sub-Directorate such as
HR, assets, etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Ngwetjana Tel No: (012) 309 4112
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X117,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ12@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets-Priority will be given to African Males, Coloureds, Indians, People
living with disabilities and Whites.
POST 20/18 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER -POLICY REF NO: HR4/26/06/03 HO
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) in Human Management/Public Management/Public
Administration / Business Management. Introduction to PERSAL and Excel will
be an added advantage. Two (2) years functional experience in Human
Resource Management (Employment Equity, Human Resource Policies,
PERSAL establishment) environment. Knowledge: Public Service Regulations
and relevant prescript, Batho Pele Principles, Employment Equity Act and
related legislation, HR policies and procedures, Data analysis and reporting
techniques, Meeting and event coordination practices, Policy development
process. Skills: Communication (both verbal and writing), Financial
Management, Decision making, Interpersonal, Interpretation of policies, Policy
research and development, Computer literacy, Facilitation, Minute-taking and
report writing, Document editing and policy drafting.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of the Employment Equity Plan. Consolidate
data collection, reporting, and EE Profiling. Provide support in policy
development and consultation processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Nene Tel No: (012) 309 4563
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X117,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ2@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE target priority will be given to African Males, Coloured Male, Indian Female,
people living with disabilities and Whites.
POST 20/19 : SENIOR COLLECTIVE BARGAINING OFFICER REF NO: HR4/26/06/04HO
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 in Labour Relations/ Human Resources
Management/ Law/Social Science/Public Management/Office Administration
and Technology. Two (2) years functional experience performing Labour
Relations/ Collective Bargaining services. Knowledge: Trade Unions,
employers’ organisation and particularly bargaining councils work,
Departmental policies and procedures, Public Services Regulation and
Financial Management, Labour Relations, Batho Pele Principles. Skills:
Computer, Leadership, Project Management, Verbal and written
communication, Conflict Management, Interpersonal Relations, Problem
solving, Analytical, Client orientation, Customer focus.
DUTIES : Analyse and process recommend of the registration of labour organisation
applications. Ensure compliance of labour organisation with legal
19
requirements. Analyse and process the extension of collective agreements to
non-parties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Mahlangu Tel No: (012) 309 4112
APPLICATIONS : The Chief Director: Human Resources Management, Private Bag X117,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ7@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE target priority will be given to African Male, Coloureds, Indians, people living
with disabilities and Whites.
POST 20/20 : OHS INSPECTOR REF NO: HR4/4/1/80
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Makhanda Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a 3-year recognized qualification (NQF6/7 SAQA
recognized) in Occupational Hygiene / Environmental Health / Analytical
Chemistry / Chemical Engineering / Electrical/Mechanical Engineering/. A valid
driver license. Registration with the relevant, recognized professional body is
an advantage but not compulsory. Knowledge: Departmental policies and
procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act, as amended, Regulations
(21), South African National Standards (Codes)- incorporated Codes become
regulations, Compensation for Occupational injuries and Diseases Act,
Unemployed Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and organizing, Communication
skills, Computer Literacy, Facilitation skills, Interpersonal skills, Conflict
handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving skills, Interviewing skills,
Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills, Verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Ntlokwana Tel No: (046) 622 2104
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box X 342 Makhanda, 6140,
Hand deliver at 20 High Street Makhanda, 6140. Email: Jobs-
ECGTN@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets- Priority will be given to African Males, Whites, Indians, Coloureds
and People with Disability.
POST 20/21 : SENIOR CLAIMS ASSESSOR: COMPENSATION FUND REF NO:
HR4/4/1/81
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Mthatha Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a 3-year recognized qualification (NQF6 SAQA
recognized) in Public Management / Business Management / Operations
Management / Management / Human Resources Management / Nursing / Law
/ LLB / BCom / Finance / Administration. A valid driver license. 2 years’
experience in Compensation or Medical Claims Processing Environment.
Knowledge: Claims Handlin, Brand and Customer Oriented Service Delivery,
Public Services Act and Regulations, COID Tariffs, Public Services Charter,
Approved COID Delegations, Promotion of Access to Information Act, Road
Accident Fund, Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS), Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa No. 108 of 1996, Relevant regulations, laws and
legislation. Skills: Accountability, Analytical Thinking, Attention to detail, Brand
and Customer Oriented Services Delivery, Business and Finance Acumen,
Communications, Emotional Intelligence, Ethics and Governance, Team
orientation.
20
DUTIES : Adjudicate registered and fatal claims per delegation’s requirements. Verify
and refer complex claims to medical services for further adjudication. Authorise
compensation benefits as per delegations. Handle complex inquiries and
advocacy sessions. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Zaula Tel No: (047) 501 5600
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations Manpower Building CNR Elliot and
Madeira Streets Umthatha. Email Jobs–ECUTT@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets- Priority will be given to African Males, Whites, Indians, Coloureds
and People with Disability.
POST 20/22 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER IES REF NO: HR4/4/1/120
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Lusikisiki
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and no experience needed Knowledge: All relevant Labour
Legislations and Regulations, Related ILO conventions, Public Service
Regulations, Public Service Act, Knowledge of the Departmental Policies,
Procedures and Guidelines, Batho Pele Principles Skills: Interpersonal,
Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Computer literacy, Communication, Ability to
interpret legislation, Problem solving.
DUTIES : Render services at helpdesk as the first point of entry within the Registration
Services. Resolve all complaints on IES labour legislations received from
Clients within the scope and dictates of the IES SOP. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ndiphe Mtwa Tel No: (039) 253 1996
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X1002 Lusikisiki, 4820,
Hand deliver at Stanford and Jacaranda Street, Lusikisiki, 4820. E-mail: Jobs-
ECLSS@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Male, White Males, White Females, Coloured
Males, Coloured Females, Indian Males, Indian Females and People with
Disabilities.
POST 20/23 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Makhanda Ref No: HR/4/4/1/71 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Nqanqarhu Labour Centre Ref No: HR/4/4/1/72 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ National Senior Certificate. No experience required. Valid driver’s
licence will be an added advantage. Knowledge: Departmental policies,
procedures and guidelines, Labour Legislation and Regulations, Employment
Services Act, Public Service Act and Regulations, Batho Pele principles. Skills:
Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Computer Literacy,
Communication (verbal and written), Listening, Problem solving, Ability to
interpret legislation.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work-seekers on ESSA. Render registration
services of work and learning opportunities on ESSA. Refer work seekers for
Employment Counselling services. Provide administrative support with the
placement of work seekers in work and learning opportunities. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Z Ntlokwana Tel No: (046) 622 2104 (Makhanda)
Ms. N Mvanyashe Tel No: (045) 932 1424 (Nqanqarhu)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box X342, Makhanda,
6140, Hand deliver at 20 High Street Makhanda, 6140. Email: Jobs-
ECGTN@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 397 Nqanqarhu, 5780,
Hand deliver at 1 Royal Road Nqanqarhu, 5480. Email: Jobs-
ECMCR@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets- Priority will be given to African Males, White Males, White
Females, Indian female, Indian Male, Coloured Male, Coloured Female and
People with Disability.
POST 20/24 : CLIENT SERVICES OFFICER: COMPENSATION FUND (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
21
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Mthatha Ref No: HR4/4/1/73 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Gqeberha Ref No: HR4/4/1/74 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Public Service Act.
Public Service Regulations. Compensation Fund business strategies and
goals. Compensation Fund value chain. Directorate goals and performance
requirements. PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Customer Services (Batho
Pele Principles). Skills: Computer Literacy, Business writing skills, Listening
skills, Telephone etiquette and Basic Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Receive and verify documents for registration. Register claims on the
Operational System. Assist employer services at the kiosk, online system and
service centre. Handle all services related queries complaints.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Zaula Tel No: (047) 501 5600 (Mthatha)
Mr S Mshumpela Tel No: (041) 506 5116 (Gqeberha)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Manpower Building, CNR Elliot
and Madeira Streets Mthatha. Email Jobs–ECUTT@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, Private Bag X6045, Gqeberha,
6000, Hand deliver at VSN Centre 116 – 134 Goven Mbeki Avenue
Gqeberha,6000. Email: Jobs-ECPLZ@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets- Priority will be given to African Males, White Males, White
Females, Indian female, Indian Male, Coloured Male, Coloured Female and
People with Disability.
POST 20/25 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE FUND REF
NO: HR/4/4/1/75
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre Makhanda
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA), Department of Labour and UIF Policies and
Procedures, Treasury Regulations, UIF’s Vision, Mission and Values,
Departmental Policies, Procedures and Guidelines, Batho Pele Principles.
Skills: Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Computer Literacy,
Communication (verbal and written), Listening, Interpretation (ability to
interpret UI Act and Contribution Act), Conflict Management, Time
Management, Customer Relations, Analytical and On job training (operational
systems).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF Benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Ntlokwana Tel No: (046) 622 2104
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box X 342, Makhanda, 6140,
Hand deliver at 20 High Street Makhanda, 6140. Email: Jobs-
ECGTN@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets- Priority will be given to African Males, White Males, White
Females, Indian female, Indian Male, Coloured Male, Coloured Female and
People with Disability.
POST 20/26 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Makhanda Ref No: HR/4/4/1/76 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Nqanqarhu Ref No: HR/4/4/1/77 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge: Batho Pele
Principles, Departmental policies and procedures, Treasury Regulations.
Skills: Verbal and written communication, Interpersonal relations, Problem
solving, Communication, Conflict Management, Coordination, Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : To render Supply Chain Management function in a Labour Centre daily. Provide
a Finance and Office Management service to Labour Centre. Render Human
Resource Management. Responsible for training and performance activities in
a Labour Centre. Responsible for records administration in a Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Mvanyashe Tel No: (045) 9321424 (Nqanqarhu)
Ms. Z Ntlokwana Tel No: (046) 622 2104 (Makhanda)
22
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box X 342 Makhanda,
6140, Hand deliver at 20 High Street Makhanda, 6140. Email: Jobs-
ECGTN@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 397 Nqanqarhu, 5780,
Hand deliver at 1 Royal Road Nqanqarhu 5480. Email: Jobs-
ECMCR@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets- Priority will be given to Whites, Indians, Coloureds, African Males
and People with Disability.
23
ANNEXURE F
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE (GTAC)
APPLICATIONS : Please register, or if you are already registered, sign in and apply for this
position on the GTAC eRecruitment website:
https://erecruitment.gtac.gov.za/erecruitment/
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026 at 12 pm
NOTE : Only South African Citizens, and Permanent Residents need to apply as per
PSR 2016. Applications should be accompanied by a duly completed and
signed Z83 form (obtainable from any Public Service department). The post
title and reference number must be clearly indicated on the Z83 form. A recent
comprehensive CV should be submitted. Certified copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents will be required to be submitted to HR on or before
the day of the interview from shortlisted candidates. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to security
vetting to confirm employment, personnel suitability checks and undergo an
SMS competency assessment prior to the interview. They must make
themselves available for a panel interview on the date determined by GTAC.
Late applications, and those not meeting the requirements, will not be
considered. Should you not receive feedback from GTAC within 2 months of
the closing date, please consider your application unsuccessful. GTAC
reserves the right to fill or not fill the advertised post. Preference will be given
according to EE and Gender target. In accordance with the DPSA Directive on
Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training Days and Minimum
requirements, this SMS level appointment will be subject to the completion of
the Senior Management Pre-entry programme as endorsed by the National
School of Government. The applicants should therefore have proof that they
have registered for the Pre-entry certificate and have completed the course
before the appointment. The cost of the pre-entry certificate is at the
candidate’s expense. To access the pre-certificate course, please visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme.Applications: Only online applications will be accepted.
Applications not accompanied by a comprehensive CV and a fully completed
Z83 form will not be considered. The GTAC is an equal-opportunity employer
and encourages applications from women and people with disabilities. Our
buildings are accessible to people with disabilities and reasonable
accommodation is provided for persons with disabilities.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/27 : DIRECTOR: CAPITAL PROJECTS APPRAISAL REF NO: G08/2026
Term: Permanent
The purpose of this job is to lead a team of analysts to evaluate the pipeline of
infrastructure projects prior to investment decisions being taken, analyse and
advise on the implications of committing fiscal support to large infrastructure
projects, and undertake infrastructure research and analysis.
SALARY : R1 317 384 - R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13), (all – inclusive package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced Diploma/ BTech degree (NQF 7) as recognised
by SAQA in Development Finance or Economics. Postgraduate degree (NQF
level 8) qualification will be advantageous. A minimum of 7 years’ experience
in capital project and/or economic analyses. Must have sound understanding
of analysis of capital projects and implications of investing. Must have superior
research, analysis and report writing skills, with the ability to interpret economic
policy outcomes as well as experience with performance and/or project
management. 5 years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level.
Competencies Required: Change Leadership: The ability to deliver the
message of change in both words and actions and motivate people to change.
It energises and alerts groups to the need for specific changes in the way things
are done. It involves taking responsibility to champion the change effort through
building and maintaining support and commitment. Concern for Quality and
Order: Desire to see things done logically, clearly and well. It takes various
24
forms: monitoring and checking work and information, insisting on the clarity of
roles and duties, setting up and maintaining an information system. Effective
Communication: Ability to transmit and receive information clearly and
communicate effectively to others by considering their points of view in order
to respond appropriately. This may involve listening, interpreting, formulating
and delivering verbal, non-verbal, written, and/or electronic messages. It
includes the ability to convey ideas and information in a way that brings
understanding to the target audience. Integrity/ Honesty: Contributes to
maintaining the integrity of the organisation; displays high standards of ethical
conduct and understands the impact of violating these standards on an
organisation, self, and others; is trustworthy. Organisational Awareness: The
ability to understand and learn the power of relationships in one’s own
organisation or in other organisations. This includes the ability to identify the
real decision makers, the individuals who can influence them, and to predict
how new events or situations will affect individuals and groups within the
Department. Problem Solving and Analysis: Understanding a situation, issue,
problem, etc., by breaking it into smaller pieces, or tracing the implications of a
situation in a step-by-step way. It includes organising the parts of a problem,
situation, etc., in a systematic way; making systematic comparisons of different
features or aspects; setting priorities on a rational basis; and identifying time
sequences, causal relationships, or if-then relationships. Create timely and
well-developed solutions by examining alternatives, risks and consequences.
Resilience: Ability to cap one’s emotions to avoid negative reactions when
provoked, when faced with opposition or hostility, or when working under
stress. It also includes the ability to maintain stamina under continuing stress.
Resources Planning: Organises work, sets priorities and determines resource
requirements; determines short- or long-term goals and strategies to achieve
them; coordinates with other organisations or parts of the organisation to
accomplish goals; monitors progress and evaluates outcomes. Results
Orientation: Concern for holding yourself and others accountable for achieving
results or for surpassing a standard of excellence. It includes the process of
setting measurable objectives, implementing change and then checking back
to determine the effect of your efforts. The standard may be one’s own past
performance (striving for improvement); an objective measure (results
orientation); outperforming others (competitiveness); challenging goals one
has set, or even what anyone has ever done (innovation). General
Management: Process of planning, directing, organising and controlling people
and resources within a unit or a subunit in order to achieve organisational
goals. Capital Projects Analysis Principles: Basic knowledge and
understanding of capital project analysis including cost-benefit, financial and
economic analysis. Economics and/or Finance: Science that studies the
allocation of resources to satisfy unlimited wants for capital. Policy
Development and Management: Knowledge of Treasury-related legislation, the
legislative process and public affairs as it pertains to NT. Includes the ability to
monitor legislation that is of interest to Treasury. Utilises a wide variety of
resources and tools to develop, maintain, monitor, enforce and provide
oversight of policies and regulations. Project Management: Knowledge of the
principles, methods, or tools for developing, scheduling, coordinating, and
managing projects and resources, including monitoring and inspecting costs,
work, and contractor performance. Computer Literacy: Knowledge and ability
to use computers and technology efficiently. Refers to the comfort level
someone has with using computer programs and other applications associated
with computers (MSOffice, Internet, email). Holding People Accountable: Acts
to ensure others perform in accordance with clear expectations and goals.
Team Participation: Works co-operatively with others, working together as
opposed to working separately or competitively.
DUTIES : Appraisal analysis and advise: Lead the production of infrastructure appraisal
review reports advising on the feasibility, viability and sustainability of
investments. Develop quantitative models to assess the expected impacts of
specific infrastructure projects on the fiscus, welfare, economy and the
environment. Advise on project configuration, costing, funding and financing,
procurement and implementation readiness. Conduct post investment
monitoring, evaluation and analysis. Develop a database of various
microeconomic and macroeconomic indicators to assist in the estimation
and/or benchmarking of costs, benefits, and other impacts of capital projects,
proposed and ex post. Appraisal tools and methodologies: Develop appraisal
tools and methodologies for assessment of infrastructure project impacts.
25
Collaborate with the National Treasury to develop appraisal guidelines in line
with best practice. Contribute to the design and participate in the rollout of
capacity building initiatives and knowledge sharing platforms. Analysis and
research: Initiate research and analysis of factors that will impact on investment
in capital projects. Analysis on how to prioritise the most desirable projects and
optimise the roll-out of national infrastructure to help maximise the economic
benefits to society. Input into policy discussions and advice on future policy
developments and their impact on infrastructure. Provide progress reports on
developments related to national infrastructure delivery and its impact on
debottlenecking the economy. Conduct research on specific technologies that
affect how infrastructure is developed. Conduct research on sector
developments, trends and topical issues related to infrastructure. Project
Management: Oversee team of analysts undertaking capital project analysis;
provide guidance on technical work and ensure analysis is delivered on time
and according to accepted appraisal methodologies. Liaise with internal and
external stakeholders and government departments, on projects with regard to
appraisal progress, queries and findings. Manage project plan, project
resources and project analysis outcomes/ objectives. Represent the unit on
project steering committees and provide inputs on transfer of appraisal and
projects.
ENQUIRIES : HR enquiries: Kaizer.Malakoane@gtac.gov.za at 066 250 7072
26
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intension to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General, National Department of Health, Private Bag X399,
Pretoria. 0001. Hand delivered application may be submitted at Reception
(Brown Application Box), Dr AB Xuma Building, 1112 Voortrekker Rd, Pretoria
Townlands 351-JR or should be forwarded to vacancies@Health.gov.za
quoting the reference number on the subject e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Shitiba
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the interview and
technical exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment batteries. Applications should be submitted on the new Z83 form
obtainable from any Public Service department and should be accompanied by
a CV only (previous experience must be comprehensively detailed). The Z83
must be fully completed (in line with DPSA Practice note), failure to comply will
automatically disqualify the applicant. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualification and other relevant documents on application. Certified
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will be requested prior to
the final selection phase. Applications should be on one PDF format (If
emailed). Applications received after the closing date and those that do not
comply with the requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications and national certificates (where
applicable) evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection,
processing, and storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used
solely for the purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties
without prior consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the
right not to fill the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to
personnel suitability checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are
respectfully informed that correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If notification of an interview is not received within three (3)
months after the closing date, candidates may regard their application as
unsuccessful. The Department will not be liable where applicants use
incorrect/no reference number(s) on their applications. Media: PSVC and
NDOH Website.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/28 : DIRECTOR: NUTRITION REF NO: NDOH 43/2026
Chief Directorate: Health Promotion, Nutrition and Oral Health
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package of [basic salary
consist of 70% of total package, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion]. The
flexible portion of the package can be structured according to the Senior
Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 and Bachelor’s Degree/An NQF 7 qualification in Dietetics or
Nutrition. A postgraduate qualification in Nutrition/Dietetics, as well as
registration with the HPCSA as a Nutritionist or Dietician, will be considered an
advantage. At least five (5) years of experience at middle/senior managerial
level in nutrition and/or public health field. Experience in policy development
process, planning, monitoring and evaluation. Knowledge of National Health
Act, Foodstuffs, Cosmetics and Disinfectants Act, Health Professions Act,
27
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Human resources and Procurement policies.
Knowledge of the science of nutrition, social, economic, environmental and
commercial determinants of health and its impact on nutrition and health
outcomes; current evidence-based nutrition strategies for improving nutrition
outcomes; relevant national regulations and policies within the department of
health that impact on nutrition outcomes. Knowledge of relevant national
policies, regulations, strategies and programmes outside the department of
health related to food and nutrition. Good communication (verbal and written),
strategic capability and leadership, people management and empowerment,
programme and project management, financial management, change
management, knowledge management, service delivery innovation, problem
solving and analysis, client orientation and customer focus skills. A valid
driver’s license. SMS pre-entry Certificate is required for appointment
finalisation.
DUTIES : Manage the development and review of food and nutrition-related regulations,
policies, strategies and guidelines. Conduct literature search to get latest
evidence and organise and analyse available data. Overall planning,
organising and co-ordination of implementation, monitoring and evaluation of
food and nutrition interventions and programmes. Provide leadership,
direction, guidance, technical support and appropriate tools and material to
provinces on the implementation of the nutrition interventions and
programmes. Collaborate with internal and external stakeholders on food and
nutrition related actions. Engage development partners to support
implementation of priority nutrition interventions. Coordinate implementation of
programmes initiated and supported by development partners to reduce
duplication. Manage the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of
nutrition- related regulations, policies, strategies and guidelines to ensure
effective programme delivery. Develop monitoring and evaluation framework
and tools. Manage human, financial and asset resources efficiently in
compliance with the PFMA, treasury regulations and departmental prescripts.
Manage and supervise human resources within the directorate, including
performance management and development, leave management and staff
wellness.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PR Ntsie at 082 491 8243
28
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) seeks to appoint professional, passionate and skilled individuals
to form part of a leadership team driving the transformation of Home Affairs into a digital-first, world-
class organisation. Candidates committed to service excellence, digital transformation, innovation,
integrity and the Department’s shared values, and whose credentials meet the requirements of these
posts, are invited to apply before the closing date. The DHA is a merit-based and equal opportunity
employer. In line with its commitment to promoting opportunities, in the filling of these posts, women
and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
CLOSING DATE : 13 July 2026
NOTE : applications Must be submitted on or before the closing date; accompanied by
a fully completed and signed Application for Employment Form (New Z83,
effective from 1 January 2021, obtainable at www.dpsa.gov.za), citing the
correct post number and job title; a comprehensive CV (citing the start and end
date (dd/mm/yy), job title, detailed duties performed and exit reason for each
employment period to be considered, as well as the details of at least two
contactable employment references (as recent as possible)); as well as
relevant educational qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic Transcripts of
completed qualifications, regardless of online, email or manual submission.
Applicants who possess (a) foreign qualification(s), are furthermore required to
submit the evaluated results of such qualifications as received from the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Pre-Screening: During pre-screening,
candidates may be directed to submit additional supporting documentation
such as a copy of their ID document, a valid driver’s license (if specified as a
job requirement), acting letters, amongst others. Selection: Shortlisted
candidates - will be subject to various assessments, such as an interview(s)
and technical test(s) (which assess the candidate’s professional and technical
competency against the job requirements and duties, general job fit, integrity
and digital literacy); potentially considered suitable after the interview(s) and
test(s), will be subjected to further mandatory assessments (which, amongst
others, assesses the candidate’s proficiency in the core, professional and
behavioural competencies attached to the level of the post within the Senior
Management Service), employment suitability checks (credit, criminal,
citizenship, qualifications, social media background, conducting business with
State; and employment references including verification of relevant
employment tenures, pending disciplinary action and exit reasons); will be
required to submit a Declaration of Business Interests and successfully
complete the online Nyukela Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management
Services course, which can be accessed via:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Candidates wishing to be considered for appointment, are encouraged to enrol
for this course immediately. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and
the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels
shall score both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview
process. Appointment: Once appointed, the completion of an employment
contract, performance agreement, financial disclosure; and the undergoing of
a compulsory induction programme, serving a prescribed probation period, and
undergoing security vetting will be required. Unless otherwise indicated,
correspondence between the Department and candidates generally will be
limited to shortlisted candidates. The DHA complies with the Protection of
Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4 of 2013). Personal information
submitted will be processed solely for recruitment purposes, retained where
required for audit, and safeguarded against unauthorised disclosure, except
where legally required. Submission of an application constitutes consent to
such processing.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the post of Local Office Manager, North West:
Large Office: Klerksdorp with Ref No: HRMC 30/26/1b, that was advertised in
Public Service Vacancy Circular 19 dated 05 June 2026, is amended to Local
Office Manager, North West: Large Office: Mmabatho. To this effect, the closing
date for this post has been extended to 03 July 2026. We apologise for the
inconvenience caused.
29
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/29 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: IMMIGRATION SERVICES REF NO:
HRMC 34/26/1
Branch: Immigration Services
SALARY : R1 885 710 - R2 124 237 per annum (Level 15), an all-inclusive salary
package, structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Headquarters: Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Law, Business Management, Public Management, Public
Administration, Operations Management, Public Policy or in a relevant field at
NQF level 8 as recognized by SAQA. 8 Years’ experience at a Senior
Management Service level within a highly pressured, complex and litigious
operational environment, preferably within immigration services, migration
management, law enforcement, regulatory administration, or a related field.
Proven track record of operating successfully at a strategic / executive
leadership level within a large organization of comparable size and complexity
as well as public sector experience will serve as an added advantage.
Extensive knowledge and understanding of the Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa, Public Service legislative and regulatory frameworks,
Government structures, and the legislative and operational frameworks
governing immigration management and the enforcement of the Immigration
Act. Sound knowledge and understanding of migration governance
frameworks, including economic development considerations, international
relations, international migration law, international conventions on migration,
and applicable continental and regional migration protocols. Sound knowledge
and understanding of government planning and governance frameworks,
including the Medium-Term Development Plan (MTDP), Government Planning
Frameworks, and the principles of good corporate governance (King IV). A
Valid driver’s licence or ability to fulfil the operational travel requirements of the
post independently, through maintaining reliable transport arrangements for the
execution of official duties, as well as willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Successful completion of the Nyukela Pre-entry Certificate to Senior
Management Services. Skills and competencies: Strong strategic, digital and
transformational leadership capability, including the ability to drive innovation,
leverage emerging technologies, lead large-scale organisational
transformation and modernisation initiatives, and oversee the modernisation of
Immigration processes and systems, digital governance controls and
technology-enabled oversight mechanisms within a digital-first environment.
Advanced operational and regulatory management capability, including service
delivery innovation, programme and project management, operational
planning, governance oversight, risk management, regulatory compliance, and
the ability to deliver results in a highly complex and demanding environment.
Sound strategic, analytical and problem-solving capability, including data-
driven decision-making, policy development, knowledge and information
management, operational performance analysis, and the ability to strengthen
organisational effectiveness, service delivery outcomes and regulatory
compliance. Sound financial and resource management capability, including
budgeting, financial management, financial reporting, resource optimisation
and accountability for organisational performance within a complex operational
environment. Excellent stakeholder management and interpersonal skills,
including client orientation and customer focus, communication, presentation,
business report writing, influencing, networking, negotiation and conflict
management, with the ability to build and maintain effective relationships with
government institutions, international partners and other strategic
stakeholders. Strong people leadership capability, including team leadership,
employee empowerment, change management, coaching and the ability to
foster a high-performance, ethical and service-oriented organisational culture.
High levels of professionalism, sound judgement, honesty, integrity, attention
to detail, and a commitment to ethical governance and public service
excellence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
key functions: Provide strategic and executive leadership to the Branch:
30
Immigration Services, including the effective management of human, financial
and physical resources, as well as governance, risk and compliance
processes. Provide strategic leadership and guidance on immigration
management matters, including the implementation of immigration legislation,
operational modernisation, regulatory compliance and service delivery
improvement initiatives. Lead the implementation of strategic objectives and
innovation initiatives within the Branch, including legislative reforms, digital
transformation, process optimisation and organisational culture transformation
to enhance operational efficiency and client service delivery. Drive the Branch’s
Digital Transformation Programme through the implementation of secure,
modern and future-ready immigration systems and platforms, including the
Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA), integrated biometric solutions and digital
immigration registration platforms that promote digital inclusion and equitable
access to services. Provide strategic leadership on permitting services and the
administration of immigration functions in accordance with the Immigration Act,
2002 (Act No. 13 of 2002), including asylum seeker management and related
immigration services. Provide strategic direction on immigration port control
policy, immigration operations and regulatory enforcement capabilities. Lead
inspectorate and immigration enforcement services, including the identification
and implementation of measures to detect, prevent and address illegal
immigration and ensure compliance with immigration legislation. Facilitate
strategic stakeholder engagement and partnerships with government
institutions, law enforcement agencies, international organisations and other
key stakeholders, including representing the Department at national, regional
and international forums. Oversee the development, review and
implementation of immigration policies, frameworks, systems and codes of
practice aligned to legislative prescripts, governance standards and
organisational priorities. Ensure the effective delivery of immigration services
in accordance with applicable service standards and organisational
commitments, including the achievement of Branch performance targets,
strengthening governance and internal control systems, and supporting clean
audit outcomes. Lead the institutionalisation of digital innovation, ethical
governance, organisational values and people-centred service delivery
practices across the Branch.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Proby Reddy at (060) 976 7508) or Ms Sandra Mkhaliphi at (072) 527 6033
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za, or via email to
imsrecruitment@dha.gov.za (limited to 2.5MB in size. Should an automated
acknowledgement of receipt not be received when an application is emailed,
this could mean that the application was not received due to the size of the
attachments. Should this occur, kindly resend the application in 2 / 3 parts,
splitting the attachments accordingly), or delivered for the attention of the
enquires person cited for this post, to the Department of Home Affairs, Head
Office, 5th Floor Hallmark Building, 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street,
Pretoria Central.
POST 20/30 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO: HRMC 34/26/2
Branch: Human Resources Management and Development.
SALARY : R1 885 710 - R2 124 237 per annum (Level 15), an all-inclusive salary
package, structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Headquarters: Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Human Resource Management, Public Administration,
Management, Industrial Psychology, Management Sciences, Social Sciences
or in a related field at NQF level 8 as recognised by SAQA. 8 years’ experience
at a Senior Management level. Extensive experience in strategic human
resource management and organisational development, including the
development and implementation of fit-for-purpose people strategies,
workforce planning, talent management, organisational design and culture
transformation, leadership development, and modernisation initiatives aligned
to organisational priorities Proven track record of operating successfully at a
strategic / executive leadership level within a large organization of comparable
size and complexity as well as public sector experience will serve as an added
31
advantage. Extensive knowledge and understanding of the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa, Public Service legislative and regulatory frameworks,
Government structures, labour relations frameworks, and policy frameworks
applicable to human resources management and development. Sound
knowledge and understanding of government planning and governance
frameworks, including the Medium-Term Development Plan (MTDP),
Government Planning Frameworks and principles of good corporate
governance (King IV). A Valid driver’s licence or ability to fulfil the operational
travel requirements of the post independently, through maintaining reliable
transport arrangements for the execution of official duties, as well as
willingness to travel and work extended hours. Successful completion of the
Nyukela Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services. Skills and
competencies: Strong strategic, digital and transformational leadership
capability, including the ability to drive innovation, leverage emerging
technologies, lead organisational modernisation initiatives, and oversee the
transformation of HRM&D systems, business processes, digital governance
controls and technology-enabled service delivery within a digital-first
environment. Advanced human capital management and organisational
development capability, including workforce planning and transformation,
talent, performance and succession management, organisational design and
development, change management, organisational culture development,
leadership development, coaching and employee empowerment. Strong
governance, programme and operational management capability, including
policy development, programme and project management, financial and risk
management, governance oversight, commercial acumen, planning and
organising, accountability, and the ability to deliver results in a complex and
demanding environment. Sound strategic, analytical and problem-solving
capability, including data-driven decision-making, workforce analytics,
organisational diagnostics, knowledge and information management, and the
ability to optimise organisational performance, productivity and service
delivery. Excellent stakeholder management and interpersonal skills, including
client orientation and customer focus, communication, presentation, business
report writing, influencing, networking, negotiation and conflict management,
with the ability to build and sustain strategic partnerships. Strong people
leadership capability, including team leadership, talent development and the
ability to foster a high-performance, ethical and values-driven culture that
supports organisational objectives, workforce transformation and the adoption
of new ways of working. High levels of professionalism, ethical conduct,
honesty, integrity, sound judgement, attention to detail and a commitment to
public service excellence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
key functions: Provide strategic and executive leadership to the Branch:
Human Resources Management and Development, including the effective
management of human, financial and physical resources, as well as
governance, risk and compliance processes. Lead the development, review
and implementation of the Department’s human resources strategy, workforce
planning frameworks and organisational development initiatives in support of
the Department’s strategic objectives and service delivery mandate. Provide
strategic leadership on human capital management functions, including talent
management, recruitment and selection, employment relations, conditions of
service, employee wellness, learning and development, collective bargaining
and labour relations. Drive organisational transformation, culture change and
modernisation initiatives to support the Department’s transition into a digital-
first organisation, including the implementation of appropriate change
management, capability-building and digital enablement programmes. Lead
the innovation, optimisation, digitisation and automation of human resource
management services, systems and business processes to enhance
operational efficiency, governance, accountability and service delivery
outcomes. Ensure the effective delivery of human resource management
services in accordance with applicable service standards and organisational
commitments, including the achievement of Branch performance targets,
continuous improvement of service delivery outcomes, and the maintenance
of sound governance and internal control systems to support clean audit
outcomes. Facilitate strategic stakeholder engagement and partnerships with
internal business units, organised labour, government institutions and external
stakeholders in support of the Department’s strategic and operational
objectives. Oversee the development, review and implementation of best-
32
practice human resources policies, frameworks, systems and codes of practice
aligned to legislative prescripts, governance standards and organisational
priorities. Lead the institutionalisation of the Department’s organisational
values, ethical standards, compliance culture and people-centred service
delivery ethos across the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Proby Reddy at (060) 976 7508) or Ms Sandra Mkhaliphi at (072) 527 6033
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za, or via email to
HRrecruitment@dha.gov.za (limited to 2.5MB in size. Should an automated
acknowledgement of receipt not be received when an application is emailed,
this could mean that the application was not received due to the size of the
attachments. Should this occur, kindly resend the application in 2 / 3 parts,
splitting the attachments accordingly), or delivered for the attention of the
enquires person cited for this post, to the Department of Home Affairs, Head
Office, 5th Floor Hallmark Building, 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street,
Pretoria Central.
POST 20/31 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: INFORMATION SERVICES REF NO:
HRMC 34/26/3
Branch: Information Services
SALARY : R1 885 710 - R2 124 237 per annum (Level 15), an all-inclusive salary
package, structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Headquarters: Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Information Technology, Computer Science, Computer
Engineering, Information and Communication Technology, Information
Systems or a relevant field at NQF level 8 as recognised by SAQA. 8 years’
experience at a Senior Management level in an Information Communication
Technology (ICT) environment. Proven experience in delivering complex ICT
solutions, leading digital transformation initiatives, implementing AI-enabled
technologies, managing business intelligence capabilities, and overseeing
large-scale ICT programmes and projects in a highly demanding operational
environment. Proven track record of operating successfully at a strategic /
executive leadership level within a large organization of comparable size and
complexity as well as public sector experience will serve as an added
advantage. Extensive knowledge and understanding of digital transformation
and public sector ICT environments, including the Department’s Digital
Transformation Strategy and Implementation Framework, government service
delivery models and digital economy frameworks. Advanced knowledge of ICT
governance frameworks, legislation and regulatory prescripts, including
CGICT, COBIT, ITIL, the PFMA, POPIA, the SITA Act, as well as governance,
risk management and audit processes. Advanced knowledge and experience
in enterprise architecture, cloud computing, systems integration platforms,
cybersecurity frameworks and standards, digital identity and Public Key
Infrastructure (PKI) ecosystems, data governance, analytics and AI
technologies. Sound knowledge and understanding of government planning
and governance frameworks, including the Medium-Term Development Plan
(MTDP), Government Planning Frameworks and principles of good corporate
governance (King IV). A Valid driver’s licence or ability to fulfil the operational
travel requirements of the post independently, through maintaining reliable
transport arrangements for the execution of official duties, as well as
willingness to travel and work extended hours. Successful completion of the
Nyukela Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services. Skills and
competencies: Strong digital leadership capability, including the ability to drive
innovation, leverage emerging technologies, and lead large-scale business
process and organisational transformation within a digital-first environment,
including the modernisation of ICT processes and systems, digital governance
controls, and technology-enabled oversight mechanisms. Advanced ICT
capability, including enterprise architecture, platform-based operating models,
cybersecurity, ICT governance, compliance management, business continuity,
knowledge and information management, digital service delivery, advanced
computer literacy, and AI-enabled technologies. Strategic leadership and
execution capability, including sound decision-making, accountability,
commercial acumen, and the ability to lead complex digital transformation
33
programmes and ICT-enabled organisational change initiatives. Strong
programme, project and operational management capability, including digital
programme and project delivery, business process analysis and optimisation,
planning and organising, financial management, performance management,
and the ability to operate effectively under pressure while meeting
organisational objectives and deadlines. Excellent stakeholder management
and interpersonal skills, including client orientation and customer focus,
communication, presentation, facilitation, business report writing, influencing,
networking, negotiation, and conflict management, with the ability to build and
sustain strategic partnerships. Strong people management and change
leadership capability, including team leadership, coaching, empowerment,
talent development, and the ability to drive organisational culture
transformation and workforce adoption of digital solutions. High levels of
professionalism, ethical conduct, honesty and integrity, attention to detail,
sound judgement and a commitment to public service excellence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
key functions: Provide strategic and executive leadership to the Branch:
Information Services, including the effective management of human, financial
and physical resources, as well as governance, audit, risk and compliance
processes. Drive the Department’s Digital Transformation Strategy through the
modernisation of legacy ICT environments and the implementation of
integrated, secure and citizen-centric digital platforms and online service
delivery models. Lead strategic digital programmes and innovations, including
the Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA), Digital Identity and Public Key
Infrastructure (PKI), Smart ID and ePassport modernisation, automation
initiatives, AI-enabled capabilities, and the expansion of services into digital
channels. Provide strategic leadership and expert guidance on Information and
Communication Technology (ICT), including ICT strategy, Enterprise
Architecture, digital innovation, ICT operations, infrastructure, systems
availability, cybersecurity, digital trust and risk management. Lead the
establishment and implementation of the Department’s Digital Transformation
Portfolio and institutionalise innovative, paperless and technology-enabled
service delivery capabilities across the Department. Facilitate strategic
stakeholder engagement, ecosystem integration and intergovernmental
collaboration, including representing the Department at various forums and
maintaining partnerships with key stakeholders. Ensure the effective delivery
of ICT services in accordance with applicable service standards and
organisational commitments, including the achievement of Branch
performance targets, continuous improvement of service delivery outcomes,
and the maintenance of sound governance and internal control systems to
support clean audit outcomes. Oversee the development, review and
implementation of ICT policies, frameworks, standards, codes of practice and
regulatory compliance measures aligned to best practice and government
priorities. Ensure the institutionalisation of accountability, ethical governance
and organisational values across the Branch.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Proby Reddy at (060) 976 7508) or Ms Sandra Mkhaliphi at (072) 527 6033
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za, or via email to
ISrecruitment@dha.gov.za (limited to 2.5MB in size. Should an automated
acknowledgement of receipt not be received when an application is emailed,
this could mean that the application was not received due to the size of the
attachments. Should this occur, kindly resend the application in 2 / 3 parts,
splitting the attachments accordingly), or delivered for the attention of the
enquires person cited for this post, to the Department of Home Affairs, Head
Office, 5th Floor Hallmark Building, 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street,
Pretoria Central.
POST 20/32 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: COUNTER CORRUPTION AND
SECURITY SERVICES REF NO: HRMC 34/26/4
Branch: Counter Corruption and Security Services
SALARY : R1 885 710 - R2 124 237 per annum (Level 15), an all-inclusive salary
package, structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Headquarters: Head Office, Pretoria
34
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Law / Security Management / Forensic Investigation /
Management / Business Management / Public Administration / Public
Management or in a related field at NQF level 8 as recognised by SAQA. 8
years’ experience at a Senior Management level. Extensive experience in an
anti-corruption or security services environment. Proven track record of
operating successfully at a strategic / executive leadership level within a large
organization of comparable size and complexity as well as public sector
experience will serve as an added advantage. Extensive knowledge and
understanding of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Public
Service legislative and regulatory frameworks, government policies, protocols
and governance prescripts applicable to security management, intelligence
coordination, anti-corruption and related functions. Excellent knowledge of
legislation, policies and frameworks governing security, investigations,
intelligence and anti-corruption operations, including Intelligence Services
legislation, the Criminal Procedure Act, the South African Police Service Act,
anti-corruption legislation, and the National Intelligence Framework. Sound
knowledge and understanding of governance, fraud prevention, risk
management, information security and cybersecurity frameworks, including the
Public Service Anti-Corruption Strategy, Fraud Risk Management Framework,
Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS), Cybercrimes legislation, the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), State Information Technology
governance frameworks, and Digital Government and Digital Identity
frameworks. Sound knowledge and understanding of policy development,
strategic planning, operational governance, and the alignment of security,
intelligence and anti-corruption functions with organisational and sector-
specific business requirements. Sound knowledge and understanding of
government planning and governance frameworks, including the Medium-Term
Development Plan (MTDP), Government Planning Frameworks, and the
principles of good corporate governance (King IV). A Valid driver’s licence or
ability to fulfil the operational travel requirements of the post independently,
through maintaining reliable transport arrangements for the execution of official
duties, as well as willingness to travel and work extended hours. Successful
completion of the Nyukela Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management
Services. Skills and competencies: Strong digital leadership capabilities,
including the ability to drive innovation, embrace emerging technologies and
lead business process transformation within a digital-first environment;
including the modernisation of anti-corruption and security processes and
systems, digital governance controls and technology-enabled oversight
mechanisms. Strategic leadership and execution capabilities, including
decision-making, accountability and the ability to lead security, counter-
corruption, governance and organisational transformation initiatives within a
highly regulated environment. Advanced security, investigative and
governance capabilities, including counter-corruption, fraud risk management,
intelligence coordination, investigations oversight, information and physical
security management, vetting, compliance and risk management. Strong
strategic, analytical and operational management capabilities, including policy
development, programme and project management, financial management,
governance oversight, planning and organising, problem-solving and the ability
to work effectively under pressure and meet organisational targets. Capability
to drive digital transformation and modernisation within the security and
counter-corruption environment through secure digital systems, information
security frameworks and technology-enabled oversight mechanisms. Excellent
stakeholder management and interpersonal capabilities, including influencing,
networking, negotiation, conflict resolution, communication and engagement
with law enforcement agencies, intelligence structures and strategic
stakeholders. Strong people management and change leadership capability,
including team leadership, coaching, empowerment, talent development, and
the ability to drive organisational culture transformation and workforce adoption
of digital solutions. High levels of professionalism, ethical conduct, honesty and
integrity, attention to detail, sound judgement and a commitment to public
service excellence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
key functions: Provide strategic and executive leadership to the Branch:
Counter Corruption and Security Services, including the effective management
of human, financial and physical resources, as well as governance, risk and
compliance processes. Lead the Department’s counter-corruption and security
modernisation initiatives through the implementation of digital transformation
35
programmes, secure systems and technology-enabled oversight mechanisms
aligned to departmental priorities and digital transformation objectives. Provide
strategic leadership on physical and information security management,
including the protection of personnel, assets, information, facilities and critical
infrastructure, as well as compliance with the Minimum Information Security
Standards (MISS) and related security prescripts. Oversee the investigation
and analysis of fraud, corruption, criminal conduct, employee misconduct and
other security-related matters, including collaboration with law enforcement
and prosecutorial authorities to support successful case resolution and
prosecution. Provide strategic leadership on personnel security and vetting
services, including security screening, vetting compliance, security clearance
processes and stakeholder coordination with relevant security agencies. Lead
the development and implementation of counter-corruption prevention,
intelligence gathering, fraud risk management and ethics management
initiatives, including conducting lifestyle audits, strengthening whistleblower
protection mechanisms, chairing the Departmental Ethics Committee, and
driving the implementation of the Public Service integrity and ethics
management frameworks across the Department. Oversee the development,
review and implementation of policies, directives, governance frameworks and
codes of practice to ensure regulatory compliance, effective risk management,
audit readiness and alignment with departmental and national prescripts.
Facilitate strategic stakeholder engagement and partnerships with law
enforcement agencies, intelligence structures and key stakeholders in support
of the Department’s mandate and operational objectives. Ensure the
achievement of Branch performance targets, operational efficiency, effective
service delivery and the institutionalisation of accountability, ethical
governance and organisational values across the Branch.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Proby Reddy at (060) 976 7508 or Ms Sandra Mkhaliphi at (072) 527 6033
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za, or via email to
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za (limited to 2.5MB in size. Should an automated
acknowledgement of receipt not be received when an application is emailed,
this could mean that the application was not received due to the size of the
attachments. Should this occur, kindly resend the application in 2 / 3 parts,
splitting the attachments accordingly), or delivered for the attention of the
enquires person cited for this post, to the Department of Home Affairs, Head
Office, 5th Floor Hallmark Building, 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street,
Pretoria Central.
POST 20/33 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: HRMC 34/26/5
Branch: Finance and Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R1 885 710 - R2 124 237 per annum (Level 15), an all-inclusive salary
package, structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Headquarters: Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Accounting, Financial Accounting, Financial Management or
in a related field at NQF level 8 as recognised by SAQA. 8 years’ experience
at a Senior Management level. Extensive experience in a Financial
Management environment leading complex financial management functions,
including Financial Governance, Audit- and Risk Management practices.
Proven track record of operating successfully at a strategic / executive
leadership level within a large organization of comparable size and complexity
as well as public sector experience will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge of the Constitution of South Africa. Knowledge of Public Service
Regulatory Framework. Advanced knowledge and understanding of the Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations, Modified Cash
Standards, Auditing Standards and practices, the PPPF Act, and accounting
systems, e.g. BAS, PERSAL and LOGIS. Sound knowledge and understanding
of government planning and governance frameworks, including the Medium-
Term Development Plan (MTDP), Government Planning Frameworks, and the
principles of good corporate governance (King IV). Understanding of all
relevant human resources Legislative Framework, Regulations and prescripts.
A Valid driver’s licence or ability to fulfil the operational travel requirements of
the post independently, through maintaining reliable transport arrangements
36
for the execution of official duties, as well as willingness to travel and work
extended hours. Successful completion of the Nyukela Pre-entry Certificate to
Senior Management Services. Skills and competencies: Strong digital
leadership capabilities, including the ability to drive innovation, embrace
emerging technologies and lead business process transformation within a
digital-first environment; including the modernisation of financial management
processes and systems, digital governance controls and technology-enabled
oversight mechanisms. Strategic leadership and execution capabilities,
including strategic planning, decision-making, accountability and the ability to
lead financial governance within a complex organisational environment.
Advanced financial management and governance capabilities, including
budgeting, financial planning, expenditure management, supply chain
management, revenue management, audit compliance management, financial
risk management and the interpretation and implementation of PFMA and
Treasury Regulations. Strong analytical and operations management
capabilities, including programme and project management, policy
development, research, business process optimisation, problem-solving,
planning and organising, and the ability to work effectively under pressure and
meet organisational targets. Excellent stakeholder management and
interpersonal capabilities, including influencing, networking, diplomacy,
communication, presentation and business report writing skills, with the ability
to engage effectively with executive management, oversight structures and
strategic stakeholders. Strong people management and change leadership
capability, including team leadership, coaching, empowerment, talent
development, and the ability to drive organisational culture transformation and
workforce adoption of digital solutions. Strong numerical skills, high levels of
professionalism, ethical conduct, honesty and integrity, attention to detail,
sound judgement and a commitment to public service excellence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
key functions: Provide strategic and executive leadership to the Finance and
Supply Chain Management Branch, including the effective management of
human, financial and physical resources, as well as governance, risk and
compliance processes. Lead the modernisation and digital transformation of
financial and supply chain management systems, processes and controls in
alignment with Departmental priorities and national digital government
objectives. Provide strategic leadership and direction to the Department on
financial management, budgeting, accounting, expenditure management,
revenue management, asset and fleet management, supply chain
management and public-private partnership initiatives in accordance with the
PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Lead the Department’s financial
planning, forecasting and budgeting processes, including medium- and long-
term financial strategy development, financial modelling, resource allocation,
expenditure oversight and the optimisation of financial performance and
sustainability. Provide strategic financial advice and support to the Accounting
Officer and Executive Management on financial governance, fiscal planning,
strategic investment decisions, financial risks and the financial implications of
Departmental initiatives and reforms. Oversee the implementation of robust
financial governance frameworks, including internal control systems, audit-
readiness strategies, compliance management, financial risk-management
practices, and consequence management measures, to achieve and sustain
clean audit outcomes and strengthen the Department’s financial maturity.
Facilitate high-level stakeholder engagement and represent the Department in
governance, audit and financial management structures, including leading
Audit Committee engagements on behalf of the Department, to promote
effective oversight, accountability and organisational performance. Lead the
development, review and implementation of financial and supply chain
management policies, directives, frameworks and operational standards
aligned to national legislation, Treasury prescripts and Departmental priorities.
Ensure the achievement of Branch performance targets, operational efficiency,
effective service delivery and the institutionalisation of accountability, ethical
governance and organisational values across the Branch.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Proby Reddy at (060) 976 7508 or Ms Sandra Mkhaliphi at (072) 527 6033
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za, or via email to
financerecruitment@dha.gov.za (limited to 2.5MB in size. Should an
automated acknowledgement of receipt not be received when an application is
emailed, this could mean that the application was not received due to the size
37
of the attachments. Should this occur, kindly resend the application in 2 / 3
parts, splitting the attachments accordingly), or delivered for the attention of
the enquires person cited for this post, to the Department of Home Affairs, Head
Office, 5th Floor Hallmark Building, 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street,
Pretoria Central.
38
ANNEXURE I
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE
The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in terms of race, gender and disability within the
Department through the filling of posts.
APPLICATIONS : Independent Police Investigative Directorate) Hand deliver to Ground Floor
473 B Benstra Building, Stanza Bopape Street (Church Street), Arcadia,
Pretoria,0002. Recruitment24@ipid.gov.za (Please indicate the post name and
reference number on the subject line) when applying through e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. M Chauke Tel No: (012) 399 0210
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on applications but must submit Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Applications quoting the correct reference number must be submitted on
the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents . Received applications using the incorrect
application form (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for
employment form must be fully completed, signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. A recently updated, comprehensive CV as well
as a fully completed and initialled new signed Z83 (Section A, B, C & D are
compulsory and section E, F and G are not compulsory if CV it is attached).
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part-F must be answered. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification; it must be accompanied
by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) (only when shortlisted). All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will
be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated by
the Department. Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection
panel will recommend candidates to attend competency assessment using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Applicants who do not
comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications
received late, will not be considered. Due to the large number of applications
we envisage to receive, applications will not be acknowledged, if you have not
been contacted within three (3) weeks after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidate for the post will be required to submit the documents on
or before the date of the interview. The successful candidate will have to
undergo security vetting. His / her character should be beyond reproach. The
appointment is subject to security clearance, verification of qualifications and
competency assessment (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). Applicants must declare
any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations
against them. Should this be uncovered during / after the interview took place,
the application will not be considered and in the unlikely event, that the person
has been appointed such appointment will be terminated. The successful
candidate will be appointed subject to positive results of the security vetting
process. All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict
of interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may
be associated with. The successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of 12 months and will be required to sign a performance agreement. The
suitable candidate will be selected with the intention of promoting representivity
and achieving affirmative action targets as contemplated in the Department’s
Employment Equity Plan. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate
reserves the right to fill or not fill the bellow-mentioned posts. Invitation to serve
on Financial Misconduct Committee for the IPID
ERRATUM: Kindly note that post of Assistant Director: Financial Accounting
with Ref No: Q9/2026/30 advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 18
dated 29 May 2026 with a closing date of 12 June 2026, please note that the
closing date has been extended to 22 June 2026. Apologies for any
inconvenience caused.
39
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/34 : FINANCIAL MISCONDUCT COMMITTEE MEMBER REF NO: Q9/2026/36
(X3 POSTS)
Term of Office: The term of office will be 36 months from the starting date,
subject to renewal at the discretion of the Department. Due to nature of
committee work, meetings will be held in person unless circumstances require
virtual meetings.
SALARY : Remuneration shall be in accordance with National Treasury Regulations
3.1.6, read with 20.2.3. Members will be remunerated for preparation, travelling
and attendance of meetings.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants for the Financial Misconduct Committee Member must be in
possession of a matric plus a postgraduate degree or equivalent qualification
as recognized by SAQA, with at least 10 years or experience in the following
fields: Accounting, Auditing, Risk Management, Financial Management,
Compliance, or Law/Investigation. Attributes: Financial Misconduct Committee
applicants must have knowledge of the Public Sector and sound experience in
Governance and Risk Management, Auditing, Legal with good understanding
of Corporate Governance, Public Finance Management Act and Treasury
Regulations, DPSA Guideline on National Departments PFMA Compliance and
Reporting Framework. Applicants with extensive knowledge and background
in the field of Investigations, as well as qualified as CA/SA), CIA, CISA, CFE,
are encouraged to apply.
DUTIES : Successful Financial Misconduct Committee applicants will be required to
exercise their oversight towards the IPID financial misconduct management
through the effective execution of the Financial Misconduct Committee as
outlined in the Terms of Reference in line with the PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
Public Service Act, IPID Act and the PFMA Compliance and Reporting
Framework. Independently investigate allegations of financial misconduct
(unauthorized, irregular and fruitless and wasteful expenditure) and make
recommendations on appropriate actions. Monitor the progress of disciplinary
hearings against transgressors to ensure application of consequence
management. The Financial Misconduct Committee will report to the Executive
Director to strengthen its oversight responsibilities. The Committee will meet
at least four times (4) per annum, with authority to convene additional meetings
as circumstances require.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Khashane Tel No: (012) 399 0187
POST 20/35 : FINANCIAL MISCONDUCT COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON REF NO:
Q9/2026/37 (X1 POST)
Term of Office: The term of office will be 36 months from the starting date,
subject to renewal at the discretion of the Department. Due to nature of
committee work, meetings will be held in person unless circumstances require
virtual meetings.
SALARY : Remuneration shall be in accordance with National Treasury Regulations
3.1.6, read with 20.2.3. Chairperson will be remunerated for preparation,
traveling and attendance of meetings.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants for the Financial Misconduct Committee Chairperson must be in
possession of a matric plus a postgraduate degree or equivalent qualification
as recognized by SAQA, with at least 10 years or experience in the following
fields: Accounting, Auditing, Risk Management, Financial Management,
Compliance, or Law/Investigation. Attributes: Financial Misconduct Committee
applicants must have knowledge of the Public Sector and sound experience in
Governance and Risk Management, Auditing, Legal with good understanding
of Corporate Governance, Public Finance Management Act and Treasury
Regulations, DPSA Guideline on National Departments PFMA Compliance and
Reporting Framework. Proven track record / membership of the following
committees: Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee Ethics Committee
and/or relevant Governance Body. Applicants with extensive knowledge and
background in the field of Investigations, as well as qualified as CA/SA), CIA,
CISA, CFE, are encouraged to apply.
DUTIES : Successful Financial Misconduct Committee Chairperson applicants will be
required to exercise their oversight towards IPID financial misconduct
40
management through the effective execution of the Financial Misconduct
Committee as outlined in the Terms of Reference in line with the PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act, IPID Act and the PFMA Compliance
and Reporting Framework. Independently investigate allegations of financial
misconduct (unauthorized, irregular and fruitless and wasteful expenditure)
and make recommendations on appropriate actions. Monitor the progress of
disciplinary hearings against transgressors to ensure application of
consequence management. The Financial Misconduct Committee will report to
the Executive Director to strengthen its oversight responsibilities. The
Committee will meet at least four times (4) per annum, with authority to
convene additional meetings as circumstances require.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Khashane Tel No: (012) 399 0187
41
ANNEXURE J
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
The Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling
of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108
of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of JICS will be taken into consideration. Women and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the EE Target. JICS
reserves the rights to fill these positions.
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be submitted through following link:
https://forms.gle/9z2RfEAGoCkMRkuz6 or hand delivered to Block C3, Eco
Origins Office Park, Witch-hazel Street, Centurion, 0046.
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resources
CLOSING DATE : 30 June 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 20:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment and saved with
surname and initials. JPEG (picture/snapshot) applications will not be
accepted. Failure to do so will result in your application being disqualified.
Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s)
advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed
below. Failure to fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All applications
must reach the Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) on/or
before the closing date and time. JICS cannot be held responsible for server
delays. Applications submitted in any other way other than the published link
or hand delivery will be treated as invalid. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to indicate “refer to CV” or “see
attached”. However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part “F” must be answered and the declaration signed. Only
an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience, if any) and
a completed and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other
related documents on or before the day of the interview following the
communication from Human Resources and such qualification(s) and other
related document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-
RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’ technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used for the sole purpose of this application and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. Due to
the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The JICS reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate
will be required to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement. All costs associated with an application will be borne by the
applicant. The appointment will be made according to the Public Service Act of
1994. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
42
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POST
POST 20/36 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MANDATORY REPORTING REF NO: JI 32/2026
Directorate: Legal Services and Compliance Monitoring
SALARY : R487 107 per annum
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12/Senior Certificate, BProc / LLB
Degree, 5-year relevant working experience in the legal environment of which
3 years must be in a supervisory capacity. Computer literate, analytical skills,
problem solving, communication skills, research and reporting writing and
presentation skills are essential. In depth knowledge and understanding of the
Constitution, Correctional Services Act, PAJA, POPIA, Criminal Procedure Act,
Law of Evidence, interpretation of Statute and other legal framework governing
the correctional environment and public service. Proficiency in English and at
least one other official language. Ability to write analytically. Valid driver’s
license is essential and willingness to travel. Admission as an attorney or
advocate will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to oversee that all mandatory
reporting as per legislation are met by the Department of Correctional Services.
Monitor, enquire and evaluate reports received on all inmates in terms of
section 95D of the Correctional Services Act. Develop strategies/ policies
(SOP) and systems of dealing with mandatory reports and record keeping.
Write reports and make recommendations on systemic problems and
practices, ensuring a good administration of mandatory reports by DCS. Train
and educate staff on dealing with mandatory matters. Report on all activities of
the unit to the Deputy Director Complaints and Mandatory Reporting. Manage,
coordinate and foster relationships with external stakeholders. Supervise
senior case officers and clerks in the unit and handle other tasks as directed
by the Deputy Director or the Director.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mohlaba Tel No: (012) 321 0303
43
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview, the selection
committee will recommend candidates for a generic management competency
assessment, as per the Department of Public Service and Administration
(DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’ managerial
competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false or
fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post.
Applications submitted via email will be acknowledged via an automated
response. Applications received manually will not be acknowledged due to high
volumes of applications received. If you have not heard from us within 3
months, please consider your application to be unsuccessful. Should, during
any stage of the recruitment process, a moratorium be placed on the filling of
posts or the Department is affected by any process such as, but not limited to,
restructuring or reorganisation of posts, the Department reserves the right to
cancel the recruitment process and re-advertise the post at any time in the
future. Important: DLRRD is an equal opportunity employer committed to
promoting representivity and affirmative action. We encourage applications
from all qualified candidates. The Department reserves the right not to fill
vacancies. By applying you consent to the collection and processing of your
personal information for recruitment purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to be available for assessments and interviews at a date and time as
determined by the Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel
suitability checks, security vetting and reference checks (including social media
profiles). Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any
other allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/37 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL COORDINATION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/57
Chief Directorate: Provincial Coordination
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Public
44
Administration / Public Management / Business Administration (NQF Level 7)
or related equivalent qualification and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry
Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5 years of
experience at senior managerial level in the relevant environment. Job related
knowledge: Planning, resource allocation and performance management of
department-wide outcomes. Develop and implement consistent corporate
performance monitoring to focus on the delivery of Provincial Shared Service
outcomes. Initiate and coordinate the implementation of strategic corporate
projects to improve Provincial Shared Service Centre’s ability to meet strategic
outcomes and exercise appropriate discretion to achieve service delivery
objectives and required outcomes. Develop and implement a Corporate
Governance Framework and corporate activity process including planning,
monitoring and reporting and ensuring that strategic priorities are assessed for
risk and value through the application of governance principles and processes.
Maintain, develop and implement a Corporate Governance Framework (CGF)
to ensure high standards of accountability and the effective delivery of the
department’s objectives and community value. Job related skills: Financial
management. Communication (verbal and written). Interpersonal relations and
conflict management. Business management and development. Leadership
qualities. Facilitation and presentation. Computer literacy. Problem solving.
Analytical. A valid driver’s licence and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Oversee corporate governance, and performance management of outcomes
of the Provincial Offices (PSSCS) through the Implementation of efficient
Corporate Governance Frameworks. Provide strategic advice to the Deputy
Director- General: Provincial Operations on all matters pertaining to
coordination and management of Provincial Shared Services. Oversee the
compilation of status report in terms of Provincial Shared Services Centres
performance progress. Contribute to short, medium and long-term business
planning, analysing the external environment and identifying opportunities that
will support the overall business direction of the Provincial Shared Service
Centres. Manage interface between the Provincial Shared Service Chief
Directors and Deputy Director-General: Provincial Operations. Provide
guidance and leadership in the implementation of decisions / directives from
the Deputy Director-General to the Chief Director: Provincial Shared Service
Centre. Manage and oversee the development of standardised integrated
provincial operational plans and ensure the co-ordination of accurate reporting
on outcomes and provincial performance. Ensure the development of
standardised performance indicators for Provincial Shared Services Centres.
Contribute to the corporate management of the Provincial Shared Services
Centres including the development of the targets / objectives. Provide co-
ordination support to branches in relation tom service delivery at Provincial
Shared Services Centres. Ensure coordination and integration of delivery of
the departmental programs. Coordinate the drafting of annual integrated
operational plans to facilitate integrated delivery of the departmental programs
at Provincial Shared Services Centre level. Ensure that designated duties are
executed at all times in accordance with corporate policies and procedures.
Oversee the implementation of provincial support services and develop service
improvement plans and implement a service improvement programme in
support of the Provincial Shared Service Centres operational planning
objectives. Manage research on corporate support services to improve service
delivery at the Provincial Shared Service Centres. Oversee the development
and maintain performance dashboard. Oversee the development and
maintenance of performance dashboard for the Provincial Shared Services
Centres, ensure regular performance monitoring.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Letompa Tel No: (012) 312 8112
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post57@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 20/38 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL OFFICE REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/59
Chief Directorate: Provincial Office
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
45
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Public
Administration / Public Management / Business Administration / Management
(NQF Level 7) or related equivalent qualification and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-
entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5
years of experience at senior managerial level. Proven experience in Project
Management. Job related knowledge: Ability to implement an outcome-based
performance approach. Ability to coordinate the Provincial Office functions to
achieve departmental objectives. Ability to initiate and coordinate the
implementation of strategic DLRRD development projects to improve service
delivery. Ability to develop and implement governance framework and ensure
Provincial Office function effectively and efficiently. Ability to develop and
implement corporate performance monitor programme. Ability to think
conceptually when analysing data and designing concepts to modify and
improve implementation of corporate policies, procedures and processes. Job
related skills: Good monitoring and evaluation. Good problem-solving. Skills to
design and implement change management programmes. Ensure good
customer care. A valid driver’s licence. Willingness to travel. Ability to interact
at all levels within both management and Intergovernmental relations (IGR)
context.
DUTIES : Manage, oversee and monitor the implementation of departmental services
and programmes at provincial and district level. Coordinate the provision of
land acquisition services. Coordinate land development support. Provide
property management services. Coordinate implementation of land tenure and
land rights programmes. Provide spatial planning and land use management
services at provincial level. Manage and oversee the production and
submission of programmes and projects reports. Facilitate the implementation
of national development support initiatives. Facilitate the implementation of
strategic land acquisition initiatives. Facilitate the implementation of property
management initiatives. Facilitate the implementation of tenure reform
initiatives. Render corporate and financial support services. Provide project
management services. Collate and provide project data to the office of the
Chief Director: Provincial Office. Direct and oversee the maintenance of
response handling systems to facilitate requests and queries from DLRRD
Head Office and external stakeholders. Facilitate the integration of planning,
resource allocation and performance management of outcomes of the
Provincial Office through the Corporate Governance Framework. Lead the
development and implementation of consistent corporate performance
monitoring and evaluation to focus on the delivery of Provincial Office annual
performance outcomes. Ensure robust governance, effective decision making,
value for money and appropriate benefits are achieved through corporate
activity, policy and strategy frameworks. Provide assistance with the initiation,
management coordination and the implementation of strategic corporate
projects. Establish and maintain internal and external networks to monitor
trends and best practice in corporate governance. Manage and oversee the
rendering of financial, supply chain and corporate support services in the
Provincial Office. Oversee human resource administration support. Oversee
safety and security services within the province. Manage records information.
Oversee information technology support services. Oversee communication
and events management services. Monitor and mainstreaming of gender and
transformation initiatives in development programme. Advise, liaise and
coordinate with district corporate services on issues that may arise. Provide
financial support services. Provide supply chain, facilities and office
administration services. Liaise and interact with relevant stakeholders in the
province. Oversee and provide support in community participation, community
planning, corporate and operational planning, program performance reporting,
corporate project, policy, strategy and infrastructure development and
implementation and corporate governance development and implementation.
Ensure provincial compliance through management of information, risk and
audit. Monitor and track all departmental programmes and projects initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms DT. Machoga Tel No: (015) 495 1955
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 61
Biccard street, Polokwane, 0700 or by email to Post59@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
46
POST 20/39 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: LAND RESTITUTION SUPPORT REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/62
Chief Directorate: Land Restitution Support
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : North West (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Public
Administration / Development Studies / Law or relevant equivalent qualification
(NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS)
submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5 years of experience at senior
managerial level. Job related knowledge: Project management. Programme
management. Strategic capability and planning. Budgeting. Expenditure
reporting. Monitoring and evaluation. Human resources management.
Financial management. Supply chain management. Job related skills:
Networking. Project and programme management. Team management.
Interpersonal relations and conflict management. Budget forecasting.
Computer literacy. Problem solving and decision-making. Time management.
Business. Communication (verbal and written). Organisation. A valid driver’s
licence. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Ensure the investigation and implementation with regard to restitution of land
rights (pre-settlement). Coordinate research reports in terms of rule 3 and rule
5. Ensure valuations are undertaken. Lead and manage negotiations linked to
settlement models. Ensure legal compliance. Develop submissions in terms of
Section 42D of Restitution Act. Ensure efficient risk management and
implementation of financial controls and manage financial and corporate
administrative services. Provide input to the regional risk register. Manage the
province specific risks. Ensure adherence to financial controls. Lead the
research in respect of special projects such as expropriations and manage
financial and corporate administrative services. Research special projects.
Ensure compliance to Section 42E. Provide inputs with regards to the drafting
of legal documents in respect of the Restitution Act, regulations and policies of
the Commission and ensure compliance. Manage the provincial specific
litigation. Ensure effective compliance are adhered to. Ensure restitution
projects are included in municipalities independent development programmes
and align priorities and financial resources. Participate in provincial and
municipal Intergovernmental Relations (IGR) structures. Provide input to
municipal and provincial development planning and programmes. Ensure that
the Rural Economy Transformation Model (RETM) and / or relevant sector
strategies are factored in all settlements. Coordinate settlement negotiations
and packages linked to the RETM.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Moruwe Tel No: (012) 407 4149
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post62@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 20/40 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: LAND RESTITUTION SUPPORT REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/63
Chief Directorate: Land Restitution Support
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal (Pietermaritzburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Public
Administration / Development Studies / Law or relevant equivalent qualification
(NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS)
submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5 years of experience at senior
managerial level. Job related knowledge: Project management. Programme
management. Strategic capability and planning. Budgeting. Expenditure
reporting. Monitoring and evaluation. Human resources management.
Financial management. Supply chain management. Job related skills:
47
Networking. Project and programme management. Team management.
Interpersonal relations and conflict management. Budget forecasting.
Computer literacy. Problem solving and decision-making. Time management.
Business. Communication (verbal and written). Organisation. A valid driver’s
licence. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Ensure the investigation and implementation with regard to restitution of land
rights (pre-settlement). Coordinate research reports in terms of rule 3 and rule
5. Ensure valuations are undertaken. Lead and manage negotiations linked to
settlement models. Ensure legal compliance. Develop submissions in terms of
Section 42D of Restitution Act. Ensure efficient risk management and
implementation of financial controls and manage financial and corporate
administrative services. Provide input to the regional risk register. Manage the
province specific risks. Ensure adherence to financial controls. Lead the
research in respect of special projects such as expropriations and manage
financial and corporate administrative services. Research special projects.
Ensure compliance to Section 42E. Provide inputs with regards to the drafting
of legal documents in respect of the Restitution Act, regulations and policies of
the Commission and ensure compliance. Manage the provincial specific
litigation. Ensure effective compliance are adhered to. Ensure restitution
projects are included in municipalities independent development programmes
and align priorities and financial resources. Participate in provincial and
municipal Intergovernmental Relations (IGR) structures. Provide input to
municipal and provincial development planning and programmes. Ensure that
the Rural Economy Transformation Model (RETM) and / or relevant sector
strategies are factored in all settlements. Coordinate settlement negotiations
and packages linked to the RETM.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Moruwe Tel No: (012) 407 4149
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post63@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 20/41 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/60
Directorate: Financial and Supply Chain Management Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Cost
Management Accounting / Financial Management / Accounting / Public
Finance / Auditing / Supply Chain Management / Logistics Management /
Purchasing Management / Management (Logistics / Supply Chain
Management) (NQF Level 7) or related equivalent qualification and a Nyukela
certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment.
Minimum of 5 years of experience at middle / senior managerial level in the
relevant environment. Job related knowledge: Extensive knowledge of
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, Treasury Regulations Generally
Reviewed Accounting Principles. Job related skills: Coaching and Mentoring
(though leadership). Prepare and deliver presentations. Analytical thinking.
Adaptability and Flexibility. Customer service. Initiative. Innovation and
creativity. Process improvement. Communication (verbal and written). Project
management. Computer literate. Willingness to travel. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Ensure compliance to financial management standards by adhering to policies
and guidelines. Ensure compliance with Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations and other related legislation and instructions. Ensure
implementation of policies, systems, procedures, and processes to ensure
sound financial management. Oversee financial support services within the
provincial shared service centres. Manage financial accounting processes.
Manage the departmental budget. Manage salaries and payroll. Maintenance
of finance systems. Oversee supply chain, facilities and office administration.
Manage the demand management plan and acquisition of goods, services and
assets. Provide logistics, travel and transport services. Provide assets and
facilities management. Oversee financial management support services.
48
Provide internal control and reporting services. Develop and maintain budget
and reporting. Provide payment services. Provide asset revenue management.
Provide lease revenue management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms DT. Machoga Tel No: (015) 495 1955
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 61
Biccard street, Polokwane, 0700 or by email to Post60@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 20/42 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/61
Directorate: Financial and Supply Chain Management Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Cost
Management Accounting / Financial Management / Accounting / Public
Finance / Auditing / Supply Chain Management / Logistics Management /
Purchasing Management / Management (Logistics / Supply Chain
Management) (NQF Level 7) or related equivalent qualification and a Nyukela
certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment.
Minimum of 5 years of experience at middle / senior managerial level in the
relevant environment. Job related knowledge: Extensive knowledge of
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, Treasury Regulations Generally
Reviewed Accounting Principles. Job related skills: Coaching and Mentoring
(though leadership). Prepare and deliver presentations. Analytical thinking.
Adaptability and Flexibility. Customer service. Initiative. Innovation and
creativity. Process improvement. Communication (verbal and written). Project
management. Computer literate. Willingness to travel. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Ensure compliance to financial management standards by adhering to policies
and guidelines. Ensure compliance with Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations and other related legislation and instructions. Ensure
implementation of policies, systems, procedures, and processes to ensure
sound financial management. Oversee financial support services within the
provincial shared service centres. Manage financial accounting processes.
Manage the departmental budget. Manage salaries and payroll. Maintenance
of finance systems. Oversee supply chain, facilities and office administration.
Manage the demand management plan and acquisition of goods, services and
assets. Provide logistics, travel and transport services. Provide assets and
facilities management. Oversee financial management support services.
Provide internal control and reporting services. Develop and maintain budget
and reporting. Provide payment services. Provide asset revenue management.
Provide lease revenue management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Vuuren Tel No: (043) 701 8127 or Ms A Kili Tel No: (043) 701 8186
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Ocean
Terrace, Block H, corner of Coutts and Moore Street, Quigney, East London or
by email to Post61@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 20/43 : DIRECTOR: QUALITY ASSURANCE AND ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/64
Directorate: Quality Assurance and Administration
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree / Advanced Diploma in Public
Administration / Business Management / Management / Commerce /
Accounting / Finance / Internal Audit (NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate
(Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of
5 years of experience at middle / senior managerial level in Quality Assurance
49
/ Finance / Internal Audit / Public Administration and management environment.
Job related knowledge: Knowledge of Restitution process. Financial
management processes and procedures. Supply chain management
processes and procedures. Human resources management. Risk
management and its relevant legislations. Government budget processes. Job
related skills: Proven managerial, supervisory and project management. Good
planning, organising and problem-solving. Good communication (verbal and
written). Computer literacy (Microsoft Office). A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide quality assurance of submissions on land claims with regard to
content, completeness, accuracy by setting and implementing standards as
well as reviewing files. Check policy and financial compliance for settlement of
claims and finalisation thereof as per the Annual Performance Plan (APP) and
Operational Plan. Conduct quality assurance on all operation submissions for
approval i.e. research, verifications, valuations, offers, declarations, Section
42Ds and Section 26. Implement project management methodology for the
management of land claims. Ensure effective and efficient risk management
and implementation of internal legal and financial control. Ensure compliance
to existing financial delegations. Regular review and implementation of existing
control systems. Respond to requests for information (RFIs) and audit findings.
Manage audit and risk issues. Ensure implementation of audit action plan.
Ensure project on land claims are coordinated and settled in terms of
Restitution Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and other applicable
legislation and prescripts. Ensure effective and efficient management of
allocated resources in order to prevent unauthorised, irregular, and fruitless
expenditure. Coordinate the procurement function between Restitution Office
and Shared Services Centre supply chain management. Ensure sound
financial management in line with applicable policies and prescripts. Monitor
and drive spending of the allocated budget. Ensure sound records and
information management. Ensure proper control measures are in place
regarding approval and authorisation of funds. Ensure compliance with all
applicable legislations and departmental policies i.e. PFMA, Treasury
regulations. Advice and assist the office on all issues of compliance regarding
policy and legislation. Provide financial and operational plan reports.
Coordinate preparations and submissions of quality assured reports as per
APP and Operational Plan. Consolidate and compile the reports for
management meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Z Memela Tel No: (043) 700 6005
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post64@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 20/44 : DIRECTOR: QUALITY ASSURANCE AND ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/65
Directorate: Quality Assurance and Administration
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Northern Cape (Kimberley)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree / Advanced Diploma in Public
Administration / Business Management / Management / Commerce /
Accounting / Finance / Internal Audit (NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate
(Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of
5 years of experience at middle / senior managerial level in Quality Assurance
/ Finance / Internal Audit / Public Administration and management environment.
Job related knowledge: Knowledge of Restitution process. Financial
management processes and procedures. Supply chain management
processes and procedures. Human resources management. Risk
management and its relevant legislations. Government budget processes. Job
related skills: Proven managerial, supervisory and project management. Good
planning, organising and problem-solving. Good communication (verbal and
written). Computer literacy (Microsoft Office). A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide quality assurance of submissions on land claims with regard to
content, completeness, accuracy by setting and implementing standards as
50
well as reviewing files. Check policy and financial compliance for settlement of
claims and finalisation thereof as per the Annual Performance Plan (APP) and
Operational Plan. Conduct quality assurance on all operation submissions for
approval i.e. research, verifications, valuations, offers, declarations, Section
42Ds and Section 26. Implement project management methodology for the
management of land claims. Ensure effective and efficient risk management
and implementation of internal legal and financial control. Ensure compliance
to existing financial delegations. Regular review and implementation of existing
control systems. Respond to requests for information (RFIs) and audit findings.
Manage audit and risk issues. Ensure implementation of audit action plan.
Ensure project on land claims are coordinated and settled in terms of
Restitution Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and other applicable
legislation and prescripts. Ensure effective and efficient management of
allocated resources in order to prevent unauthorised, irregular, and fruitless
expenditure. Coordinate the procurement function between Restitution Office
and Shared Services Centre supply chain management. Ensure sound
financial management in line with applicable policies and prescripts. Monitor
and drive spending of the allocated budget. Ensure sound records and
information management. Ensure proper control measures are in place
regarding approval and authorisation of funds. Ensure compliance with all
applicable legislations and departmental policies i.e. PFMA, Treasury
regulations. Advice and assist the office on all issues of compliance regarding
policy and legislation. Provide financial and operational plan reports.
Coordinate preparations and submissions of quality assured reports as per
APP and Operational Plan. Consolidate and compile the reports for
management meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Du Toit Tel No: (053) 831 6501
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post65@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 20/45 : DIRECTOR: OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/66
Directorate: Operational Management
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor's Degree / Advanced Diploma in Law / Agriculture /
Economics / Social Sciences / Development Studies or related equivalent
qualification (NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to
the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5 years of experience at
middle / senior managerial level. Job related knowledge: Thorough knowledge
and understanding and / or experience in land reform or rural development.
Knowledge of budget processes. Basic knowledge of financial and
administration systems. Knowledge and implementation of Public Finance
Management Act, Division of Revenue Act and Budgeting. Expenditure
reporting. Monitoring and evaluation. Strategic planning. Human resource
management. Supply chain management. Public Service Act. Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act. Job related skills: Analytical.
Communication (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Report writing.
Problem solving and Negotiation. Strategic capabilities and leadership. Project
management. Networking and Team management. Budget forecasting. A valid
driver's licence.
DUTIES : Manage investigations and facilitate requests for restitution of land rights.
Provide strategic leadership, overall management, and administration of
claims. Lead, direct and oversee the quality of service delivery regarding the
investigations of claims. Manage research and investigations of outstanding
claims. Manage the undertaken project management for settlement of land
claims. Overall management of the settlement of land claims. Oversee
compliance with the standard operating procedures for the settlement cycle.
Develop the strategic and general plans for the Commissioner and ensure that
the strategic plans of the Commission are implemented, monitored and
evaluated. Manage the implementation of restitution of land rights and facilitate
51
the settlement of claims. Develop and manage the standardisation of
operations and service. Manage settlement of claims in the project register and
Kuyasa Project list through the approval of Section 42D memorandum.
Finalisation of land claims. Support operational teams during the packaging of
settlement / sale agreements by facilitating negotiations with private investors
and claimants. Overall management of the finalisation processes by the
operations staff and compliance with standard operating procedures. Manage
the workplans and performance of operational staff. Manage negotiations,
communications, and liaison with stakeholders. Enhance intergovernmental
relations. Ensure correct and adequate representation of the Regional Land
Claims Commissioner (RLCC) at various levels and forums. Management of
statistical information. Monthly and quarterly update of the information on
Kuyasa database. Engagement and consultation with information
management unit. Ensure management and safe keeping of records. Provide
legal support services. Policy advocacy and implementation. Monitoring and
evaluation of departmental policies. Implementation and reviewal of restitution
legislation and policies. Provide support to the legal unit and implementation of
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SR Rasalanavho Tel No: (012) 407 4453
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post66@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 20/46 : DIRECTOR: OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/67
Directorate: Operational Management
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Cape Town)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor's Degree / Advanced Diploma in Law / Agriculture /
Economics / Social Sciences / Development Studies or related equivalent
qualification (NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to
the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5 years of experience at
middle / senior managerial level. Job related knowledge: Thorough knowledge
and understanding and / or experience in land reform or rural development.
Knowledge of budget processes. Basic knowledge of financial and
administration systems. Knowledge and implementation of Public Finance
Management Act, Division of Revenue Act and Budgeting. Expenditure
reporting. Monitoring and evaluation. Strategic planning. Human resource
management. Supply chain management. Public Service Act. Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act. Job related skills: Analytical.
Communication (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Report writing.
Problem solving and Negotiation. Strategic capabilities and leadership. Project
management. Networking and Team management. Budget forecasting. A valid
driver's licence.
DUTIES : Manage investigations and facilitate requests for restitution of land rights.
Provide strategic leadership, overall management, and administration of
claims. Lead, direct and oversee the quality of service delivery regarding the
investigations of claims. Manage research and investigations of outstanding
claims. Manage the undertaken project management for settlement of land
claims. Overall management of the settlement of land claims. Oversee
compliance with the standard operating procedures for the settlement cycle.
Develop the strategic and general plans for the Commissioner and ensure that
the strategic plans of the Commission are implemented, monitored and
evaluated. Manage the implementation of restitution of land rights and facilitate
the settlement of claims. Develop and manage the standardisation of
operations and service. Manage settlement of claims in the project register and
Kuyasa Project list through the approval of Section 42D memorandum.
Finalisation of land claims. Support operational teams during the packaging of
settlement / sale agreements by facilitating negotiations with private investors
and claimants. Overall management of the finalisation processes by the
operations staff and compliance with standard operating procedures. Manage
the workplans and performance of operational staff. Manage negotiations,
52
communications, and liaison with stakeholders. Enhance intergovernmental
relations. Ensure correct and adequate representation of the Regional Land
Claims Commissioner (RLCC) at various levels and forums. Management of
statistical information. Monthly and quarterly update of the information on
Kuyasa database. Engagement and consultation with information
management unit. Ensure management and safe keeping of records. Provide
legal support services. Policy advocacy and implementation. Monitoring and
evaluation of departmental policies. Implementation and reviewal of restitution
legislation and policies. Provide support to the legal unit and implementation of
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SR Rasalanavho Tel No: (012) 407 4453
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post67@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 20/47 : DIRECTOR: OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/68
Directorate: Operational Management
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Northern Cape (Kimberley)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor's Degree / Advanced Diploma in Law / Agriculture /
Economics / Social Sciences / Development Studies or related equivalent
qualification (NQF Level 7) and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to
the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5 years of experience at
middle / senior managerial level. Job related knowledge: Thorough knowledge
and understanding and / or experience in land reform or rural development.
Knowledge of budget processes. Basic knowledge of financial and
administration systems. Knowledge and implementation of Public Finance
Management Act, Division of Revenue Act and Budgeting. Expenditure
reporting. Monitoring and evaluation. Strategic planning. Human resource
management. Supply chain management. Public Service Act. Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act. Job related skills: Analytical.
Communication (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Report writing.
Problem solving and Negotiation. Strategic capabilities and leadership. Project
management. Networking and Team management. Budget forecasting. A valid
driver's licence.
DUTIES : Manage investigations and facilitate requests for restitution of land rights.
Provide strategic leadership, overall management, and administration of
claims. Lead, direct and oversee the quality of service delivery regarding the
investigations of claims. Manage research and investigations of outstanding
claims. Manage the undertaken project management for settlement of land
claims. Overall management of the settlement of land claims. Oversee
compliance with the standard operating procedures for the settlement cycle.
Develop the strategic and general plans for the Commissioner and ensure that
the strategic plans of the Commission are implemented, monitored and
evaluated. Manage the implementation of restitution of land rights and facilitate
the settlement of claims. Develop and manage the standardisation of
operations and service. Manage settlement of claims in the project register and
Kuyasa Project list through the approval of Section 42D memorandum.
Finalisation of land claims. Support operational teams during the packaging of
settlement / sale agreements by facilitating negotiations with private investors
and claimants. Overall management of the finalisation processes by the
operations staff and compliance with standard operating procedures. Manage
the workplans and performance of operational staff. Manage negotiations,
communications, and liaison with stakeholders. Enhance intergovernmental
relations. Ensure correct and adequate representation of the Regional Land
Claims Commissioner (RLCC) at various levels and forums. Management of
statistical information. Monthly and quarterly update of the information on
Kuyasa database. Engagement and consultation with information
management unit. Ensure management and safe keeping of records. Provide
legal support services. Policy advocacy and implementation. Monitoring and
evaluation of departmental policies. Implementation and reviewal of restitution
53
legislation and policies. Provide support to the legal unit and implementation of
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SR Rasalanavho Tel No: (012) 407 4453
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post68@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/48 : SENIOR SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF
NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/58
Directorate: Logistics and Asset Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Financial Accounting / Commerce / Public
Administration (Management) or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 2
years working experience in asset management. Job related knowledge: Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Preferential Procurement
Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Departmental Supply Chain Management
Procedures and Policy, Asset management prescripts and Procedures. Job
related skills: Computer literacy. Interpersonal relations and conflict
management. General administration. Communication (verbal and written).
Supervisory responsibility. A valid driver's licence. Teamwork.
DUTIES : Ensure effective management of asset additions. Ensure capturing newly
procured assets. Physical barcode movable assets. Ensure that the
acceptance form is duly completed and signed. Maintain an asset addition file
with supporting documents. Ensure effective management of Asset Disposal
Process. Identify and compile list of redundant, obsolete and damaged assets
for disposal. Obtain approval through Disposal Committees. Facilitate the
disposal of assets according to the recommendations of the Disposal
Committee. Ensure that the asset register (BAUD) is updated for all assets
approved by the Disposal Committee. Maintain a disposal file with supporting
documents. Maintain a register for all lost assets supported by the relevant
supporting documents. Compile and submit the asset disposal closeout report.
Ensure effective management of the reconciliation between the asset register
(BAUD) and expenditure (BAS). Extract BAS reports. Request payment
batches from the province. Match the register for assets purchased against the
payment batches. Compile and submit reconciliation report. Ensure effective
management of the asset verification process. Draft the asset verification plan
/ Schedule. Perform asset verification and reconcile the physical count with the
asset register. Investigate discrepancies detected after reconciliation and
perform spot checks. Updating asset verification information and records.
Compile the asset verification reporting. Ensure effective management of the
BAUD System. User creations password reset. User terminations. Change
user access rights Perform backups of asset register. System optimization and
functionality.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mzamo Tel No: (012) 312 8206
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post58@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 20/49 : RECEPTIONIST / TELECOM OPERATOR REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/69
Directorate: District Office
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Northern Cape (ZF Mgcawu / Pixley Ka Seme District)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job related knowledge: Computer literacy particularly Microsoft
Excel. Job related skills: Excellent communication (verbal and written) and
interpersonal relations. Good organisational and People. Telephone etiquette.
Ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from different
54
backgrounds. Highly reliable. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good
grooming and presentation. Proficiency in at least 2 of the official languages in
relevant province.
DUTIES : Facilitate telephonic and related administration. Keep and maintain incoming
and outgoing documents register of the component. Attend to incoming
telephone calls. Screen and forward calls. Receive telephone messages.
Record telephone messages. Develop and maintain a database of contact
numbers for officials. Administrate attendance register. Administrate telephone
account. Facilitate switch board operation services. Receive requests from
users by email. Arrange the new / movement / swap / block / unblocking of
extensions. Programme the system for new / movement / swap / block /
unblocking the system. Test the line after programming. Inform the user. Attend
to clients with queries and provide information. Provide information to the
clients and answer all general enquiries. Facilitate boardroom bookings.
Manage and update calendar for boardroom bookings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Leberegane Tel No: (053) 830 4060
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to:
Magistrate Court Building, 6th floor, Knight Street, Corner of Stead Street,
Kimberley, 8300 or by email to Post69@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
55
ANNEXURE L
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
KwaZulu Natal/Pietermaritzburg/Durban: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X54314, Durban, 4000. Application can also be hand
delivered to Office of the Chief Justice Durban High Court, Human Resource
Office, Ground Floor, Corner Somsteu Road and Stalwart Simelane Street,
Durban, 4000
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
posts will be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access
to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment for SMS, a candidate
would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate
to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online
course, endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
56
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/50 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNANCE SUPPORT
SERVICES REF NO: 2026/42/OCJ
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package. consisting
of 70%/ 75% basic salary and 30%/25% flexible portion that may be structured
in terms of the applicable rules. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree
or Advanced Diploma in Political Science/ Public Management and
Governance/ Legal/ Public Administration or relevant qualification at NQF level
6/7, Minimum of 5 years’ experience of which 3 years should be at ASD/Junior
management level in parliamentary and governance environment, A driver’s
license. An LLB will serve added as an advantage. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of the Constitution
of the Republic, extensive knowledge and experience in Parliamentary
operations, knowledge of Legislative Framework, Medium Term Strategic
Framework (MTSF), understanding of Treasury and PFMA Regulations,
Government legislation, Monitoring and evaluation methods, Legislative
drafting and National Development Plan, knowledge of government systems
and structures, knowledge of relevant legislations and prescripts, computer
Literacy, problem solving skills, verbal and written communication skills,
analytical skills, interpersonal skills, negotiation skills, people and diversity
management skills, strategic and analytical skills. sound financial management
skills, report writing skills, presentation skills, research skills, project
management skills, ability to work with diverse people, ability to interpret and
apply policy.
DUTIES : Ensure administrative support to the Secretary General pertaining to
committee programme: Serve as a central point of contact between OCJ
Leadership, Ministry and Parliament, ensuring compliance with protocols and
Parliamentary Committees programme: Tracking parliamentary debates,
committee meetings and parliamentary questions related to OCJ and the
Judiciary: Analyse questions, co-oordinate, draft and facilitate responses to
Parliamentary questions posed to the Minister or Department ensuring the
responses are timeously submitted and comply with parliamentary standards:
Prepare briefings, presentation and reports ( in consultation with relevant Units)
for Parliamentary Committee meetings: Coordinate the attendance of
parliamentary meetings, events and debates, Secretariat support to all OCJ
Governance Structures and when required with ad-hoc management projects,
Conduct research on governance best practices to ensure alignment and the
highest standard of professionalism: Advise management on parliamentary
procedures, policy matters and the implications of the legislative
developments: Provide and maintain record management systems with
respect to parliamentary questions, reports emanating from the engagements
with parliamentary committees, policies and procedures: Manage the Sub
Directorate to ensure good governance practises and compliance with relevant
legislation and policies: Management of performance and development and
undertake Human Resource and other related administrative functions.
57
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms S Mpheshwa Tel No: (010) 493 2535
HR Related Enquiries: Mr K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2527
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/42/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 20/51 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2026/45/OCJ
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE KwaZulu Natal Division of The High Court: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB Degree or a minimum of 20
modules completed towards an LLB, BA / BCom Law degree. A minimum of
one (1) year secretarial experience. A valid driver’s license will serve as an
added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements.
Skills and competencies: Good communication skills (verbal and written),
administration and organisational skills, exceptional interpersonal skills, ability
to meet strict deadlines and to work under pressure, attention to detail,
customer service skills and excellent typing skills including Dictaphone typing,
confidentiality and time management, computer literacy (MS Word) and
research capabilities.
DUTIES : Render Secretarial support to the Judiciary, diarise the appointments and
meetings of the Judge, type and file the judgments, ensure the judgments that
are handed down (delivered), signed draft orders granted in court or virtually
are sent to the Typist for scanning, upload unto Case-lines/Court-Online and
the Library, ensure that all visitors are received, screened and their queries are
attended to, record all incoming and outgoing documents, order and collect
stationery for the Judge, provide support functions to Civil, Criminal and review
matters/courts and case allocations in chambers, collect the files before the
commencement of a Criminal matter from the Registrar’s office at the Criminal
section keep update the register of reviews and sign on receipt to return the
reviews to the Clerk, ensure that the register/template of the reserved
judgement is updated and notify the Statistics Officer and the office of the
Judge President when judgment has been handed down, ensure that the
transcribed judgements from transcribers reach the Judges for approval and
signature. Prepare court rolls for Opposed Motion and Urgent Court and
distribute to stakeholders, ensure that the Heads of Arguments from various
stakeholders are available to the Judge as per the filing that was done, provide
support functions to civil / criminal courts. Administer the correct Oath ID or
declaration in court, when required, ensure that the bench book of the Judge
is prepared and files are taken by Ushers to Court before the commencement
of the proceedings, ensure that all stakeholders involved are present in court
before commencement of proceedings, ensure that all cases are called on
record as per the court roll by means of calling the case number and the parties’
names, before a Judge can allow parties to start with their matters, ensure that
in the Criminal Court exhibits are handled, controlled and noted professionally,
provide general administrative support to the Judiciary, ensure that all the
travel, accommodation arrangements are in order and attend to sign the
documents for approval, ensure that the Judge’s logbook is submitted on or
before the 5th of every month to the Transport Officer, ensure that the car is
booked for either maintenance and service, receive the pre-authorisation for
the Judge’s vehicle, remind Judge of the invoices so that the submission of the
S&T claims can be processed, ensure the submissions of Cell phone and 3G
data claims for process purposes, ensure that all updates on the loose leafs in
the Judges library are attended to.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr MN Zondi Tel No: (033) 345 8211
HR Related Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 4931723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/45/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
58
POST 20/52 : SECURITY SUPERVISOR REF NO: 2026/46/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Local Division of The High Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of Grade 12. Grade B PSIRA certificate, a
minimum of three (03) years Security related experience and a valid driver’s
license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of the access control
procedures for the control and movement of equipment and stores, prescribed
security procedures (e.g., MIS, NISA, Protection of Information Act, etc.) and
the authority of security officers under these documents. knowledge of the
relevant emergency procedures. Security Policy and Procedures. Access to
Public Premises and Vehicle Act. OHS Act, 85 of 1993. computer literacy (MS
Office), Communication (verbal & written), supervisory, problem solving skills,
decision making skills, good interpersonal relations, listening skills and
planning and organising skills.
DUTIES : Authorise the equipments, documents and stores into or out of the building or
premises, inspect and report all none functioning of security measures (e.g. X-
Ray machines, walk-through metal detectors, security lights, CCTV,
Biometrics, etc.). check incidents/occurrence books/registers, monitor and
provide support in case of emergencies, monitor outcomes and institute the
necessary corrective measures to address deviations from norms and
standards, monitor access control to prevent unauthorised entry in buildings
and other premises, identify risks and threats to the security of the department,
provide information regarding incidents to investigating officers, conduct
preliminary incident investigations and submit reports, report faulty
equipment/systems, ensure systems are functioning optimally through
scheduled services, monitor and respond to alarm system, supervise all control
room activities. report all incidents and any identified non-compliance relating
to security prescripts, review of footages upon request through proper
procedure, update all registers for the incidents observed, determine rosters,
shift schedules and overtime, control leave and related personnel matters in
line with HR procedures and prescripts, administer key control system, monitor
performance of employees and determine training needs. Contract
management and management of outsourced security services. compile and
submit monthly reports on security and OHS related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms K Marias Tel No: (031) 492 5502
HR Related Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/46/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
59
ANNEXURE M
OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
The Office of the Public Service Commission (OPSC) is an equal opportunity representative employer.
Therefore, the OPSC is intentional in promoting representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public
Service through filling these positions in line with the approved Employment Equity Plan. All candidates
whose appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representativeness are encouraged to apply.
Preference will be given to Coloureds, Indians, Whites and persons with disabilities. An indication of
representativeness profile by applicants will expedite the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : You can apply on www.psc.gov.za under “vacancies” or forward your
application stating the relevant reference number to: The Director-General,
Office of the Public Service Commission, Private Bag X121, Pretoria, 0001 or
hand-deliver at Commission House, Office Park Block B, 536 Francis Baard
Street, Arcadia, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Mabuza
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026; 16h30
NOTE : Applications must consist of a) A fully completed and signed PDF Z83
application form which came into effect on 1 January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies). b) A recent comprehensive PDF
CV with a minimum of three (3) contactable referees with their telephone
numbers and email addresses. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
bring certified copies of ID, drivers’ license and qualifications on or before the
interviews. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification(s), it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). The successful candidate will be required to obtain a top-
secret clearance issued by the State Security Agency. The OPSC will verify the
qualifications and conduct personnel suitability checks on recommended
candidates. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only, thus,
if you have not been contacted within 3 months from the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Please
take note that late applications will not be considered and the OPSC will not be
held liable. All shortlisted candidates including SMS shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. Following
the interview and technical exercise on SMS posts, the Selection Committee
will recommend a candidate/s to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directives on the competency-
based assessments). The competency will be testing generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
Note (A pre-entry certificate (Nyukela) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) prior appointment for all SMS appointments is required).
Applicants are advised against the use of the old Z83 application form which
was valid until 31 December 2020 because it will render such application/s
invalid. All shortlisted candidates must avail themselves on the date and time
determined by the OPSC. The OPSC reserves the right to fill or not fill any
vacancy.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/53 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT PRACTICES REF NO:
CD/PMP/05/2026
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), State’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion of 30% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement
within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognised Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in Public Management / Public
Administration / Human Resource Management / Industrial Psychology. A
Nyukela certificate for entry into the Senior Management Service (SMS)
60
obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) should be submitted
prior to appointment. 5 years’ experience at the senior managerial level in
Human Resource Management or Corporate Services. Thorough
understanding and knowledge of the legislative framework governing human
resources. Skills: Planning and organizing. Strategic capability and leadership.
Communication. Honesty and integrity. Problem solving and analysis. Team
leadership. Client orientation and customer focus. Knowledge management.
Financial management. Programme & project management. Change
management. Organizational development. Service delivery innovation.
People management and empowerment. Microsoft Office Suite. A Valid driver’s
license (with exception of disabled applicants).
DUTIES : Ensure the provision of efficient Human Resource Management, Human
Resource Development, Organisational Development and Transformation
services to the clients of the organisation. Ensure the provision of a safe,
secure and conducive work environment. Ensure the provision of internal and
external communication services. Lead and direct the utilization of the
resources allocated to the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Saki Tel No: (012) 352 1196
OTHER POST
POST 20/54 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT AND
SELECTION: REF NO SHRP: R&S/06/2026
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate
(NQF Level 4). A National Diploma (NQF level 6) in Human Resource
Management / Human Resource Development / Labour Relations
Management / Organisational Development. 3-4 years’ experience as a
Personnel Officer/Principal Personnel Officer or Human Resource Practitioner
in the area of Recruitment and Selection, Human Resource Planning, Job
Evaluation, Employment Equity and Conditions of Service. Introduction to
PERSAL Certificate/PERSAL Administration Certificate/Job Evaluation Analyst
Certificate. Knowledge of relevant HR prescripts including skills development
Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment and others. Writing
and verbal communications skills. Policy Development Skills. Presentations
skills. Interpersonal skills. Project management skills. Must have a valid driver’s
licence with exception of people with disabilities.
DUTIES : Facilitate Recruitment and Selection. Facilitate and provide support to the
Employment Equity Consultative Forum. Facilitate Human Resource Planning.
Administer and process Conditions of Service and Employee Benefits.
Facilitate the Job Evaluation process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Mothoagae Tel No: (012) 352 1051
61
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria. For Attention: Ms NP
Mudau
Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or Hand
Deliver at Ground floor, Customs House, Lower Heerengracht Street, Cape
Town. For Attention: Ms. C Rossouw
Mmabatho Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X120, Mmabatho
2735, or hand deliver: 810 Corner Albert Luthuli Drive and Maisantwa Street.
Unit 3, Mmabatho. For Attention: Mr. T. Oagile.
Gqeberha Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works, Private Bag X3913, North End, Port Elizabeth,
6056. Hand delivery: Room 430, Corner. Hancock & Robert Street, North End,
Port Elizabeth, 6056. For Attention: Ms S Mafanya/ Ms. P Buwa.
Polokwane Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager,
Department of Public Works Private Bag X9469, Polokwane, 0700 or Hand
deliver at 78 Hans van Rensburg Street, Old Mutual Building, 1st Floor,
Polokwane. For Attention: Mr. NJ Khotsa
CLOSING DATE : 03 July 2026 at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
62
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https: www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-entry
programme/. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Note: For
emailed applications, please submit a single PDF document or one attachment
per application to the email address designated on the specific position. Kindly
note that the emailed applications and attachments should not exceed 15MB.
It remains the candidate’s responsibility to ensure that their application is
successfully submitted using the required single pdf document.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/55 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO: 2026/240
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management service)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Social Sciences/ Auditing/ Public Administration/ Statistics or
related field. Relevant years’ experience should be at the Junior Management
level (ASD equivalent Level) related to research, monitoring and evaluation
and data analysis. Knowledge: Knowledge on Monitoring and evaluation
processes; Research methodologies; Knowledge on governmental guidelines;
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA); Policy Framework for the
Government-wide Monitoring and Evaluation System; South African Statistical
Quality Assessment Framework; National Evaluation Policy Framework
(NEPF); Policy imperatives; Strategic Planning Guidelines; Administration of
Service Level agreements; Procurement processes. Skills: Computer literacy;
Effective communication (verbal and written); Planning and organisation;
Relationship management; Programme and project management;
Interpersonal and diplomacy skills; Analytical thinking; Problem solving skills;
Decision making skills; Motivational skills; Negotiation skills; Conflict
management; Presentation skills. Personal Attributes: Tenacity; Dedication;
Honesty; Exceptional level of integrity; Innovation; Adaptability; Creative;
Solution orientated – ability to design ideas without direction; Ability to work
under stressful situations; Ability to communicate at all levels; People
orientated; Hard-working; Highly motivated.
DUTIES : Manage the development the monitoring policies and tools: Conduct research
and keep updated on the latest trends. Develop and review monitoring policies.
Develop and review monitoring reporting templates. Ensure that reporting
systems have structured monitoring and evaluation reporting framework,
outlining indicators and tools. Contribute towards the continual review and
improvement of monitoring systems and framework. Oversee the
implementation of the departmental monitoring and reporting tools: Support
data monitoring and reporting initiatives within the department. Manage the
implementation of monitoring and evaluation system. Facilitate training of
departmental business units and users. Manage the implementation of
recommendations from monitoring reports. Manage the administration of
sector coordination and management on performance information through
NAPROV. Manage reporting training of performance management to the and
convention of bilateral meetings with departmental business units and users.
Monitor implementation of service standards and SDIPs. Monitor the
implementation of EXCO and Cabinet Decisions. Train and engage Provinces
through National and Provincial Planning Monitoring and Evaluation Forum.
Ensure that all branches submit quarterly performance reports. Ensure that
Provinces submit the Standardised Sector Indicators. Ensure provision of
support services within Policy Research, Strategy, M & E branch: Participate
in the unit’s management forums and ad hoc committees as per senior
management directive. Facilitate and present regular progress reports in line
63
with the structured reporting system – monthly quarterly/ mid-year and end-
year reporting. Facilitate workshops and other related engagements with
business units in relation to monitoring and evaluation of the reporting system.
Provide support in Monitoring & Evaluation of budgetary alignment to
program/project development: Analysis of TMC and other relevant reports.
Verification of information against data sources [BAS, WCS, PMIS etc].
Alignment of findings to strategic and operational plans. Report quarterly, bi-
annually and annually. Review and report on the budgetary finances of the unit.
Manage the Directorate: Establish and maintain appropriate internal controls
and reporting systems to meet performance expectations; Develop and
manage the operational plan of the Directorate and report on progress as
required; Manage performance and development of employees; Establish,
implement and maintain efficient and effective communication arrangements;
Compile and submit all required administrative reports; Quality control of work
delivered by employees; Monitor the budget and expenditures for the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : TK Sekgala Tel No: (012) 406 1301/
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-51@dpw.gov.za
POST 20/56 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: USER DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2026/241
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three year-tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Public Administration, Management, Public Relations and
Communication, Real Estate Management or Social Science. Relevant years
of experience within stakeholder engagement, coordination in any field of
property and a valid driver’s license. The ideal candidate should have planning
skills, programme management, and client relations skills. An understanding of
different facets of the built environment and property industry is essential.
Knowledge: Works Control System (WCS); Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA); Treasury Regulations; knowledge of the built environment; project and
programme management; construction regulations; occupational health and
safety; Emerging Contractor Development Programme; sound budgeting;
procurement processes and Government Immovable Asset Management Act
(GIAMA). Skills: Advanced numeracy; organizing; interpersonal skills;
diplomacy; ability to follow a pro-active and creative problem; solving approach;
communication; advanced computer literacy. Personal Attributes: Innovative;
creative; trustworthy; hardworking; self-motivated; ability to work under
pressure; analytical thinking; facilitation; research. Willingness to adapt work
schedule in accordance with office requirements. Committed to designated
tasks.
DUTIES : Apply applicable policies, methods, best practices and standards as well as
ensure compliance with relevant user demand management regulations.
Facilitate the delivery of the accommodation services for Client Departments.
Co-ordinate and monitor the budget and expenditure levels of clients
Department. Supervise employees to ensure an effective service delivery. The
incumbent will be responsible for Key Account Management as a contact point
between the National Department of Public Works & Infrastructure and
assigned client departments. Ensure monitoring and implementation of
programmes for leased accommodation, capital works and planned
maintenance services. Render assistance to assigned client departments in
appropriately formulating accommodation requirements, asset plans and
budget. Assist with the consolidation and compilation of accommodation
related information in reporting to the client. Ensure efficient turnaround times
on strategic initiatives and programme related reports. Facilitate, chair and
minute regular forum meetings with client departments. Advice, interact with
and source information from client departments and departmental service
providers. Liaise with internal stakeholders in assisting external stakeholders
with registered queries. Assist with the implementation and management of
Service Level Agreements for client departments. Assist in the preparation of
reports to top management and all relevant stakeholders. Give inputs towards
the compilation and implementation of annual business plans for the
Directorate. Conduct site visits to ensure that state owned properties are
utilized efficiently and optimally. This post will require official travelling, working
64
overtime and the incumbent must be willing and be able to travel as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B Ntoni Tel No: (021) 402 2020
APPLICATIONS : For Cape town regional office: Email to: RecruitCPT26-61@dpw.gov.za
POST 20/57 : SENIOR FORENSIC INVESTIGATOR: [GOVERNANCE, RISK AND
COMPLIANCE BRANCH] REF NO: 2026/242
Key Purpose Statement: To assist with the planning, executing and reporting
on assigned forensic investigations in a professional manner thereby ensuring
cost effective forensic investigations on behalf of the Department of Public
Works.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma/Degree in Auditing, Financial Management, Law or Criminology.
Possession of Certificate in Forensic and Investigative Auditing will be an
added advantage. Good interpersonal, organisational and communication
skills are also required. Valid Driver’s licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following duties in the
office of the Director-Fraud Awareness and Investigations: To plan and
implement forensic investigations, gather comprehensive and complete
evidence of alleged serious mismanagement of resources or unprofessional
conduct, and develop summary of findings report on investigations completed
with clear findings, conclusions and recommendations
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Mabotja Tel No: (012) 406 1328
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-52@dpw.gov.za
POST 20/58 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PROPERTY DISPOSALS REF NO:
2026/243
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6) / National diploma
in Real Estate Management, Property Law or related field. Relevant working
experience. Knowledge of PFMA, Financial administration, Procurement
directives and procedures, Reporting procedures, GIAMA, DISPOSAL ACT,
BBBEE, Treasury Regulations, The PIE Act and the Squatter Acts. Skills:
Report writing, Accounts and numeric skills, Analytical thinking, Interpersonal
skills, Problem solving, Organising and planning skills. A valid driver’s license,
willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Administer the disposal process of redundant and superfluous residential
properties. Conduct research to obtain information for the disposal of property
and compile reports, provide admin support in redressing of the property
ownership problem through Land Reform, Liaise with Regional Land claims
commission to check for claims against property to be disposed. Support the
monitoring and evaluation of approved projects in the regional offices.
Administer financial processes on the disposal of fixed assets, Facilitate the
valuation of properties to be disposed, Compile budget review report on
property disposal, Administrate the recovery of state funds, Prepare and
present quarterly projections to the Supply Chain Management. Supervise
employees to ensure an effective service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Murundwa Tel No: (021) 402 2056
APPLICATIONS : For Cape town regional office: Email to: RecruitCPT26-62@dpw.gov.za
POST 20/59 : EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS PRACTITIONER (HRM) REF NO:
2026/244
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
diploma/ Degree in Social Science or Behavioural related qualification.
Registration with professional bodies such as SACSSP and HPCSA. Relevant
years of experience in the field. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance
with professional requirements Knowledge of Employee health and wellness
practices, knowledge and understanding of HIV as a developmental issue,
specialized knowledge of counselling, people management and
65
empowerment, client orientation and customer focus, Structure and functioning
of the Department and the sector. Language proficiency, effective
communication, presentation skills, general management and organizational
skills, interpretation of policies, ability to undertake research/gather
information, ability to work independently. A valid driver’s license and
willingness to travel is essential.
DUTIES : HIV/AIDS and TB management: Mainstream HIV/AIDS and TB into the core
functions of the department; Provide education, awareness and prevention
programmes. Plan and conduct regular Health screenings. Distribution of
wellness information material and articles. Health and Productivity
Management Services: Coordinate Disease Management & Chronic illnesses
awareness and education sessions, workshops; Support the department with
incapacity cases. Organize Mental Health information sessions and distribution
of articles on a regular basis. Liaise and make referrals to Mental Health
institutions when required. Occupational Health and Safety Management:
create awareness on occupational safety behaviour and provide information
related to Injury on duty. Wellness management: Promote work life balance for
employees. Provide support to Individuals through Wellness intervention
(Psychosocial). Provide counselling to individual employees and their
immediate family members. Conduct group counselling sessions for e.g.
debriefing or trauma. Provide management with feedback through progress
reports on referred cases while maintaining confidentiality. Support and advice
managers on handling employees experiencing wellness related challenges.
Promote individual Physical Wellness by encouraging sports activities. Plan
and conduct retirement sessions. Facilitate and assist in the Medical Health
Surveillance of employees placed in a hazardous environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Rossouw Tel No: (021) 402 2014
APPLICATIONS : For Cape town regional office: Email to: RecruitCPT26-63@dpw.gov.za
POST 20/60 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: ACCOUNTS PAYABLE REF NO: 2026/245
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06)/ National Diploma
in Financial Management or Cost and Management Accounting. Appropriate
experience in financial accounting. Knowledge of Financial Systems, Financial
Prescripts (GAAP and GRAP standards) and international standards. Working
knowledge of Government financial systems (BAS, PERSAL, LOGIS).
Knowledge and understanding of the PFMA, Treasury Regulations. Good
communication skills, both verbal and written. Ability to work under pressure
and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Verification and processing of LOGIS payments. Verification and processing of
sundry payments on BAS System. Ensure the safekeeping of payment
vouchers. Manage tracking of invoices on Reapatala invoice tracking system.
Ensure compliance to the Public Finance and Management Act and General
Accounting Practices. Maintain a good working relationship with internal and
external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Ramphekwa at (064) 753 7740
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-53@dpw.gov.za
POST 20/61 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: DISPOSALS: REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT
SERVICES REF NO: 2026/246
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Property Management, Real Estate, Property Law, Financial
Management or Project Management. Appropriate experience in Real Estate,
Property Disposal or Immovable Asset Management. Knowledge of Public
Financial Management Act, GIAMA, Disposal Act 48 of 1961 and all other
relevant legislations, understanding of the built Environment. Computer
literacy. Knowledge and understanding of government procurement processes,
contractual policies and procedures. Understanding of the property market and
its trends. Understanding of the derivatives of forms of disposal of property
(expropriation, common law, prescriptions, etc.) negotiation skills. A valid
driver’s license is compulsory. Willingness to travel extensively.
66
DUTIES : Administer the disposal of immovable property that is superfluous to the state.
Provide admin support in redressing of the property ownership problem
through Land Reform. Liaise with Regional Land Claims Commission to check
for claims against the property to be disposed of. Prepare submission to obtain
Concurrence from the Minister of Rural Development and Land Reform.
Prepare and present PSLDVC applications to support disposal of state
properties. Administer financial processes on the disposal of fixed assets.
Render administration support to the sub-directorate. Assist with the letting out
of the state redundant properties and respond to general enquiries to purchase
state properties, conduct site verification, present to committee and prepare for
adjudication, signing of leases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Gqomo Tel No: (041) 408 2078
APPLICATIONS : For Gqeberha Regional Office: Email to: RecruitPE26-25@dpw.gov.za
POST 20/62 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGEMENT
REF NO: 2026/247
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma) in Public/ Project Administration or equivalent qualification. Relevant
years’ experience in Office Administration/ Project Administration field.
Knowledge of WCS. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Collect/ receive invoices from Registry Services; Capture invoice on Re-a-
Patala system; Identify discrepancies related to payment certificates. Update
payments on WCS; submit the invoice to the relevant stakeholders. Keep the
Project Manager(s) abreast with the budget adjustments as Required; Liaise
with the consultants regarding the project; attend, Respond and redirect
enquiries related to the project; handle queries from Consultants and
Contractors; Disseminate status reports on the Development of the project;
Maintain and order stationary supplies; Administer office correspondence,
documents and reports; Process Documents related to claims and payments
relevant to the office; Update and maintain the WCS and Re-a-patala
database; Liaise with the stakeholders relevant to the office and attend audit
queries; Monitor the communication and administer the flow of information and
documents in the office; Maintain the filing and records for projects documents
and the unit where required; Render secretariat and logistical support service
to the Committees and internal external meetings; Arrange meetings and
workshops for the unit with internal and external stakeholders; Prepare and
type documents presentations and reports; Draft agenda and record minutes/
decisions Communicate to relevant role-players and follow-up on progress
made; Compile submissions and reports; Ensure that travel arrangements are
well-coordinated and complete and submit S & T forms.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S. Jikeka Tel No: (041) 408 2074
APPLICATIONS : For Gqeberha Regional Office: Email to: RecruitPE26-26@dpw.gov.za
NOTE : Ring-Fenced for women.
POST 20/63 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGEMENT
REF NO: 2026/248
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma) in Public/ Project Administration or equivalent qualification. Relevant
years of experience in Office Administration/ Project Administration field.
Knowledge of WCS. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Collect/ receive invoices from Registry Services; Capture invoice on Re-a-
Patala system; Identify discrepancies related to payment certificates. Update
payments on WCS; submit the invoice to the relevant stakeholders. Keep the
Project Manager(s) abreast with the budget adjustments as Required; Liaise
with the consultants regarding the project; attend, Respond and redirect
enquiries related to the project; handle queries from Consultants and
Contractors; Disseminate status reports on the Development of the project;
Maintain and order stationary supplies; Administer office correspondence,
documents and reports; Process Documents related to claims and payments
relevant to the office; Update and maintain the WCS and Re-a-patala
database; Liaise with the stakeholders relevant to the office and attend audit
67
queries; Monitor the communication and administer the flow of information and
documents in the office; Maintain the filing and records for projects documents
and the unit where required; Render secretariat and logistical support service
to the Committees and internal external meetings; Arrange meetings and
workshops for the unit with internal and external stakeholders; Prepare and
type documents presentations and reports; Draft agenda and record minutes/
decisions Communicate to relevant role-players and follow-up on progress
made; Compile submissions and reports; Ensure that travel arrangements are
well-coordinated and complete and submit S & T forms.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S. Jikeka Tel No: (041) 408 2074
APPLICATIONS : For Gqeberha Regional Office: Email to: RecruitPE26-27@dpw.gov.za
POST 20/64 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: HELPDESK &COMPLAINTS (UDM) REF NO:
2026/249
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Polokwane Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum of Senior Certificate/ Grade 12 or equivalent. No previous
experience is required. Computer literacy including Microsoft Office (word,
excel, power point). Good verbal and communication skills. Record keeping
skills, good interpersonal skills and telephone etiquette. Office administrative
and organizational skills. ability to work under pressure, hardworking and a
team player.
DUTIES : Attend and follow-up on all client complaints and queries. Maintain an active
query register for the unit. Address enquiries or refer them to the necessary
manager. Ensure resolutions of meetings are addressed within established
timeframes. Administer the Archibus System as and when required. Render
general clerical support services: Update and maintain electronic and physical
records for procurement instructions. Furnish information for reports to internal
and external stakeholders. Record, organise, store, capture, update and
retrieve correspondence and data. Distribute documents/packages to various
stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filing system for the
component. Type basic letters and/or other correspondence when required.
Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing register of the component.
Provide supply chain clerical support services within the component: Liaise
with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and
services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement forms for the purchasing of
standard office items. Stock control of office stationery. Check correctness of
subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval.
Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for the component. Arrange
travelling and accommodation. Maintain a leave register for the component.
Provide a meeting management service to the sub-directorate: Plan the diary
for the sub-directorate. Book a meeting venue. Arrange meetings and confirm
attendance with stakeholders. Take minutes and distribute to meeting
attendees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T.E. Maifo Tel No: (015) 293 8035
APPLICATIONS : For Polokwane Regional Office: Email to: RecruitPLK26-11@dpw.gov.za
POST 20/65 : ACCOUNTING CLERK (BATCH CONTROLLER) REF NO: 2026/250
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Regional Office
REQUIEREMENTS : A minimum National Senior Certificate/ Grade 12/ equivalent qualification. Valid
Driver’s license will serve as added advantage. Knowledge of a financial
environment will be advantages. Knowledge of relevant legislation, regulations
and policies. Sound interpersonal and communication skills, computer literate,
multi-tasked skills, self-driven, result orientated, motivated, meet deadlines and
acceptance of responsibility.
DUTIES : Reporting to the State Accountant the incumbent of this position will take
responsibility for: The main responsibility of this post relates to the safekeeping
and management of documents (Batch Control) including the monitoring and
controlling of the adherence to sound accounting and NPDW practices,
prescribed policies and regulations in all transactions. Monitor and control all
documents relating to the different transversal systems. Ensure correct
allocation of expenditure and revenue. Draw financial and other BAS reports in
support of the activities of the unit. It could be expected of the incumbent to
assist in the budget formulation, compiling of a cash flow budget as well as the
68
monthly reporting. As well as performing duties related to the cashier’s
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Zito Tel No: (041) 408 2159
APPLICATIONS : For Gqeberha Regional Office: Email to: RecruitPE26-28@dpw.gov.za
POST 20/66 : SUPERVISOR: CLEANING SERVICES REF NO:2026/251 (X3 POSTS)
Re-advertisement- People who previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Mmabatho Regional Office
Brits Magistrate Court (X1 Post)
Klerksdorp Magistrate Court (X1 Post)
Itsoseng Magistrate Court (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 10/ ABET level 4. Knowledge of Cleaning practices. Office
Administration Operating cleaning equipment. Occupational health and safety.
Personnel practices. Labour Relations Act.
DUTIES : Manage and control equipment and materials: identify resource requirements
and special operational needs. monitor the condition and availability of
equipment. Ensure replacement or repair of faulty/outdated equipment.
Supervise the provisioning of housekeeping, cleaning, safeguarding &
maintenance services: Ensure cleanliness, tidiness, hygiene and safety of all
areas allocated for cleaning. Perform administration functions associated to
housekeeping & cleaning services. Identify hazards in the buildings/offices
related to fire and electricity. Perform physical inspection of cleaned areas-:
Ensure the removal of refuse in the offices and around the buildings. Ensure
the inspection of logistics and physical environment to ensure clean maintained
environment adherence to OHS. Perform general supervision and support the
administration of the Section: Identify staff requirements in terms of training
and development. Review employees’ performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B Mabale Tel No: (018) 386 5357
APPLICATIONS : For Mmabatho regional office: Email to: RecruitMBT26-18@dpw.gov.za
POST 20/67 : CLEANER: CLEANING SERVICES REF NO: 2026/252 (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Mmabatho Regional Office
Koster Magistrate Court (X1 Post)
Klerksdorp Magistrate Court (X2 Posts)
Zeerust Magistrate Court (X1 Post)
Rusternburg Magistrate Court (X1 Post)
Itsoseng Magistrate Court (X1 Post)
Potchefstroom Magistrate Court (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Grade 09 /ABET level 4 or equivalent qualifications. No experience
required. Good interpersonal skills, basic communication and literacy. Ability to
perform cleaning routine tasks. Knowledge on usage of cleaning materials and
equipment.
DUTIES : Effective cleaning of buildings, empty dustbins, Dust and polish furniture, clean
windows and walls, Wash floors and vacuum carpets. Cleaning court offices
and cells. Deep cleaning of toilets, Refill toilets dispensers with toilet papers
and hands washing soap. Cleaning kitchen utensils. Report defects
encountered during cleaning, Alert working staff of slippery floors. Offloading
delivered materials and arranging the storeroom accordingly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B Mabale Tel No: (018) 386 5357
APPLICATIONS : For Mmabatho regional office: Email to: RecruitMBT26-19@dpw.gov.za
POST 20/68 : CLEANER: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2026/253 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Groblersdal Magistrate Court (X1 Post)
Thabazimbi Magistrate Court (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum Grade 09/ABET level 4 or equivalent qualifications. No experience
required. Good interpersonal skills, basic communication and literacy. Ability to
perform routine cleaning tasks. Ability to work physically for long hours.
Exposure to cleaning chemicals and hazardous working conditions. Ability to
handle cleaning equipment and conduct stock count.
DUTIES : The effective cleaning of buildings-: Empty dustbins, Dust and polish wood
tables and other wooden furniture, Refill water bottles with fresh water, Clean
69
windows and walls, Wash floors and vacuum carpets. The effective cleaning of
toilets: Deep cleaning of toilets, Refill toilets dispensers with toilet papers and
hands washing soap, Wash toilet floors. The effective cleaning of kitchens-
Wash kitchen floors, Cleaning of kitchen utensils, Assist with tea and coffee
during forums and other meetings. The rendering of assistance regarding the
general safety of buildings- report defects encountered during cleaning, Alert
working staff of slippery floors and stairs, Alert supervisor of failed light bulbs
and locks not working.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.P. Morudu Tel No: (015) 291 8035
APPLICATIONS : For Polokwane Regional Office: Email to: RecruitPLK26-12@dpw.gov.za
70
ANNEXURE O
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the
filling of these posts and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity
will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
Director-General, Department of Social Development, Private Bag X901,
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: HSRC Building, 134 Pretorius Street In the
event of hand delivery of applications, applicants must sign an application
register book as proof of submission. Applicants may also email their
applications to the following email addresses:
For Research Policy Manager – e-recruit.RPM@dsd.gov.za
Deputy Director: Systems Development – e-recruit.DDSD@dsd.gov.za
Project Coordinator: Sector Infrastructure – e-recruit.PCSI@dsd.gov.za
Branch Coordinator – e-recruit.BC@dsd.gov.za
Social Work Policy Developer Grade 1 – e-recruit.SWPDCP@dsd.gov.za
Assistant Director: HIV and AIDS Capacity Building – e-
recruit.ADHACB@dsd.gov.za
Assistant Director: Systems Development – e-recruit.ADSD@dsd.gov.za
Project Administrator – e-recruit.PAPMO@dsd.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr S Boshielo
CLOSING DATE : 30 June 2026
NOTE : Curriculum vitae with a detailed description of duties and the names of two
referees must accompany your signed application for employment (Z83). If
applying for more than one position, applicants must submit separate
applications for each position. Shortlisted candidates for a post will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications and identity documents on the date
of the interview. Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021, a new
application for employment (Z83) form is effective and must be completed in
full, failure to use the new Z83 will result in disqualification. The new form can
be downloaded online at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. Applicants applying for
SMS posts are required to successfully complete the Certificate for entry into
the SMS (submitted prior to appointment) and full details can be sourced by
following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Applicants are expected to pay for the course and may enroll for
it at a cost of R400.00. The duration of the course is 120 hours. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
will be a practical exercise to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. Following the interview and technical exercise,
the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The successful
candidate will sign an annual performance agreement, complete a financial
discloser form and will also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Candidates nominated for posts on salary levels 2 - 12 may be subjected to a
competency assessment during the selection process. If the candidate is
applying for an OSD post, certificates of service must be submitted on the date
of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to
submit the requested documents will result in your application not being
considered. Personnel suitability checks will be conducted on shortlisted
candidates, and the appointment is subject to positive outcomes of the checks.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. The selection of
candidates will be done with due regard to the relevant aspects of the selection
process as set out in the Public Service Amendment Regulations, 2023,
Regulation 67. Applications received after the closing date will not be taken into
consideration. If you have not been contacted within three months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Candidates requiring additional information regarding the
advertised post may direct their enquiries to the person as indicated above.
Internal applicants must submit and register their employment applications at
the register book in the DSD reception area for the attention of Mr R Khobatha.
71
DSD reserves the right to cancel the filling/ not to fill a vacancy that was
advertised during any stage of the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/69 : RESEARCH PROJECT MANAGER REF NO: O1/A/2026
Directorate: Population Research and Information
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Social Science
including Population Studies and Demography Plus 3-5 years’ experience at a
junior management level. A Postgraduate qualification in Social Science will be
an added advantage. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service
Regulations and Public Service Act. Knowledge and understanding of the
Constitution of South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of the Public
Service Statutory Framework. Knowledge and understanding of the Population
Policy White Paper. Knowledge and understanding of the Programme of Action
of the International Conference on Population Development. Knowledge and
understanding of the POPIA. Knowledge and understanding of ethical
frameworks within government. Knowledge and understanding of the Public
Finance Management Act programmes. Knowledge and understanding of
social development sector policies. Knowledge and understanding of research
methodology. Knowledge and understanding of the public management and
administration principles. Knowledge and understanding of the National
Development Plan including Medium Term Development Plan. Knowledge and
understanding of the management strategic plans and budgeting. Knowledge
and understanding of the financial prescripts of the public service, costing
methodologies and performance management. Competencies needed:
Strategic capability and leadership skills. Quantitative and qualitative data
collection, analysis and interpretation skills. Proposal and research report
writing skills. Programme and project management skills. Financial
management skills. Policy Analysis and development skills. Information and
knowledge management skills. Communication skills. Problem-solving and
change management skills. People management and empowerment skills.
Stakeholder management skills. Computer literacy, including data analysis
software skills. Planning and coordination skills. Presentation and facilitation
skills. Risk management skills. Monitoring and evaluation skills. Quality
management skills. Attributes: Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work
under pressure. Innovative and creative. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Adaptability. Emotional intelligence. Independent thinker. Cost
consciousness. Honesty and integrity. Time Management. Attention to details.
Ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Manage the design, development and implementation of research frameworks
and methodologies aligned to Population policy priorities and departmental
strategic objectives. Manage the implementation of capacity development on
population and social development research. Coordinate stakeholder
engagement and partnerships on matters of technical support and
implementation of programmes. Manage and report on the performance of the
sub-directorate in line with the set of regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Golden Tel No: (012) 312-7831
POST 20/70 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT REF NO: O1/B/2026
Directorate: Systems Development
SALARY : R932 292 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Business Information
Systems/ Information Technology in Software Development and Systems
Development / Computer Sciences Plus 3-5 years’ experience at a junior
management level. Knowledge and understanding of Digital Transformation
Strategy of the Public Services. Knowledge and understanding of Public
Service Act and Regulation. Knowledge and understanding of the relevant
72
Public Service Regulatory Frameworks such as MISS, SDLC, MIOS, National
Archives and Records Service Act, PAJA, PAIA and ECT. Knowledge and
understanding of the DPSA Corporate Governance for ICT Policy Framework.
Knowledge and understanding of Information and Communication Technology
frameworks. Knowledge and understanding of business systems. Knowledge
and understanding of database and development standards. Knowledge and
understanding of business process principles, practices, techniques and tools.
Knowledge and understanding of business concepts and requirements.
Knowledge and understanding of database development. Knowledge and
understanding of Information security principles and practices. Knowledge and
understanding of Network management. Knowledge and understanding of IT
Infrastructure Principles. Knowledge and understanding of vendor
management and contract negotiation. Knowledge and understanding of
system development methodology and project management. Knowledge and
understanding of information technology business systems. Knowledge and
understanding of ASP.net, VB.net, SQL, XML, HTML, JavaScript.
Competencies needed: Database development skills. Systems development
skills. Communication skills. Policy analysis and development skills. People
management. Project management skills. Problem-solving skills. Computer
literacy skills. Facilitation and presentation skills. Stakeholder and client liaison
skills. Monitoring skills. Report writing skills. Attributes: Good interpersonal
relations. Ability to work under pressure. Innovative and creative. Ability to
work in a team and independently. Adaptability. Emotional intelligence.
Independent thinker. Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity.
Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Develop, review and implement systems database and development plans,
policies and strategies to align with business needs, policies, legislative
requirements, norms and standards. Develop databases, computerized
systems, software applications and integrations to meet specific information
systems requirements. Maintain and support all databases, computerized
systems, software applications to ensure their availability, reliability, and
security. Monitor the implementation and utilization of systems and processes
in line with relevant standards, data security policies, and regulatory
requirements, and compile performance reports. Manage, and report on
human resources, and performance in line with the set regulations and
prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Nkhethoa Tel No: (012) 312-7108
POST 20/71 : PROJECT COORDINATOR SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO:
O1/C/2026
Chief Directorate: HIV Care, Prevention and Sector Infrastructure
SALARY : R932 292 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Infrastructure
Management/ Environmental Sciences/ Built Management/ Environmental
Studies Plus 2-3 years’ experience at a junior management level. Knowledge
and understanding of Public Service Act and Regulation. Knowledge and
understanding of Public infrastructure project management frameworks
(GIAMA, Infrastructure Delivery Management Systems (IDMS). Knowledge of
Infrastructure Reporting Mode (IRM). Knowledge and understanding of
Treasury Regulations, PFMA and SCM prescripts. Knowledge and
understanding of Social Development Sector. Knowledge and understanding
of Municipality Infrastructure Bylaws. Knowledge and understanding of Spatial
Planning and Land Usage Management Act. Knowledge and understanding of
User Asset Management Guidelines and Frameworks. Knowledge and
understanding of White Paper on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
Competencies needed: Project and programme management skills. Policy
development and analysis skills. Financial administrations and reporting skills.
Communication skills (written and verbal). Stakeholder management and
intergovernmental coordination skills. Research, analytical and report writing
skills. Computer literacy (MS Office, Project management software, IRM).
People management skills. Problem-solving skills. Planning and organizing
skills. Facilitation and presentation skills. Attributes: Good interpersonal
relations. Innovative and creative. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work
73
in a team and independently. Adaptability. Emotional intelligence. Independent
thinker. Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity. Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Facilitate and coordinate sector-wide infrastructure planning processes.
Develop and review Infrastructure Policy and Guidelines. Coordinate the
implementation of the National Infrastructure Projects. Monitor compliance of
Social Development Infrastructure facilities and centres with applicable
infrastructure norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Skosana Tel No: (012) 312-7904
POST 20/72 : BRANCH COORDINATOR REF NO: O1/D/2026
Branch: Comprehensive Social Security
SALARY : R932 292 per annum. This inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic
salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Office Administration/
Public Administration/ Business Management or Financial Management.
Knowledge and understanding of the relevant Public Service Act and Public
Service Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of relevant PFMA and
Treasury Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of administrative
process. Knowledge and understanding of records management. Knowledge
and understanding of PAIA and POPIA. Basic knowledge of Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Knowledge and understanding of Batho
Pele principles. Competencies needed: Communication (verbal and written)
skills. Policy analysis and development skills. Planning and organising skills.
People management skills. Project coordination skills. Problem solving skills.
Computer literacy. Facilitation and presentation skills. Stakeholder and client
liaison skills. Monitoring skills. Report writing skills. Financial management
skills. Attributes: Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure.
Innovative and creative. Ability to work in a team and independently.
Adaptability. Diplomacy. Independent thinker. Emotional intelligence. Cost
consciousness. Honesty and integrity. Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of strategic and executive administrative support
services to the branch. Coordinate the development and analyses of branch
APPs, Operational, Strategic and Risk management plans. Manage and
monitor the utilisation of the branch budget in line with the set regulations and
prescripts. Coordinate key branch projects, stakeholder and intersectoral
coordination. Manage and report on the human resources, and performance in
line with the set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Sibeko Tel No: (012) 741-6803
POST 20/73 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HIV AND AIDS CAPACITY BUILDING REF NO:
O1/F/2026
Directorate: HIV/AIDS Care and Support
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Social
Sciences/ Development Studies/ Social Work Plus 2-3 years’ experience in HIV
and AIDS field, and experience in capacity building, training and development.
Knowledge and understanding of Social Development Sector. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Service, departmental policies, procedures and
regulations. Knowledge and understanding of PFMA and Treasury
Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of relevant legislations and
policies in the HIV and AIDS field and Skills Development Act. Knowledge and
understanding of the DSD HIV and AIDS Comprehensive Strategy. Knowledge
and understanding of legislations, policies and strategies pertaining to HIV.
Knowledge and understanding of guidelines and frameworks for Psychosocial
Support in context of HIV. Knowledge and understanding of POPIA, PAIA and
PAJA. Knowledge in SAQA, QCTO and SETA processes. Competencies
needed: Computer literacy skills. Analytical Skills. Policy analysis and
development skills. Project management skills. Financial management skills.
Communication (written and verbal) skills. Problem-solving skills. Client
orientation and customer focus skills. Presentation and facilitation skills. Report
writing. Planning and organising skills. Monitoring and evaluation skills.
Programme management skills. Attributes: Analytical thinker. Ability to work
74
under pressure. Ability to work in a team and independently. Friendly and
trustworthy. Systematic and logical. Adaptable. Disciplined. Diplomacy.
Assertive and persuasive. Emotional intelligence.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and monitor HIV and AIDS policies, procedures and
programmes in line with the national legislation, norms and standards.
Coordinate HIV/AIDS capacity building programmes. Facilitate accreditation of
capacity building programmes developed by the Directorate, with relevant
bodies such as the South African Council for Social Service Professionals.
Coordinate and manage capacity building stakeholders for HIV&AIDS in the
country. Develop a database of all beneficiaries or participants capacitated on
programmes developed by the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr L Nziyane Tel No: (012) 312-7110/ 7300
POST 20/74 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SYSTEM ANALYST REF NO: O1/G/2026
Directorate: Systems Development
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA in
Business Information/ Information Technology in Software Development and
Systems Development/ Computer Sciences Plus 2-3 years’ experience at
supervisory level. Knowledge and understanding Public Service Act and
Regulation. Knowledge and understanding of Digital Transformation Strategy
of the Public Services. Knowledge and understanding of the relevant Public
Service regulatory frameworks such as MISS, SDLC, MIOS, National Archives
and Records Service Act, PAJA, PAIA and ECT. Knowledge and understanding
of Information and Communication Technology frameworks. Knowledge and
understanding of DPSA Corporate Governance ICT policy Framework.
Knowledge and understanding of business systems. Knowledge and
understanding of database and development standards. Knowledge and
understanding business process principles, practices, techniques and tools.
Knowledge and understanding of business concepts and requirements.
Knowledge and understanding of database development. Knowledge and
understanding of Information security principles and practices. Knowledge and
understanding of Network Management. Knowledge and understanding of IT
Infrastructure Principles. Knowledge and understanding of system
development methodology and project management. Knowledge and
understanding of information technology business systems. Knowledge and
understanding of ASP.net SQL, XML, HTML, JavaScript. Knowledge and
understanding of Business Processes principles, practices, techniques and
tools. Competencies needed: Computer literacy skills. Analytical Skills. Policy
analysis and development skills. Project management skills. Financial
management skills. Communication (written and verbal) skills. Problem-solving
skills. Client orientation and customer focus skills. Presentation and facilitation
skills. Report writing. Planning and organising skills. Monitoring and evaluation
skills. Programme management skills. Attributes: Analytical thinker. Ability to
work under pressure. Ability to work in a team and independently. Friendly and
trustworthy. Systematic and logical. Adaptable. Disciplined. Diplomacy.
Assertive and persuasive. Emotional intelligence.
DUTIES : Detail system requirements and develop databases, computerised systems,
software applications and integrations to meet specific information systems
requirements. Design and implement technical solutions. Facilitate and
manage technical feasibility and integration with existing systems. Manage,
and report on the human resources, and performance in line with the set
regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Chele Tel No: (012) 312-7459
POST 20/75 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY DEVELOPER GRADE 1: CHILD PROTECTION
REF NO: O1/E/2026
Directorate: Child Protection
SALARY : R471 330 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work or equivalent
qualification. Registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions (SACSSP) as a Social Worker, plus eight (8) years’ appropriate
experience in social work after registration as a Social Worker with the
75
SACSSP. Knowledge of childcare and protection legislation, child protection
policies, vulnerable children, and the provision of prevention and early
intervention services. Willingness to travel. Competencies needed:
Programme development, Project management skills. Planning and organising
skills. Networking skills. Communication (written and verbal) skills.
Professional counselling skills. Policy analysis and development skills.
Financial management skills. Presentation and facilitation skills. Report writing.
Monitoring and evaluation skills. People management skills. Ability to compile
complex reports. Attributes: Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work in a
team and independently. Innovative and creative. Friendly and trustworthy.
Integrity.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and maintain child protection policies. Monitor, interpret
and review legislation, policies and procedures to determine whether
legislation, policies and procedures are still relevant and comply with current
requirements. Develop proposals to amend/maintain the relevant acts, policies
and procedures and develop new policies/procedures where required. This
includes costing the policies. Develop programmes to implement the relevant
policies. Facilitate, monitor, and evaluate the implementation of community-
based prevention and early intervention services for vulnerable children
(Risiha). Facilitate the funding of a national body to provide services to
vulnerable children. Keep up to date with new developments in the social work
field. This would, inter alia, entail the following: (i) Study professional journals
and publications to ensure that cognisance is taken of new developments. (ii)
Monitor and study the social services, legal, and policy framework
continuously. (ii) Liaise/attend meetings with other departments, non-
government institutions and relevant stakeholders to take cognisance of the
latest developments in the relevant fields. Engage in continuous professional
development activities as prescribed. Research and development. Perform the
administrative functions required in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B. Sambo Tel No: (012) 312-7178
POST 20/76 : PROJECT ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: O1/H/2026
Directorate: Enterprise Project Management (PMO)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Project Management/
Business or Public Administration Plus 1 to 2 years’ experience in project
management environment. Knowledge and understanding of the relevant
Public Service regulatory framework such as MISS, National Archives and
Record Service Act, PAJA, PAIA. Knowledge and understanding of DPSA
Corporate Governance ICT Policy Framework. Knowledge and understanding
of Information and Communication Technology framework. Knowledge and
understanding of PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge and
understanding of project administration. Knowledge and understanding of
project management discipline and life cycle (PMBOK, PRINCE2). Knowledge
and understanding of project management tools and techniques.
Competencies needed: Communication (written and verbal) skills. Planning
and Organising skills. Problem solving skills. Policy analysis and
implementation skills. Computer literacy. Client management and
administration skills. Project administration skills. Analytical skills. Report
writing skills. Facilitation and presentation skills. Attributes: Accuracy. Ability to
work under pressure. Ability to work in a team and independently. Friendly and
trustworthy. Diplomacy. Self-stater. Confidentiality. Systematic.
DUTIES : Administer all IMST departmental projects in line with the project management
framework and prescripts. Coordinate and manage project documentation and
correspondence. Coordinate projects meetings. Provide support in the
implementation of the project plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Mamatlepa Tel No: (012) 312-7077
76
ANNEXURE P
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE (DSAC)
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must use this link or QR code below to access DSAC E-Recruitment
System. https://erecruit.dsac.gov.za/public/login_test.php
Hand delivery: Sealed envelope addressed to Chief Director: Human Resource
Management and Development, Sechaba House, 202 Madiba Street, Pretoria
Central. Postal mail to The Chief Director: Human Resource Management and
Development, Private Bag X897, Pretoria, 0001.
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026, 16:00
NOTE : Please create a user profile by completing all required personal information
and setting up your login credentials. Once registration is complete, log in to
the system and you will be directed to the “Welcome Page”. From the Welcome
Page, you may browse all vacant positions opportunities listed below.
Applicants are strongly advised to complete all information required for the
electronic Z83 form on the system before applying for any position. The Z83
form has been adopted into the system, and applications cannot be processed
unless all mandatory fields are completed. After completing your profile and
Z83 information, you may apply for any relevant advertised position through
the system. Ensure that your application is fully completed and submitted
before the closing date, as incomplete or late applications will not be
considered. Once submitted, the system will provide a confirmation message
indicating that your application has been successfully received. The e-
Recruitment portal is also accessible via smartphones and other mobile
devices. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to bring certified copies of ID, Driver’s
licence (where required) and qualifications on or before the interview. Should
you be in possession of any foreign qualification(s), it must be accompanied by
an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA);
Applicants must be South African citizens. Shortlisted candidates must avail
themselves for a virtual or in-person panel interview at a date and time
determined by DSAC. The applicant should make own arrangement for access
to internet connectivity and equipment for this purpose. Applicants must note
that pre-employment checks and references will be conducted once they are
shortlisted. The appointment is also subject to a positive outcome on these
checks, including security clearance, security vetting, qualification/study
verification, citizenship verification, financial/asset record check, previous
employment verification and criminal record. If an applicant wishes to withdraw
an application, it must be done in writing. We encourage all applicants to
declare any criminal and/or negative credit records. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and sign an annual performance agreement. The
Department of Sport, Arts and Culture is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the Employment
Equity Plan of the Department to achieve its Employment Equity targets. It is
the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of these posts. The Department reserves the right not to
make an appointment and to use other recruitment processes, thus
withdrawing this advert by notice on its communication channels. Prior to
appointment for SMS post, a candidate would be required to complete the
Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as
endorsed by the DPSA, which is an online course endorsed by the National
School of Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the
name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced from
the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/.If you have not been contacted within three months of the closing
date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. We thank all applicants for their interest.
77
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/77 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE UTILISATION AND DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: DSAC-07/06/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package, consisting of a
basic salary (70% of the total remuneration package), State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion that may be structured in terms of applicable rules and guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by
SAQA in Human Resource Development / Public Management/ Industrial
Psychology or any relevant in qualification in Human Resource Management;
Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for Public Sector Senior
Management Leadership as endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG); 5 years of experience at a Middle/ Senior Managerial level in Human
Resource utilisation and development or any training and development
environment; A valid driver’s license and willingness to travel; PERSAL
Certificate; Knowledge of performance management and HRD policies and
procedures; Knowledge and understanding of relevant human resource
frameworks; Understanding of workplace skills development and performance
management development system; Knowledge and understanding of e-
learning platforms and digital learning solutions; Knowledge of and
understanding of the Public Finance Management Act, Labour Relations Act,
Public Service Act and Regulations, Basic Conditions of Service Act,
Employment Equity Act and Skills Development Act and Regulations;
Flexibility; Team and results orientated.
DUTIES : The purpose of this post is to manage human resource utilisation and
development within the Department; Manage the human Resources
Development Strategy-Develop and implement Departmental HRD strategies
aligned to organizational objectives; Oversee regular skills audits and training
needs analyses to identify competency gaps within the Department; Assess
the impact of skills development on departmental performance and
recommend improvements; Monitor the implementation of talent and Skills
Development in the Department; Manage the compilation of training and
monitoring reports; Develop and review bursary guidelines for the Department;
Facilitate bursary scheme in the department to build internal capacity; Manage
the allocation and transfer of bursary funding for employees to academic
institutions; Develop and Implement the Annual Training Plan; Promote a
culture of continuous learning within the Department; Ensure alignment of
training initiatives with the National Skills Development Strategy (NSDS) and
other relevant frameworks; Manage relationships with training providers and
relevant stakeholders (e.g., NSG, SETAs); Respond to audit queries; Manage
the development and implementation of training and development
programmes-Design and oversee implementation of learning and development
programmes, including leadership development and scarce skills interventions;
Manage coordination of Learnership and Internship Programmes within the
Department; Introduce e-learning platforms and digital learning solutions;
Provide support structures for learners and interns throughout their placement;
Monitor and track the progress made by learnerships and internships
programmes; Ensure compliance on all training and development programmes
and evaluate the impact of training using data analytics; Coordinate and
facilitate Induction programme for new and existing employees; Lead the
development and implementation of AI-enabled HRD initiatives to enhance
learning, skills development, performance, and workforce productivity. Drive
Departmental readiness for digital transformation and emerging technologies.
Utilise HR analytics and AI-driven insights to support workforce planning, skills
forecasting, and decision-making. Promote digital literacy, AI awareness, and
future skills development across the Department. Manage the implementation
of Performance Management Development System (PMDS) framework-
Ensure implementation of PMDS framework aligned to organisational strategy;
Ensure integration of performance management with organisational planning
and service delivery objectives; Provide strategic leadership on performance
management practices across the department; Oversee the implementation of
PMDS across all levels; Monitor compliance with performance agreements,
reviews, and assessments; Provide guidance and support to management on
78
performance-related matters; Lead the adoption of Artificial Intelligence (AI)-
driven performance management systems to enhance efficiency and
objectivity; Monitor performance outcomes and provide strategic interventions
where required; Drive the integration of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and digital
technologies into performance management processes to improve efficiency,
consistency, and decision-making. Utilise AI-powered analytics and
dashboards to monitor organisational performance trends, identify risks, and
support evidence-based management decisions. Manage compilation of report
on poor performance; Manage the development and implementation of HR
utilisation and development policies and strategies-Oversee the development,
implementation and review of HRD and PMDS policies; Oversee the
development and implementation of the Annual Training Plan strategy; Monitor
questionnaire for HRD Strategic Framework in Public Service; Monitor and
ensure compliance with relevant legislation, regulation and public service
frameworks; Provide strategic advice to senior management and employees
on PMDS and HRD Policy matters; Translate research findings into practical
policy recommendations; Manage the Directorate-Plan and coordinate the
work of the Directorate; Manage the Directorate’s budget and ensure effective
and efficient utilisation of resources; Ensure compliance with legislative
frameworks and audit requirements; Provide strategic reports HRD&U
performance including AI driven insights; Manage the risks in your environment
and ensure sound governance practices.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Lamati Tel No: (012) 441 3831
POST 20/78 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN LANGUAGE TECHNOLOGIES REF NO: DSAC-
08/06/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package, consisting of a
basic salary (70% of the total remuneration package), State’s contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible
portion that may be structured in terms of applicable rules and guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification. An Undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by
SAQA specialisation in Languages/ Information Technology/ Human Language
Technology/ Applied Linguistics or any relevant Language/Technology
qualification; Successful completion of the Pre-entry Certificate for the Senior
Management Service (SMS) as endorsed by the National School of
Government; 5 years of experience at a Middle/ Senior Managerial level in
project management dealing with language technology, computational
linguistics or any relevant environment. Project Management Certificate;
Knowledge and understanding of human language technologies (machine
translation, speech recognition, corpus development, etc.); Knowledge and
understanding of Public Finance Management Act and relevant Regulations;
Use of Official Languages Act, PanSALB Act, etc. Knowledge and
understanding of language policies, ICT policies, digital transformation
strategies and procedures; Analytical and problem-solving skills; Strategic
capability and leadership; Planning and organising skills; Quality and action
orientation; People management and empowerment.
DUTIES : The purpose of this post is to manage and promote access to service,
information and modernisation of South African languages through the
coordination and facilitation of Human Language Technologies (HLT) projects
and activities; Monitor and Evaluate Human Language Technology projects;
Monitor and evaluate the impact of HLT initiatives on language development
and access to information; Initiate projects and create partnerships for Human
Language Technology projects such as development of translation memory,
terminology management tools, speech data technology, etc; Intervene and
engage with project managers to address project challenges and risks;
Supervise evaluation processes of project outputs/deliverables; Develop and
maintain Human Language Technology strategies. Provide leadership and
guidance in the development and promotion of official languages and
implementation of Human Language Technology Strategy; Develop and
implement policies, strategies, and frameworks for the use of Human
Language Technologies in government and society; Align HLT initiatives with
National Language policies, the Use of Official Languages Act, and the
National Development Plan; Provide expert advice to the Department and other
Government Entities on HLT solutions to ensure they address the needs of
79
persons with disabilities Identify areas of most urgent needs for Human
Language Technology projects; Drive the process of locating Human Language
Technology within broader Information Society; Manage Human Language
Technology engagement with relevant stakeholders including project
stakeholders; Build and strengthen partnerships with local and international
stakeholders in the technology and language sectors; Negotiate with National
and International role players for critical information, permission to access
relevant databases, to collect data in the different languages of SA; Monitor
Human Language Technology trends locally and internationally.; Collaborate
with PanSALB, SADiLaR, research councils, and ICT bodies to mainstream
HLT and popularise the concept of HLT industry Manage Subordinates and the
Directorate-Reporting in terms of the Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Combrinck Tel No: (012) 441 3144
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/79 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE PLANNING AND SYSTEMS
REF NO: DSAC-09/06/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration package, consisting of a
basic salary (70/ 75% of the total remuneration package), State’s contribution
to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a
flexible portion that may be structured in terms of applicable rules and
guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Human Resource Management /
Public Management / Public Administration/ Industrial Psychology or any
relevant Human Resource Management qualification. 3-5 years relevant
experience, at least 3 years at an Assistant Director level in HR Planning, HR
Systems, Employment Equity and Policy development or any relevant HR
governance environment; PERSAL Personnel Control exposure; Knowledge
and understanding of the Employment Equity Act, Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Skills Development Act, PFMA,
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, transformation and related legislation;
Knowledge and understanding of Human resource governance, policies and
plans; Knowledge and understanding of Employment Equity and processes
and procedures; Understanding of Medium-Term Expenditure Framework;
Ability to work under pressure; Ability to work as a team and independently;
High level of integrity, ethics and accountability.
DUTIES : The purpose of this post is to provide human resource planning, information
systems and reporting mechanisms; Coordinate and ensure development of
Human Resource Plan-Coordinate the development and implementation of
human resource and plan; Ensure compliance with human resource planning
framework; Integrate workforce analytics and forecasting models to identify
capacity gaps and inform strategic workforce planning; Conduct analysis on
human resource management prescripts and working environment to identify
barriers to equity and inclusivity and recommend interventions; Analyse current
and future skills demand to support reskilling, upskilling and succession
planning initiatives; Monitor and report on the implementation of human
resource plans; Coordinate and maintain Human Resource Information
Systems (HRIS)-Maintain human resource and staff establishment information
system; Manage and monitor PERSAL control and other human resource
digital platforms; Conduct an analysis of human resource information and
produce reports; Research, recommend, and implement human resource
digital innovations; Collaborate with ICT to integrate human resource systems
with automation, predictive analytics, and chatbot-enabled employee self-
services; Produce human resource analytics reports that drive data-informed
governance, policy review, and operational improvement; Facilitate the
development and review of Employment Equity (EE) Plan-Facilitate the
development implementation and review of the employment equity plan; Use
data-driven tools analytics to track representation, monitor equity targets, and
forecast future equity trends; Generate interactive employment equity
dashboards to support compliance reporting and transformation initiatives;
Compile, analyse and submit statutory employment equity reports; Coordinate
and participate in employment equity and Skills Development
80
Forum/Committee; Provide advisory support to management and employees
with regards to employment equity and transformation; Promote awareness
and training programmes on employment equity within the department;
Oversee Compensation and Workforce Costing-Maintain and monitor the
Compensation of Employee (CoE) costing model in collaboration with the
Management Accounting unit; Ensure alignment between the approved staff
establishment, funded posts and compensation budget; Model salary, benefits
and allowance impacts, and OSD adjustments to support budget planning;
Monitor and report on vacancy over /under spending trends and provide
recommendations to management; Conduct analyses to assess the financial
implications of organisational changes-, imple-mentation of human resource
plans and policy directives; Validate compensation data for accuracy,
completeness and audit compliance; Coordinate the development and review
of Human Resource Management Policies and Governance-Keep abreast with
changes and public service trends in the human resource environment; Provide
advice to relevant unit on the development and review of human resource
policies; Coordinate the review process of human resource policies;
Disseminate the approved human resource policies to departmental
employees; Ensure policies align with digital transformation objectives, human
resource technology standards, and data privacy requirements (POPIA).
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Maloka Tel No: (012) 441 3730
POST 20/80 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER GRADE A REF NO: DSAC-
10/06/2026
SALARY : R914 517 - R975 582 per annum, (total package), as outlined in terms of the
Occupation-specific Dispensation for Engineering professions and related
occupations)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Matric Certificate / Grade 12 Certificate / NQF 4 or
equivalent qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)
as recognised by SAQA in the Built Environment, Construction Management,
Civil Engineering, Quantity Surveying, Architecture or any relevant Built
Environment qualification with a minimum of four (4) years and six (6) months
certified experience in Built Environment / A BTech qualification (NQF level 7)
as recognised by SAQA in the Built Environment, Construction Management,
Civil Engineering, Quantity Surveying, Architecture or any relevant Built
Environment qualification with a minimum of four (4) years certified experience
in Built Environment / Honours Degree (NQF level 8) as recognised by SAQA
in the Built Environment, Construction Management, Civil Engineering,
Quantity Surveying, Architecture or any relevant Built Environment qualification
with a minimum of three (3) years certified experience in Built Environment;
Compulsory registration as a Professional Construction Project Manager with
the South African Council for the Project and Construction Management
Professions (SACPCMP) on appointment; A Code 08 driver’s license;
Willingness to travel; Knowledge of the Regulatory framework applicable to
Public Infrastructure; Knowledge and understanding of the Project
management principles and methodologies; Knowledge and understanding of
System (IDMS) and Government Immovable Assets Management Act (GIAMA)
etc. Knowledge and understanding of legal compliance; Knowledge of the
sporting and cultural environment in South Africa.
DUTIES : The purpose of this post is to provide technical and management support to
municipalities and other infrastructure related projects to ensure compliance
with Norms and standards; Manage and co-ordinate all aspects of projects-
Guide the project planning, implementation, monitoring, reporting and
evaluation in line with project management methodology; Develop, execute
and review project work plans to meet changing needs and requirements;
Identify resources needed and assign individual responsibilities; Manage day-
to-day operational aspects of a project and scope; Effectively apply
methodology and enforce project standards to minimize risk on projects;
Review project designs; Conduct site inspections; Conduct conditional
assessment of existing projects; Manage project budget and financial
resources in consultation with the Project Manager-Monitor and report project
progress to Project Manager; Manage project budget and resources; Attend
progress site meetings; Ensure utilisation of financial resources allocated
effectively; Provide administration support to tender processes-Provide inputs
to other professionals with tender administration; Liaise and interact with
81
service providers, clients and management; Contribute to human resources
and related activities; Maintain the record management system and the
architectural library; Conduct research, development and ensure compliance;
Ensure laws and regulations on design, construction and building procedures;
Ensure Implementation and monitoring of Infrastructure projects within the
Department; Keep up with new technologies and procedures; Research/
literature on new developments on project management methodologies; Liaise
with relevant bodies/ councils on project management matters; Supervise
subordinates-Advise and lead subordinates regarding all aspects of the work;
Ensure compliance with governance, risk, and performance management
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Tshivhase Tel No: (012) 441 3013
POST 20/81 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TERMINOLOGY COORDINATION (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria:
Afrikaans Ref No: DSAC-11/06/2026
Siswati Ref No: DSAC-12/06/2026
Isindebele Ref No: DSAC-13/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Language Practice/ Linguistics/
Translation and Interpreting Studies/ BA /BEd with a major in a relevant source
language qualification; 2-3 years relevant experience with at least 2 years as a
Language Practitioner in a terminological or lexicographical environment;
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations; Knowledge of terminological and
lexicographical principles; Knowledge of relevant prescripts and Regulations;
Knowledge and understanding of Language policies and procedures;
Knowledge of Terminology Management System; Strong editing, proofreading,
and writing skills; Excellent command of at least two official languages
(including English); Project Management skills; advanced computer skills;
Problem solving and Analysis; Presentation skills; Good Communication and
interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : The purpose of these positions is to ensure that a multilingual technical
terminology service is rendered in the department through source text
development; target text development; compilation of front and back matter;
project management; stakeholder collaboration; development of national
terminology policy and implementation; publication and dissemination of
terminology lists; recording of minutes; translation-oriented terminography;
conducting terminology research; management of the Terminology
Management System (TMS); management of the National Terminology
Register and the National Term Bank; conducting training on principles of
terminology management and people management. Collaboration with other
language stakeholders and continuous liaison with institutions and members
of language communities; Supervise subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Dr H Machaba Tel No: (012) 441 3251
POST 20/82 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TRANSLATION AND EDITING (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria:
Xitsonga Ref No: DSAC-14/06/2026
Sepedi Ref No: DSAC-15/06/2026
Isindebele Ref No: DSAC-16/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Language Studies/ Linguistics/
Translation and Interpreting Studies/ majoring in a relevant language and/or
translation, or relevant language qualification; 2–3 years relevant experience
at least 2 years as a Language Practitioner in the translation environment;
Successful completion of a departmental translation and editing test in the
relevant official language; Knowledge of Public Service Regulations;
Knowledge and understanding of relevant language policies and prescripts;
Knowledge of translation/ editing/ language administration; Excellent
command of at least two official languages including English; Strong editing,
proofreading and writing skills; Ability to translate and edit text electronically;
82
Good communication interpersonal relations; Planning and organising skills;
Computer literacy; Research skills.
DUTIES : The purpose of this position is to promote access to information by providing
translation and editing services; Translating official documents from English
into the relevant official language and vice versa; Receive and review official
documents for translation requirements; Study, analyse and excerpt
problematic terms from source documents; Translate documents from English
into the relevant official language; Translate documents from the relevant
official language into English; Consult with subject matter experts or language
specialists when necessary; Editing official documents written in the relevant
official language and editing, checking and proofreading official documents
translated into the relevant official language; Editing official documents written
in [Xitsonga/Sepedi/Isindebele, depending on the position applied for];
Checking and verifying the accuracy of edited documents; Proofreading final
versions of official documents translated into [Xitsonga/Sepedi/Isindebele,
depending on the position applied for]; Ensuring quality and consistency in all
translated and edited materials; Performing quality checks on all documents
before final approval; Conduct research and develop terminology;-Conduct
research and consultation on translation issues; Review and revise existing
terminology for clarity and accuracy Provide administrative support and liaison
service; Archiving all translated and edited documents electronically; Reporting
on progress; Liaise with stakeholders; Carry out tasks as requested by the
supervisor; Assist and give advice to clients on language matters; Supervision
of subordinates-Supervise translation activities of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PM Gaffane Tel No: (012) 441 3256
POST 20/83 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC COMMITTEES (EMINENT PERSONS
GROUP (EPG) REF NO: DSAC-17/06/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF 6)/ Degree (NQF
level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Public Administration, Office Management,
Business Administration, Business Management, Office Management and
Technology or any relevant Administration qualification; 2-3 years relevant
experience at least 2 years as an Administration Officer in secretariat support
of sport transformation initiatives for EPG or any relevant administration / office
support environment; Knowledge of Relevant Public Service Regulation.
Transformation Charter and Prescripts; Understanding of office procedures,
administrative systems and policies; Understanding of Sport Federations;
Knowledge and understanding of the Sport sector in South Africa; Knowledge
and understanding of EPG initiatives; Data analytical skills; Client Orientation
and Customer Focus; Presentation skills; Good communication and
Interpersonal relations; Computer literacy; Planning and organising skills;
Strong Minute taking skills; Problem solving skills; Analytical skills; Research
skills; knowledge management skills, document management skills;
meticulous and attention to detail.
DUTIES : The purpose of this post is to provide administrative and logistical support to
the Eminent Persons Group (EPG) and its Secretariat by coordinating sport
transformation initiatives; Capture, verify and cross check data received from
Federations; Distribute data sheets to National Federations; Receive
completed Data Sheets from National Federations; Follow up on outstanding
data sheets from Federations; Capture Data Received from Federations into
Master Sheet; Conduct research to assist in report writing; Submit Cross
Checked Master Sheet Data to Federations for verification; Ensure all Master
Sheet information submitted to Federations are returned and verified;
Communicate regularly with Federations to clarify discrepancies and support
data accuracy; Identify and resolve data anomalies, inconsistencies, and
missing information; Monitor federations adherence to timelines and reporting
standards; Compile reports highlighting data quality issues and areas for
improvement; Maintain and approve verified Master Data Sheets; Record and
track all anomaly resolution activities for audit and reporting purposes; Provide
regular progress updates and feedback to relevant stakeholders; Ensure data
is correct and up to date for annual audit; Assist in developing and maintaining
Master Comparative Data Sheet, Comparative Barometer Tables, and Prepare
graphs, tables, data interpretation and data analysis; Provide administrative
83
support services to the unit and the EPG Committee; Liaise with the EPG
Chairperson and Members to coordinate and schedule meeting dates for the
financial year; Attend and provide secretariat support to the EPG Committee;
Attend EPG meetings virtually and in person, both internal and external; Take
minutes of meetings and circulate to all stakeholders; Ensure all meeting
minutes are completed with accuracy and submitted timeously; Track and
follow up on action items and resolutions from meetings; Serve as a point of
contact between the EPG Secretariat and stakeholders; Maintain filing systems
(electronic and manual) and ensure records are properly managed and easily
retrievable; Prepare relevant documents, minutes, correspondence, reports,
submissions, memos and briefing notes as required; Ensure timely
dissemination of information and documentation; Handle confidential
documents with discretion and maintain data integrity; Provide support to the
Director and the EPG Committee members in terms of Transformation Reports-
Consolidate and provide support in terms of writing the EPG Report; Assist with
proof-reading the report; Assist with issues related to printing the report.;
Ensure all logistics are in place for the release of the report; Distribute the EPG
Transformation report to internal and external stakeholders; Coordinate travel
for the EPG Director and EPG committee and assist with financial
administration activities within the Directorate-Monitor expenditure against the
allocated budget and report variances; Make travel arrangements for the
Director and EPG Committee members; Prepare and assist in processing
travel claims for EPG Committee members and reconcile expenditure in line
with financial policies; Assist with documentation for procuring a service
provider if required; Maintain records of financial transactions and ensure
compliance with relevant policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Dawad Tel No: (012) 441 3000
POST 20/84 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: GEOGRAPHICAL NAMES (ADMINISTRATON
AND RESEARCH REF NO: DSAC-18/06/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; Three-year Degree/ National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Geography/ Heritage Studies or any
relevant Heritage qualification; 2-3 years relevant experience at least 2 years
at a Heritage Officer level in research, geographical names, information or data
analysis, and data processing or any related environment; A valid driver’s
licence; Knowledge of South African Geographical Names Council Act, 1998;
Knowledge and understanding of South African Heritage Sector; Knowledge of
Heritage and cultural policy frameworks; Knowledge of Public Service
legislation and regulations; Ability to operate at a national, provincial, and local
levels; Understanding of language developments and orthography rules;
Computer literacy; Research and presentation skills; Good communication and
interpersonal relations; Analytical and critical thinking skills; Knowledge and
understanding of ArcView, ArcMap and Visual basics will be added advantage;
Problem solving skills; Planning and organising skills; Knowledge of basics of
Project Management.
DUTIES : The purpose of this post is to provide coordination, and administrative support
in the South African Geographical Names Council (SAGNC); Facilitate the
standardization of geographical names in the country-Assist with liaising with
Provincial Geographical Names Committees to receive geographical name
applications; Ensure geographical names applications comply with the
Councils SOP’s; Assist to compile and circulate calendars for SAGNC
meetings, awareness and stakeholder engagements; Draft responses to
general requests and queries; Drive evidence-based research and analysis on
geographical names, heritage, history, and linguistic dimensions to support
national standardization processes on receipt of geographical names.
Participate in documenting indigenous knowledge, orthography, and place-
name heritage to strengthen informed decision-making and academic
collaboration. Provide Secretariat Support to the South African Geographical
Names Council-Arrange logistics for SAGNC and subcommittee meetings
(venue, catering, travel bookings); Prepare, record and distribute minutes and
meeting documentation of subcommittee and council meetings; Assist with
filing and management of SAGNC records; Coordinate processing of payments
and travel claims for SAGNC members; Assist in drafting memos and
84
submitting necessary documents to Supply Chain Management for budget and
financial Reconciliation; Provide administrative support in the establishment of
the South African Geographical Names Council (SAGNC)-Assist with the
nomination, appointment and general setting up of the new SAGNC members;
Coordinate induction programme and ensuring reconciliation; File documents
related to the nomination and the appointment process of the council; Arrange
awareness campaigns and monitor Stakeholder Liaison-Assist with organising
awareness campaigns and outreach initiatives; Arrange logistics for awareness
campaigns; Assist communication with National, Provincial, local authorities
and stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WG Kasibe Tel No: (012) 441 3033
POST 20/85 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: MAINTENANCE, HEALTH AND SAFETY REF
NO: DSAC-19/06/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate/ NQF level 4 or
equivalent qualification. A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF 6)/
Degree (NQF level 7) in Environmental Health/ Safety Management/ Facilities
Management as recognised by SAQA or any other relevant qualification.
Completed Community Service. Valid driver’s licence. Registration with
HPCSA or any relevant organization. 1-2 years relevant experience in
maintenance, facilities or Occupational Health and Safety environment or any
related environment field. Knowledge of facilities maintenance processes and
Occupational Health Safety principles. Basic understanding of the
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Maintenance and related legislations.
Understanding of administrative processes and records management skills.
Computer literacy. Good report writing skills. Good communication and
interpersonal relations. Planning and organizational skills. Problem-solving and
coordination skills.
DUTIES : Report defects, compile job cards and liaise with the landlord. Monitor and
ensure that all maintenance and repairs are completed timeously. Liaise with
internal stakeholders and external service providers regarding maintenance
issues. Oversee cleaning services. Manage the procurement and distribution
of toilet and cleaning consumables. Manage minor repairs via the handyman
services. Compile maintenance reports and statistics for management. Monitor
turnaround times and follow up on outstanding maintenance tasks. Manage the
Meeting Room Booking (MRBS). Oversee the preparation of meeting rooms.
Oversee the cleaning of the Pause areas. Supervise the printing production
services. Conduct inspections of buildings and ensure compliance with the
Health and Safety procedures and quality standards. Assist with the
coordination of occupational health and safety activities in addressing
emerging environmental risks. Monitor hygiene and housekeeping at all
departmental sites. Investigate and report incidents and complaints. Liaise and
work closely with the health and safety representatives at all Departmental
sites. Assist with coordination of the emergency preparedness exercises at all
sites. Assist with maintaining a healthy and safe working environment to ensure
compliance. Provide administrative support for the implementation of OHS
policies, procedures and programmes. Maintain OHS registers, incident/
accident records and compliance documentation. Ensure confidentiality and
integrity of records and information. Manage the contracts for building
maintenance such as but not limited to Toilet consumables, Air fresheners,
DSTV and TV licences. Prepare submission and memos for approval to
procure. Liaise with internal stakeholders and external service providers.
Compile the terms of reference and specifications. Monitor services rendered
by all contractors. Check and ensure all payments are affected timeously.
Provide general administrative support including correspondence, filing,
compliance documents, and certificates. Assist and schedule meetings,
prepare agendas and record minutes related to maintenance and OHS
matters. Coordinate training sessions, inductions and awareness programmes
for employees and contractors. Assist with procurement administration related
to maintenance and OHS services and supplies. Support compliance with the
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Maintenance and related regulations.
Assist in monitoring contractor compliance with safety and maintenance
requirements. Allocate work and monitor progress. Provide overall supervision
and guidance to subordinates. Provide training and development of
85
subordinates. Manage discipline. Ensure all requirements of performance
management system are met. Enable a healthy and efficient working
environment with subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Philiswa Mthembu Tel No: (012) 441 3147
86
ANNEXURE Q
STATISTICS SOUTH AFRICA
Stats SA provides scientific knowledge that enables society to understand complex socio-economic
phenomena. It draws its mandate from the Statistics Act, 1999 (Act No 6 of 1999). Stats SA strives to
excel in the following five competencies: Intellectual capability to lead the scientific work of statistics,
Technological competence for purposes of large-scale processing and for complex computations and
accessibility of information to the public, Logistical competence for deployment of (forward and reverse)
logistics of large-scale field operations and for strategic choices regarding operational efficiency and
cost-effectiveness, Political competence in understanding the political environment without being
political or Politicised (commitment of delivery without fear or favour), Administrative competence: The
ability of bringing it all together.
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be submitted online on the following link:
www.statssa.gov.za/recruitment
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online and must be completed in full on all
fields including the declaration part. Clear indication of the post and reference
number that is being applied for must be selected. The application must include
only completed and signed new Form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae.
Submission of certified copies of Identity Document, Senior Certificate and the
highest required qualification as well as a driver’s license where necessary are
optional but will only be submitted by shortlisted candidates to HR on or before
the day of the interview date. General information: Females, youth and people
with disabilities are targeted for these positions and are hereby encouraged to
apply. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to two pre-
entry technical exercises and a competency assessment that intend to test
both the technical and generic managerial competencies of the job, the
logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. The shortlisted
candidate(s) will be required to undergo a Competency Assessment and must
be available for interviews at a date and time determined by Statistics South
Africa. One of the minimum entry requirements for SMS positions is the pre-
entry certificate submitted prior to appointment. For more details on the pre-
entry course visit: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/smspre-entry-
programme/. The successful candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual
performance agreement, disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected
to security clearance. Applications that do not comply with the requirements
will not be taken into consideration. If you have not received a response from
this Department within three months of the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. NOTE: Statistics South Africa reserves the right to fill
or not fill the below-mentioned post.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/86 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: BUSINESS REGISTER REF NO: 02/06/26HO
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Business Management/ Economics/ Statistics/
Data Science Training in Total Quality Management , Project Management,
Financial Management, Data Science, 5 years’ of experience at senior
managerial level in the statistical production processes, Extensive experience
in data collection, statistical analysis, business classification, managing and
supervising a team, A good understanding of the South African business
environment and including the understanding of VAT/TAX legislation,
Knowledge of MS Office Suite, Financial Management, Business Management,
Economics, Statistics, Business registration and Taxation, Management,
analytical, problem-solving, verbal and written communication and
conceptualising skills, Good organiser, good communicator and negotiator,
customer oriented, Strategic thinking and planning and performance
management, leadership, skills, Ability to work under pressure, ability to handle
multiple and complex tasks and projects, ability to pay attention to detail and
strong focus on service delivery, A valid driver’s license.
87
DUTIES : Lead and direct the profiling of large and complex businesses, Lead and
manage the maintenance of all identified statistical business units, Lead,
manage and monitor the quality of the statistical business register, Lead
innovation, and methodological development for the business register, Lead
and manage the classification of businesses in respect of both economic
activities as well as institutional sector, Lead the development of policies and
procedures; processes; and plans, Direct and manage staff and other
resources of the chief directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Montsho Tel No: (012) 310 4889
POST 20/87 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL OFFICE (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (Kugompo City) Ref No: 03/06/26EC
KwaZulu Natal (Durban) Ref No: 04/06/26KZN
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Statistics/ Demography/ Geography/ Population
Studies; Training in Leadership and Management, Project Management,
Research and Survey Methodology; Computer software packages e.g.
Microsoft Office Suite, Customer / Marketing focus, Financial and Asset
Management, Labour Relations, Strategic Management, Change
Management; 5 years of relevant experience at senior managerial level,
Experience in Managerial or project management, Data collection by fieldwork,
analysis and report writing and experience in Census taking activities,
Knowledge of national and international standards and practices, Survey
Methodologies, Project Management, Computer Software packages,
Government Acts, Knowledge of profiles of users and stakeholders and their
specific requirements. Knowledge of Marketing, Labour Relations, Financial
Management and Strategic planning, A valid driver’s license, Skills in
Monitoring field operations, Analytical and strategic thinking, Decision-making,
Research skills, Identify special development needs. Teamwork, Leadership
skills, Presentation skills, Language Proficiency, Statistical analysis and
financial management and proven general management skills, conflict
management, data analytics tools, Willingness to work long hours to meet
deadlines and travel.
DUTIES : Direct and manage the fieldwork operations and data collection, Drive and
direct marketing, dissemination and user information services, Direct and
coordinate the development of the Provincial National Statistics System (NSS),
Lead the development and implementation of strategies, policies, processes
and procedures, Direct and manage financial and human resources within the
provincial office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Montsho Tel No: (012) 310 4889
POST 20/88 : DIRECTOR: BASIC SERVICES AND INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR
STATISTICS REF NO: 05/06/26HO
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Data Science/ Statistics/ Demography/
Population Studies/ Development Studies/ Geography/GIS, Training in Project
Management, Statistical Analysis, Training in SAS or other statistical
packages, 5 years of experience at a middle/ senior managerial level and
exposure in the relevant field, Extensive knowledge in official and national
statistics, Experience in census/surveys or administrative data collection/
registers, Extensive knowledge of statistical and other related legislations,
Extensive knowledge of data quality & management, Extensive knowledge of
monitoring and evaluation systems and indicator development, Extensive
Knowledge of Census, Survey and administrative data methodologies; Training
on Project management, Statistics Analysis, SAS Training or training in another
statistical package; An innovative thinker with diversity awareness, creativity,
assertiveness, open for change and improvement, self-driven, result-driven
and team player.
DUTIES : Establish and manage partnership with stakeholders within the Basic Services
and Infrastructure Sector, Manage capacity building to Entities of the NSS,
Manage and address data, quality and capacity gaps for all data producing
entities; Ensure the implementation of clearance protocol for Basic Services
and Infrastructure Sector Statistics, Ensure development and review of sector
strategies and plans, Manage staff and other resources of the directorate.
88
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Twala Tel No: (012) 310 8326
POST 20/89 : DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC STATISTICS ASSESSMENT REF NO: 06/06/26HO
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Statistics/ Accounting/ Economics/
Econometrics; Training in official statistics, data quality including the use of
SASQAF, MS Office suite and MS Project; 5 years of experience at a middle/
senior managerial level and exposure of the following: statistical production
process in the field of economic surveys and data quality assessment using
SASQAF, Knowledge of the Fundamental principles of official statistics,
Statistics Act and legislations, Various statistical standards and classification
systems, Knowledge of statistical processes and the statistical value
chain/generic statistical business process model, Knowledge of international
guidelines and methodologies as applicable to the field of economic statistics
such as national accounts, price statistics, labour market statistics, and
government finance statistics, etc. Planning and time management skills,
Conceptualising, interpretation and communication skills, Problem
identification and developing solutions, must be able to work with deadlines,
Ability to do extensive reading and web research, attending work sessions
(internally or externally) and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Manage data quality assessment for economic statistics products, Ensure the
development of independent quality assessment reports for economic statistics
products, Manage and coordinate the process of certifying statistics as official,
Ensure the development and review of data quality instruments and tools,
Ensure the development of policies and procedures; processes; and plans,
Manage staff and other resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Twala Tel No: (012) 310 8326
POST 20/90 : DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC SECTOR STATISTICS REF NO: 07/06/26HO
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Data Science/ Statistics/ Economics/
Econometrics; Training in Project Management, Statistics Analysis, Training in
SAS or other statistical packages, 5 years of experience at a middle/ senior
managerial level and exposure in the relevant field; Extensive knowledge in
official and national statistics, Experience in census/surveys or administrative
data collection/ registers; Extensive knowledge of statistical and other related
legislations; Extensive knowledge of data quality & management; Extensive
knowledge of monitoring and evaluation systems and indicator development;
Extensive knowledge of Census, Survey and administrative data
methodologies; Ability to articulate abstract concepts simply to stakeholders,
high level of conceptual and abstract thinking, excellent problem solving and
analytical skills, report writing skills, An innovative thinker with diversity
awareness, creativity, assertiveness, open for change and improvement, self-
driven, result-driven and team player.
DUTIES : Establish and manage partnership with stakeholders within the Economic
Statistics Subsystem, Manage capacity building to Entities of the NSS, Manage
and address data, quality and capacity gaps for all data producing entities,
Ensure the implementation of clearance protocol for Economic Statistics
Subsystem, Ensure development and review of sector strategies and plans,
Manage staff and other resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Twala Tel No: (012) 310 8326
POST 20/91 : DIRECTOR: MULTI-DIMENSIONAL POVERTY STATISTICS REF NO:
08/06/26HO
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Statistics/ Economics/ Econometrics/
Demography/ Development Studies, Training in MS Office Suite, STATA, SAS
or other statistical analysis software, 5 years of experience at a middle/ senior
managerial level in data analysis and writing statistical and thematic reports,
Knowledge of Mathematics, Statistics, Econometrics, Economics,
Development Studies, Demography and Population Studies; Knowledge of
89
Alkire-Foster methodology for computation of multidimensional poverty,
Knowledge of the Statistical Value Chain/business-mapping process of the
organisation; Knowledge of statistical standards across the survey value chain,
Analytical, numeric, report writing skills, basic programming skills,
Conceptualising, interpretation and presentation skills, Planning and time
management skills, Innovative and analytical thinker, good communicator,
Ability to work with team- members (interpersonal skills), Consistent,
committed, strategic thinker and organised.
DUTIES : Manage the development of multidimensional poverty data items and
indicators; Manage training and quality assurance on multidimensional poverty
content; Manage the production of multidimensional poverty products; Manage
stakeholder needs and data requests relating to multidimensional poverty
statistics; Ensure the development of policies and procedures; processes; and
plans; Manage staff and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Twala Tel No: (012) 310 8326
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/92 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DISTRICT MANAGEMENT (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: Nelson Mandela Bay District Office Ref No: 14/06/26HO
North-West: Ngaka Modiri Molema District Office Ref No: 15/06/26HO (X2
Posts)
Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati District Office Ref No: 16/06/26HO
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Statistics/ Mathematics/ Demography/
Geography/Financial Management/ Accounting/ Human Resource
Management/ Public Management/ Public Administration/ Business
Administration/ Facilities Management/ Security Management/ Logistics.
Training in research, sampling techniques, survey methods, financial
management, marketing, stakeholder relations, customer focus, fleet
management, logistics management, risk management, report writing,
SASQAF Training. 3-4 years’ experience as an Assistant Director in relevant
fields such field operations, statistical support and coordination and Corporate
Services. Knowledge of survey methodologies, project management, financial
management, strategic management, risk management, HR management,
facilities management, asset management, public management,
Communication, decision-making, presentation, strategic thinking,
interviewing, conflict resolution, leadership, map reading, report writing,
supervisory and team management skills, skills in monitoring field operations.
A creative, energetic, self-driven, results driven, assertive and innovative
worker who has diversity awareness and emotional intelligence, is open to
change and improvement, a good listener, is oriented towards service delivery,
has consistency and integrity and stress management skills, A valid driver’s
license and ability to drive.
DUTIES : Develop district tactical and operational plans. Manage fieldwork operations/
services in the district. Manage Corporate Services in the district. Conduct
stakeholder engagements to communicate, market and disseminate Stats SA
products and services at district level. Manage staff and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Parkins at 082 904 9771
POST 20/93 : PRINCIPAL SYSTEMS ANALYST: SYSTEM ANALYSIS AND DESIGN REF
NO: 09/06/26HO
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Information Technology (IT), Computer Science,
and Information System; Training Agile software development methodologies,
ITIL/ COBIT certification, DevOps, Project Management, 5 - 7 years’
experience in practicing systems analysis and design in the general software
development lifecycle; Training in solutions architecture and design,
Application of agile software development methodologies, Handling multiple
projects simultaneously, Competence to use design and project management
tools (MS Project, Visio); Knowledge of Data modelling/processing, End-to-end
technology, data and applications operations, Understanding of Technology
trends; Good interpersonal, conceptual, leadership, planning, numerical,
90
communication, analytical, presentation, Ability to pay attention to detail, Ability
to work under pressure and handle multiple and complex tasks and projects.
DUTIES : Conduct system analysis and planning; Refine the draft design artefacts based
on the solution design; Conduct analysis and design during solution delivery;
Facilitate systems maintenance and support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Jones Tel No: (012) 310 4880
POST 20/94 : PRINCIPAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPER: APPLICATION ARCHITECTURE REF
NO: 10/06/26HO (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Information Technology (IT), Computer Science,
and Information System; 5 – 7 years’ experience in practicing systems
development in the general software development lifecycle; Training in Agile
software development methodologies, ITIL/ COBIT certification, DevOps,
Project Management, SAS/Statistical training, Training in solutions architecture
and design, Application of agile software development methodologies,
Handling multiple projects simultaneously, Competence to use design and
project management tools (MS Project, Visio), Knowledge of Data
modelling/processing, End-to-end technology, data and applications
operations, Understanding of Technology trends; Good interpersonal,
conceptual, leadership, planning, numerical, communication, analytical,
presentation, Ability to pay attention to detail, Ability to work under pressure
and handle multiple and complex tasks and projects.
DUTIES : Review the development and maintenance of new analytical/statistical
solutions; Conduct application changes on the management framework;
Review the maintenance of existing the analytics systems; Review the
accuracy, reliability, and optimal performance of analytics systems, programs,
and data processes
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Jones Tel No: (012) 310 4880
POST 20/95 : PRINCIPAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPERS: SOLUTIONS DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: 11/06/26HO (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Information Technology (IT)/ Computer Science/
and Information System; 5-7 years’ experience in practicing systems
development and support in the software development lifecycle; Training in
solutions architecture and design, Website management, Application of agile
software development methodologies, Handling multiple projects
simultaneously, Software development in web and windows, Agile software
development methodologies, Project management skills; Knowledge of Data
modelling, Web infrastructure, Relational Databases, Understanding of
Technology trends; Good interpersonal, conceptual, leadership, planning,
numerical, communication, analytical, presentation, coordination and liaison
skills with a strong focus on service delivery, customer needs and process and
product quality, Ability to pay attention to detail, Ability to work under pressure
and handle multiple and complex tasks and projects.
DUTIES : Conduct software planning; Develop front-end software solutions and
interfaces; develop back-end services for software solutions; Implement code
quality activities and practices; Provide technical support for production
software solutions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Jones Tel No: (012) 310 4880
POST 20/96 : PRINCIPAL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: 12/06/26HO
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Information Technology (IT)/ Computer Science/
Information Systems. Training in Agile Software development methodologies,
ITIL/ COBIT certification, DevOps, Database certificate, and Project
Management. At least 5 – 7 years’ experience in practising database
administration and design in the general software development lifecycle,
Training in solution architecture and design, Application of agile software
development methodologies, ability to handle multiple projects simultaneously,
91
competence in using design and project management tools (MS Project, Visio).
Knowledge of Data modelling/processing, End-to-end technology, data and
applications operations, Understanding of Technology trends. Must have good
interpersonal, conceptual, leadership, planning, numerical, communication,
analytical, presentation skills, Ability to pay attention to detail, Ability to work
under pressure and handle multiple and complex tasks and projects.
DUTIES : Refine database design and architecture. Maintain and upgrade
database/application servers. Deploy approved changes and resolve complex
issues. Resolve application/database issues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LC Dooka Tel No: (012) 336 0106
POST 20/97 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DATA VALIDATION AND ADMINISTRATION
SUPPORT REF NO: 13/06/26HO
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Statistics/ Demography/ Econometrics/
Economics/ Development Studies; 3-4 years’ experience at ASD level in a
Statistics environment; Training in Project management; Statistical analysis,
SAS Training or training in other statistical packages; Knowledge of statistical
and related legislation, Data management, Data quality and Indicator
development. Ability to articulate abstract concepts simply to stakeholders,
High-level of conceptual and abstract thinking; excellent problem-solving,
analytical skills, interpersonal and report-writing skills. An innovative thinker
with diversity awareness, creativity, assertiveness, open for change and
improvement, self-driven, result-driven and team player.
DUTIES : Guide the implementation of statistical plans in accordance with Integrated
Indicator Framework (IIF); Monitor and coordinate statistical data flow between
South Africa and other countries and international agencies; Guide the
validation of data emanating from entities within the NSS intended for national
and international consumption; Coordinate the development, application and
review of new validation Standards; Develop and review frameworks; Manage
staff and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Dooka Tel No: (012) 336 0161
POST 20/98 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STANDARDS DEVELOPMENT REF NO: 17/06/26HO
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Statistics/ Demography/ Data Science/
Economics/ Econometrics; Training in Project Management, writing skills
course, Suite of standards development courses, Advanced Management
Course, Policy Development, Quality Management, Survey Methodology,
Official Statistics, 3- 4 years’ experience at Assistant Director level in the
statistical or related field; Knowledge of the following is required: Fundamental
principles of official statistics, Statistics Act and other legislations, Various
statistical standards and classification systems, Knowledge of statistical
processes and the statistical value chain, Survey Methodology, Various
frameworks governing production of population and social statistics, and
economics statistics, Government legislation/policies and how the Public
Sector operates, Understanding of the role of statistics in government, Quality
management systems and quality assessment frameworks, Interpretation of
international guidelines and methodologies as applicable to the field of
population and social statistics, and economic statistics. Planning and time
management skills, Conceptualising, interpretation of international guidelines
and methodologies as applicable to the field of population and social statistics
and economic statistics, Planning, time management, report writing and
communication skills, Analytical thinking and complex problem-solving skills,
Decision-making skills, Project management skills, High degree of computer
literacy, Stakeholder management, Facilitation skills, Ability to conduct
research. An innovative, analytical-oriented thinker, an independent thinker, a
good communicator, accurate and attention to details and must be able to work
in a team, should be organised, able to think strategically, be committed, able
to show perseverance, be consistent, balanced and communicate processes
effectively.
DUTIES : Monitor and coordinate the alignment of standards development initiatives with
organisational and national priorities; Monitor and coordinate the development,
92
review, and updating of statistical standards, classifications, concepts and
definitions in Stats SA and statistical units within entities of the NSS
(economics, social and environmental sectors); Monitor the development and
maintenance of statistical standards-related policies, technical documentation,
guidelines, and metadata templates; Monitor and coordinate environmental
scanning activities to ensure informed development of national, regional, and
international standards; Develop and review frameworks; Manage staff and
other resources
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Dooka Tel No: (012) 336 0106
POST 20/99 : DEPUTY DIRECTORS: PRICE STATISTICS COMPILATION REF NO:
18/06/26HO (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Statistics, Econometrics,/ Mathematics/ Data
science; Three to four (3- 4) years at Assistant Director level in similar field;
Knowledge of the Statistical, and Economic fields are essential; Computer
literacy – Ms Excel, Ms Word, PowerPoint, Project Management and SAS or
any other statistical package; Managerial skills, High level of numeracy,
Computer literate in MS suite, Software Programming, Strong problem solving
skills, Attention to detail, Good written and verbal communication skills, Good
interpersonal skills, Conflict management skills; The ability to work with people
in a team environment, The ability to communicate effectively, Strong numerical
and analytical skills, The ability to work on his/her own, The ability to take
initiative and lead teams.
DUTIES : Monitor and coordinate the compilation of price indices programmes; Monitor
the data analysis process for Price Statistics Compilation; Monitor and
coordinate editing and validation of price stats data; Monitor, Maintenance and
Enhancement of Price Statistics Compilation Systems; Monitor the compilation
and dissemination of the Price Statistics; Manage staff and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Khoza Tel No: (012) 310 8097
POST 20/100 : SYSTEMS DEVELOPER: SOLUTIONS DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
19/06/26HO (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (NQF 6) in Information Technology/ Computer Science/
Information Systems, Training in Agile software development methodologies,
COBIT/ ITIL/ TOGAF Frameworks, Project Management, 3-4 years’ experience
in practicing systems development and support in the software development
lifecycle, Knowledge of technology trends, web infrastructure, data modelling
and relational database, Training in solution architecture and design, Skills in
website management, Application of agile software development
methodologies, software development in web and windows, Agile software
development methodologies and project management, Ability to handle
multiple projects simultaneously, Ability to pay attention to detail, Ability to work
under pressure and handle multiple and complex tasks and projects, A hard
worker with good interpersonal, conceptual, leadership, planning, numerical,
communication, analytical, presentation, coordination and liaison skills with a
strong focus on service delivery, customer needs and process and product
quality.
DUTIES : Conduct feature planning. Develop front-end software feature interfaces.
Develop back-end software services for software features. Provide technical
support for production software features.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Khoza Tel No: (012) 310 8097
POST 20/101 : SYSTEM DEVELOPER: DATA ARCHITECTURE REF NO: 20/06/26HO (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (NQF 6) in Information Technology (IT), Computer Science
and Information Systems. Training in Agile Software Development
Methodologies, Scrum Fundamentals understanding Agile development
environments, Systems Development Life Cycle, SAS/Statistical training.3-4
93
years of experience in a software development life cycle. Rational database
design skills, Analytical and problem-solving skills, Good communication and
documentation skills, Familiarity with Agile/Scrum practices, Competency to
use design and project management tools (MS Project, Vision). Knowledge of
requirement gathering techniques, Understanding of technology trends. A hard
worker who is detailed oriented and through, Collaborative and team focused,
Organized and time conscious and eager to learn and adapt to new tools,
Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Develop and maintain analytical/statistical solutions. Maintain and support of
analytics systems. Implement systems. Test systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Khoza Tel No: (012) 310 8097
POST 20/102 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ECONOMICS REF NO: 21/06/26HO
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma/ A Bachelor’s degree/ NQF 7 in Economics/ Statistics/
Accounting. Training in System of National Accounts (SNA), as well as other
international guidelines and methodologies as applicable to the work area, e.g.
System of Environmental Economic Accounting (SEEA-Central Framework
and SEEA-Ecosystem Accounting) and other subject specific manuals.
Training in SAS, Introduction to Project Management, Introduction to economic
indicators and analysis, Labour Relations and Financial Management, 3-4
years’ experience in a similar field. Knowledge of the System of National
Accounts (SNA), System of Environmental Economic Accounting (SEEA-
Central Framework and SEEA-Ecosystem Accounting) and various relevant
classification systems, Ability to plan, work and meet timelines, Innovative,
analytical thinker and good communicator that works well in a team, Should be
organised and able to think strategically and communicate processes
effectively, Competence in the use of office software packages such as MS
Office, specifically Excel, Word and Power Point, Excellent verbal and written
communication skills and strong numeric and analytical skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate the partnerships with role players outside of the South African
National Statistics System (SANSS), Coordinate and innovate the production
of Environmental Economic Accounts (EEA) and Ecosystem Accounts (EA)
data, Coordinate the collection of EEA and EA data, Coordinate the analysis of
economic, social and environment data indicators, Coordinate the compilation
of EEA and EA statistics, Conduct mapping and project planning, Supervise
staff and other resources of the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Khoza Tel No: (012) 310 8097
POST 20/103 : DEMOGRAPHER: MID-YEAR POPULATION ESTIMATES AND
PROJECTIONS REF NO: 22/06/26HO
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in Demography, Population Studies, Statistics,
Economics, Geography, or a related field; 1-2 years’ experience at supervisory
level/experience in the field of statistics / Population studies. Experience in data
collection, analysis, and interpretation in population studies. Strong analytical,
report writing and presentation skills to effectively communicate demographic
findings to stakeholders. Experience in working with Census data, household
surveys, and administrative records. Familiarity with demographic methods
such as population projections, fertility and mortality analysis, and migration
studies. Knowledge of Demographic Methods & Techniques, Population
Projection Models & Tools e.g. SPECTRUM), Statistical Software Training (e.g.
SAS, R, STATA, SPSS etc.). Report writing, and presentation skills to
effectively communicate demographic findings, teamwork & time management,
communication skills and the ability to work under pressure and meet
deadlines.
DUTIES : Assess, validate and triangulate data, Develop National, Provincial and District
mid-year estimates, Develop local municipal and household estimates,
Develop short, medium and long-term estimates, Identify areas of collaboration
to Promote the use of Mid-Year Population estimates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Mokonyane Tel No: (012) 310 4604
94
POST 20/104 : STANDARDS DEVELOPER REF NO: 23/06/26HO (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (NQF 6) in Statistics / Demography / Data Science/
Economics / Econometrics; Training in Official Statistics, MS Office Suite,
Survey Methodology, Quality Management, Policy Development, Suite of
standards development courses, Training Skills Course, 0-12 months’
experience in the statistical production process or related field;
Conceptualising, interpretation, report writing, excellent communication,
stakeholder management skills, good interpersonal, facilitation, analytical
thinking, complex problem-solving, Ability to write, interpret and present the
contents of statistical standards, Ability to advocate for standardisation, High
degree of computer literacy, Ability to conduct research, Skills in interpretation
of international guidelines and methodologies as applicable to the field of
population and social and economic statistics, Knowledge of Fundamental
principles of official statistics, Statistics Act and other legislations, Various
statistical standards and classification systems, Knowledge of statistical
processes and statistical value chain, Knowledge of the development,
maintenance and implementation of standards, Knowledge of various
frameworks governing production of population and social statistics and
economic statistics, A good understanding of government policies and
initiatives and the role of statistics in government decision-making, Knowledge
of quality management systems and quality assessment frameworks,
Knowledge of stakeholder management and consultation.
DUTIES : Align standards development initiatives with organisational and national
priorities; Develop, review and update the statistical standards-related policies,
technical documentation, guidelines, and metadata templates; Conduct and
support environmental scanning activities to inform the development of
national, regional, and international standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Moalusi Tel No: (012) 3376435
POST 20/105 : STANDARDS ADVOCACY COORDINATOR REF NO: 24/06/26HO
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (NQF 6) in Statistics / Demography / Social Sciences /
Economics; 0-12 months’ experience in the statistical production process or
related field; Training in Official Statistics, MS Office Suite, Survey
Methodology, Quality Management, Policy Development, Suite of standards
development courses, Training Skills Course , Conceptualising, interpretation,
report writing, excellent communication, stakeholder management skills, good
interpersonal, facilitation, analytical thinking, complex problem-solving, Ability
to write, interpret and present the contents of statistical standards, Ability to
advocate for standardisation, High degree of computer literacy, Ability to
conduct research, Skills in interpretation of international guidelines and
methodologies as applicable to the field of population and social and economic
statistics, Knowledge of Fundamental principles of official statistics, Statistics
Act and other legislations, Various statistical standards and classification
systems, Knowledge of statistical processes and statistical value chain,
Knowledge of the development, maintenance and implementation of
standards, Ensuring buy-in to standards and standards development
processes, Knowledge of various frameworks governing production of
population and social statistics and economic statistics, A good understanding
of government policies and initiatives and the role of statistics in government
decision-making, Knowledge of quality management systems and quality
assessment frameworks, Knowledge of stakeholder management and
consultation.
DUTIES : Facilitate training and capacity-building initiatives for Stats SA and NSS
statistical units across economic, social and environmental sectors; Develop
standards advocacy materials, campaigns, publications, and messaging on
official statistics, Develop and enhance the digital instruments and tools used
for standards advocacy; Facilitate and implement statistical standards
advocacy programmes within Stats SA and within entities of the NSS, Facilitate
communication between standards owners, users, and implementing entities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O Marubyane Tel No: (012) 336 0151
95
ANNEXURE R
DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM
The Department of Tourism is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity (race, gender, and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number, must be forwarded to the
attention of Chief Director: HR Management and Development at Department
of Tourism, Private Bag X424, Pretoria, 0001, or hand delivered at Tourism
House, 17 Trevenna Road, Sunnyside, Pretoria, or by email as provided.
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026 by 16:30 (Late applications will not be considered)
NOTE : Application must include a Z83 form and CV only. The electronic application
must be in PDF format and made up of a single document file. Indicate the
correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your
email. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted
on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s)
advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialled, and signed by the applicant as instructed
below. Failure to fully complete, initial, and sign the Z83 form will lead to the
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All fields of
Section A, B, C, and D of the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G
(Due to the limited space on the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to refer to
their CV or see attached. However, the question related to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered, and the declaration
signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous
experience, if any) and a completed and signed new Z83 application form are
required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies
of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the
interview, following the communication from Human Resources, and such
qualifications (s) and other related documents (s) will be in line with the
requirements of the advert. Applicants in possession of foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). Applicants who do not
comply with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as
applications received late, will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Candidates will further be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification, and employment verification). Some of the interviewed candidates
for Senior Management level vacancies may be subjected to a 2-day
competency assessment that will test generic competencies. Appointment
validity will be conditional on the signing of the employment contract,
performance agreement, and annual financial disclosure, and the applicant
must attain a security clearance (vetting) applicable to the post. The
Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. You are consenting
to the Department of Tourism processing your personal information, subject to
POPIA, by applying for this post.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/106 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: TOURISM ENHANCEMENT REF NO: DT40/2026
The purpose of this role is to manage and increase the competitiveness of
South Africa’s tourism industry through the development, enhancement and
diversification of existing and potential tourism resources.
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package consisting of a
basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
fund, and a flexible portion that may be structured.)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum SAQA recognised qualification at NQF level 7 plus proven strategic
management and leadership experience. Minimum of 5 years’ working
experience in a Senior Management position. Essential Knowledge and skills:
96
Knowledge of policy formulation and implementation. Knowledge of the holistic
concept of the tourism economy. Understanding of the PFMA and other
Government acts and prescripts. Programme and project management skills.
Ability to interact with stakeholders at all levels. Project management skills.
Leadership and management skills. High level of computer literacy. Problem-
solving skills. Conceptual and Analytical Skills. Communication and Financial
Management skills. Possession of a valid driver’s license and willingness to
travel. One of the minimum entry requirements for SMS is the pre-entry
certificate. For more details on the pre-entry course, visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate must complete the SMS pre-entry certificate prior to any
appointment.
DUTIES : Reporting to the Deputy Director-General: Destination Development, the
successful candidate will manage the following Directorates: Product
Development, Experience and Route Development and Tourism Integration.
Key functions include: Provide leadership and strategic direction in the Chief
Directorate: Establish strategic direction of the component to ensure alignment
with departmental strategic objectives. Monitor and ensure the implementation
of the strategic and business plans. Oversee the development of Operational
Plans to give strategic direction to business components/ units. Align individual
performance to the strategic business objectives. Implement and report on
strategic frameworks in the area of functional responsibility. Monitor the
attainability & sustainability of performance standards as per departmental
objectives. Provide maintenance, development and enhancement of
infrastructure and tourism products: Manage the maintenance, development
and enhancement of tourism products. Manage the identification and
improvement of technology needs of product development. Manage the
development of plans and programmes for tourism product development.
Manage the enhancement of tourism products of state-owned assets. Facilitate
maintenance, development and enhancement of tourism experiences: Design
route which includes the identification of product development and investment
opportunities. Manage the design, development and enhancement of tourism
experiences. Monitor trade facilitation and networking. Manage the
identification and development of routes and Niche products. Manage
partnerships for experience and route development. Manage geographic
spread through new experiences and route development. Facilitate
maintenance and enhancement of tourism products of State Owned Assets:
Manage the process of conducting infrastructure and product audits. Manage
the identification of infrastructure and product development priority needs.
Manage the implementation of product and infrastructure enhancement
projects. Facilitate integration of tourism with other sectors: Manage the
integration of tourism and other related sectors. Manage the integrated link
between tourism and creative industries. Manage all the resources, operations,
systems and processes of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Chettiar schettiar@tourism.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : email application: Recruitment4026@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Coloured and White candidates as well as People living with disabilities
are encouraged to apply.
POST 20/107 : DIRECTOR: TOURISM INTEGRATION REF NO: DT41/2026
The purpose of this role is to integrate tourism with other related sectors.
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package consisting of a
basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
fund, and a flexible portion that may be structured)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum SAQA recognised qualification at NQF level 7 in Tourism
Management or an equivalent qualification. A minimum of 5 years’ experience
in an appropriate field at a Middle/Senior Management position. Essential
Knowledge and skills: Understanding of the PFMA and Treasury Regulations.
Ability to interact with high-level stakeholders. Understanding of tourism trends.
Sound understanding of the NDP, NTSS. Computer Literacy. Coordination
skills. Financial management skills. Change management skills. People
Management and empowerment skills. Strategic capacity and leadership skills.
Communication and interpersonal skills. Negotiation skills. Incumbent should
be honest, possess integrity, tact and diplomacy. Possession of a valid driver’s
license and willingness to travel. One of the minimum entry requirements for
97
SMS is the pre-entry certificate. For more details on the pre-entry course, visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate must complete the SMS pre-entry certificate prior to any
appointment.
DUTIES : Reporting to the Chief Director: Tourism Enhancement, the successful
candidate will be responsible for the following key functions: Provide leadership
and strategic direction in the Directorate: Establish strategic direction of the
component to ensure alignment with departmental strategic objectives. Monitor
and ensure the implementation of the strategic and business plans. Oversee
the development of Operational Plans to give strategic direction to business
components/ units. Align individual performance to the strategic business
objectives. Implement and report on strategic frameworks in the area of
functional responsibility. Monitor the attainability & sustainability of
performance standards as per departmental objectives. Manage the
integration of tourism and other related sectors: Provide effective coordination
and management of the integration of tourism and the other related sectors
(Identify opportunities for integration of tourism to ensure benefits and impact/s
for the sector). Provide policy and strategy alignment of NDT priorities with
those of stakeholders. Facilitate synergy in programmes of NDT and those of
stakeholders. Establish effective collaborations and partnerships with
stakeholders. Manage joint planning and implementation of
interventions/initiatives with stakeholders. Manage and coordinate reporting.
Facilitate consultations both internally and externally with the related sectors.
Render and monitor an integrated advisory service for tourism objectives to be
implemented. Monitor integrated project coordination. Monitor co-ordinated
product implementation. Develop, maintain and monitor the database in
respect of consultations in respect of related sectors (national, provincial, local
departments and state-owned entities). Manage the integration of tourism,
culture and heritage: Provide effective coordination and management of the
integration of tourism and the culture and heritage sectors (Identify
opportunities for integration of tourism to ensure benefits and impact/s for the
sector). Provide policy and strategy alignment of NDT priorities with those of
stakeholders. Facilitate synergy in programmes of NDT and those of
stakeholders. Establish effective collaborations and partnerships with
stakeholders. Manage joint planning and implementation of
interventions/initiatives with stakeholders. Manage and coordinate reporting.
Facilitate consultations both internally and externally with the transport sector.
Render and monitor an integrated advisory service for tourism objectives to be
implemented. Monitor integrated project coordination. Monitor co-ordinated
product implementation. Manage the integration of tourism and the creative
industries: Provide effective coordination and management of the integration
of tourism and the creative industries (Identify opportunities for integration of
tourism to ensure benefits and impact/s for the sector). Provide policy and
strategy alignment of NDT priorities with those of stakeholders. Facilitate
synergy in programmes of NDT and those of stakeholders. Establish effective
collaborations and partnerships with stakeholders. Manage joint planning and
implementation of interventions/initiatives with stakeholders. Manage and
coordinate reporting. Monitor consumers’ role in the development of creative
industries and experiences. Monitor business development of the core sector
(Creative Industries). Monitor emerging sectors and creative hubs. Monitor
tourism demand and supply in creative industries. Formulate and manage the
component’s resources against its strategic objectives: Ensure that the
preparations of the budget are in line with strategic plans & department
objectives. Ensure proper implementation of the budget by monitoring,
projecting & reporting expenditure. Ensure that spending is maximised in line
with the strategic objective. Manage Human Resources. Monitor and report on
the utilisation of equipment. Coordinate memorandum of understanding,
service level agreements and expenditure review.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Chettiar schettiar@tourism.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : email application: Recruitment4126@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Coloured and White candidates as well as People living with disabilities
are encouraged to apply.
98
OTHER POST
POST 20/108 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: OFFICE OF THE CFO REF NO: DT 42/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), excluding benefits.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Secretarial Diploma (NQF 6) or equivalent qualification. Three (3) years’
experience in rendering a support service to senior management. Skills and
Attributes: Knowledge of relevant legislation / policies / prescripts and
procedures. Basic knowledge of financial administration. Computer literate.
Basic written and communication skills. High level of reliability. Sound
organisational skills. Good telephone etiquette. Language skills and the ability
to communicate with people at different levels and different backgrounds.
Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good grooming and presentation. Self-
management and motivation.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for receiving telephone calls in an
environment where, in addition to the calls for the senior manager, discretion
is required to decide to whom the call should be forwarded; performing
advanced typing work; operating and ensuring that office equipment are in
good working order; recording engagements of the senior manager; utilising
discretion to decide whether to accept/ decline or refer to other employees
requests for meetings, based on the assessed importance and urgency of the
matter; coordinating with and sensitising/advising the manager regarding
engagements; compiling realistic schedules of appointments; ensuring the
effective flow of information and documents to and from the office of the
manager; ensuring the safekeeping of all documentation in the office of the
manager in line with relevant legislation and policies; scrutinising routine
submissions / reports and making notes and/or recommendations for the
manager; responding to enquiries received from internal and external
stakeholders; drafting documents as required; filling of documents for the
manager and the unit where required; collecting, analysing and collating
information requested by the manager; clarifying instructions and notes on
behalf of the manager; ensuring that travel arrangements are well coordinated;
prioritising issues in the office of the manager; managing the leave register and
telephone accounts for the unit; handling the procurement of standard items
like stationery, refreshments, etc., for the activities of the manager and the unit;
obtaining the necessary signatures on documents like procurement advice and
monthly salary reports; scrutinising documents to determine actions /
information / other documents required for meetings; collecting and compiling
all necessary documents for the manager to inform him/her on the content;
recording minutes/decisions and communicating to relevant role-players,
following up on progress made; preparing briefing notes for the manager as
required; collecting and coordinating all documents that relate to the manager’s
budget; assisting the manager in determining funding requirements for
purposes of MTEF submissions; keeping record of expenditure commitments,
monitoring expenditure, and alerting the manager of possible over- and
underspending; checking and correlating BAS reports to ensure that
expenditure is allocated correctly; identifying the need to move funds between
items, consults with the manager, and compiling draft memos for this purpose;
comparing the MTEF allocation with the requested budget and informing the
manager of changes; supervising human resources/ staff; remaining up to date
with regard to the prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to work terrain
to ensure efficient and effective support to the manager; remaining abreast with
the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Maponya mmaponya@tourism.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : email application: Recruitment4226@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE: Coloured and White candidates, Youth as well as People living with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
99
ANNEXURE S
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref
no. must appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided the application
may not be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources
Management, Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic
Campus, corner of Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside,
Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 30 June 2026
NOTE : The application must include a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications received
that do not comply with this requirement will not be considered. Certified copies
of qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
panel for Senior Management Services (SMS) positions will further recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency-based assessment.
The Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela Programme) as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) must be completed
before an appointment on SMS level can be considered. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. No
appointment on SMS level will take place without the successful completion of
the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. Background
verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part of the
selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. the dtic reserves the right not to fill any
advertised position(s). the dtic is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer, and candidates whose appointment will promote representivity, will
be given preference.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the following posts was advertised in Public
Service Vacancy Circular 18 dated 22 May 2026, Deputy Director: Public Entity
Performance Monitoring & Reporting Ref No: ODG 073; Senior Legal
Administration Officer (MR6) Ref No: CMSB-014 (X2 Posts); Assistant Director:
Investment Information Ref No: IIAF&A05; Assistant Director: America Bilateral
Relations Ref No: Trade-056 (X2 Posts); Assistant Director: Middle East
Bilateral Relations Ref No: Trade-05; Assistant Director: Multilaterals Ref No:
Trade-070; Executive Office Manager: Office of the Deputy Director-General
Ref No: Trade-003; B-BBEE Compliance And Advocacy Officer REF NO:
SID&ET-119 (X3 Posts; B-BBEE Investigations And Enforcement Officer Ref
No: SID&ET-117 (X2 Posts); Personal Assistant Ref No: CMSB-007; the
closing date has been extended to 17 June 2026.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/109 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO: CP&EP-
013
Overview: To lead the development and strategic implementation of investment
policies fostering sustainable growth through transformation and a competitive
market through regulatory coordination and private sector support
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by the SAQA in Business
Management / Investment / Finance / Economics / Competition Law or relevant
100
qualification. 5 years of senior managerial experience in Investment / Market
analysis / Finance in the private or public sector or regulatory environment. Key
Requirements: Senior managerial experience in investment, market analysis,
finance or regulatory environments. Experience in developing, reviewing and
monitoring policy frameworks and investment guidelines. Strong strategic
capability and leadership, with experience managing people, finances and
operational plans. Experience in stakeholder management with private sector,
regulators, government departments and industry bodies. Experience in
market access, competition integration, facilitation and barriers to-entry
interventions. Strong analytical, research and report-writing skills with ability to
produce evidence-based recommendations. Computer literacy (MS Office) and
project management experience; familiarity with regulatory frameworks and
public interest commitments. Willingness to travel and work overtime as
required; able to obtain the required security clearance.
DUTIES : Oversee the development, review, and monitor the implementation of Policy
Frameworks: Align domestic and international investment policy frameworks
with the Competition Act to promote market inclusivity; Draft and update
sectoral investment guidelines to reflect evolving global economic trends; Carry
out impact assessments on proposed policy changes to assess their effect on
small and medium enterprises (SMEs); Advise the dtic on aligning policies with
the Competition Act public interest commitments. Competition: Integration:
Collaborate with the Competition Commission to evaluate how large-scale
investments influence market concentration and verify adherence to the
Competition Act; Establish formal protocols for information sharing between
investment promotion units and competition regulators; Review and provide
strategic recommendations on merger proposals to ensure 100% alignment
with national industrial and transformation policy objectives; Review
Framework Agreements to support evolving policy on transformation. Barriers
to entry: Identify and address regulatory or market barriers that hinder new
private sector investment and domestic competition; Advise on the drafting of
competition-related legislative reforms that simplify licensing and permitting
processes for new market entrants; Design “re-tape reduction” initiatives to
streamline the investment journey for foreign and local entities; Advise the dtic
red-tape reduction team on competition-related reduction initiatives. Market
access and regulatory coordination: Facilitate investor engagement with
Competition Authority application processes by coordinating closely with
relevant competition authorities; Present investment opportunities to the IDC,
PIC, DBSA and NEF; Advise the dtic in the implementation of the Public
Interest Commitments Framework Agreements; Act as a mediator between
private investors and government departments to resolve cost-cutting
regulatory bottlenecks. Strategic Facilitation: Monitor global and domestic
investment trends to identify sectors requiring competitive intervention of
incentive-based support; Facilitate Public-Private sector joint investments that
support industrial localisations; Develop investment value propositions
specifically targeted at high-growth emerging industries; Actively participate in
the hosting of bilateral investment forums to connect international investors
with local industrial opportunities; Advise the dtic on the implementation of the
ESOP programme. Stakeholder and Inter-Governmental relations: Facilitate
engagements with key stakeholders, including regulators (Competition
Commission, Tribunal), other government departments, and industry bodies.
Represent the department at relevant policy, technical, and intergovernmental
forums Oversee consultations in negotiating merger remedies or public interest
conditions with multinational firms and investors; Facilitate alignment of South
Africa’s competition enforcement approach with regional/continental
frameworks (e.g. AfCFTA); Facilitate stakeholder buy-in and commitments in
merger negotiations, engage directly with firms to promote public interest
conditions. Chief Directorate Management: Oversee the management of
financial resources and assets of the unit; Oversee the management of staff;
Oversee the strategic planning of the unit and execution of the operational plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African male,
Coloured female and male, White male and persons with disabilities.
101
POST 20/110 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: COMPETITION OVERSIGHT REF NO: CP&EP-019
Overview: To oversee and manage the synergy between government
economic development policies and the function of competition authorities
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by the SAQA Law/ Finance/ Public
Management/ Economics or relevant qualification. 5 years’ experience at a
senior managerial level in an economic environment in the public/private
sector. Key Requirements: Senior managerial experience in economic,
regulatory or competition environments. Experience overseeing performance
monitoring, reporting and governance processes for entities or authorities.
Strong strategic leadership, financial management and people management
skills. Experience in policy development, implementation and regulatory
interventions. Stakeholder management with competition authorities,
NEDLAC, government entities and industry groups. Strong analytical, research
and report-writing skills, including evidence-based performance analysis.
Knowledge of the Competition Act and public service legislative and regulatory
frameworks. Ability to travel, work overtime and obtain the required secret
security clearance.
DUTIES : Provide strategic advice and report on the performance of the competition
authorities: Oversee the development and execution of compliance legislation
for the competition authorities; Oversee the analysis and report on competition
authorities' strategic plans, annual performance plans, quarterly and annual
reports; Provides leadership in coordinating that competition authorities uphold
principles of good corporate governance; Oversee the regular consultation and
reporting with competition authorities. Advise and report to the Minister on the
performance of competition authorities Manage the provision of advice to the
department on the regulatory interventions required to enhance accountability
and performance by the competition authorities: Lead and oversee effective
planning, budgeting, government, and financial management within the
competition authorities; Facilitate that the competition authorities' mandate
aligns with the priorities and mandate of the Department; Oversee and
coordinate that the competition authorities' delivery targets are aligned with the
Department’s APP and objectives; Oversee the development and review of
competition policies and legislative frameworks; Provide leadership on any
interventions to promote and support regulations, where applicable
Stakeholder management: Lead and strategically identify and foster
collaborations with various stakeholders (Competition authorities, other
government entities, NEDLAC, Advocacy, and Industry lobby groups); Provide
strategic guidance and advise, and facilitate the dtic’s inputs to ensure policy
coherence and alignment to promote the government’s policies amongst key
stakeholders; Oversee strategic engagements, forums, and bilateral meetings
to address competition oversight matters; Oversee consultation processes on
competition policy, market inquiries, and regulatory interventions; Oversee
communication of findings, decisions, and recommendations to relevant
stakeholders. Monitoring and evaluation: Oversee the development and
implementation of monitoring and evaluation frameworks for competition
oversight programmes, investigations, and interventions; Lead the monitoring
of compliance with competition legislations, regulations, and policy directives
across identified markets and sectors; Lead the evaluation of the effectiveness
and impact of competition enforcement actions and policy interventions;
Oversee and champion the development of evidence-based reports with
findings, trends, risks and recommendations for senior management and
oversight structures. Chief Directorate Management: Oversee the
staff/personnel, Oversee the management of financial resources and assets of
the Unit; Oversee the strategic planning of the Unit and execution of the
operation plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African male,
Coloured female and male, White male and persons with disabilities.
102
OTHER POST
POST 20/111 : INTERNAL AUDITOR: PERFORMANCE AUDIT REF NO: ODG-555
This post is being re-advertised with the corrected salary level and a revised
reference number. Candidates who are still interested to be considered must
please re-apply.
Overview: To independently assess management measures in place to ensure
Economy, Efficiency and Effectiveness of operations, and make
recommendations in this respect.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification in Internal Auditing, Accounting with majors in Auditing or
Accounting or related fields at NQF Level 6. 1–2 years in performance auditing
in the public/private sector. Key Requirements: Experience in conducting
performance audits and applying audit standards and methodologies. Ability to
gather and evaluate audit evidence, formulate findings and compile reports.
Strong understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations and performance
information auditing. Proficient in audit planning, execution, reporting, and
follow-up. Familiarity with SMART principles in performance planning and APP
evaluation. Attention to detail, analytical thinking and ability to communicate
audit results clearly. Proficiency in MS Office and electronic audit tools (e.g.
Teammate). Strong administrative and records management skills. Ability to
work independently and collaboratively within an audit team.
DUTIES : Prepare engagement documentation and analyse background information.
Identify focus areas, audit objectives and compile planning memos. Perform
control tests and compile working papers with audit evidence. Raise informal
queries and participate in audit fieldwork. Compile draft reports, obtain
comments, and follow up on audit findings. Participate in audit steering
committees and submit executive summaries. Assess APP planning and
evaluate quarterly/annual performance reporting. Submit accurate timesheets
and maintain audit files per the dtic standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African male,
Coloured female and male, Indian male, White male and persons with
disabilities.
103
ANNEXURE T
DEPARTMENT OF TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
positions with a candidate whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in the department’s Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be posted to: Human Resource Management, Department of
Traditional Affairs, Private Bag X22, Arcadia, 0083 or Hand deliver to: 509
Pretorius Street, Arcadia, 2nd Floor, Pencardia 1 Building or email to
DTARecruit202608@cogta.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Director: Human Resource Management
CLOSING DATE : 30 June 2026
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the NEW Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service department and
signed when submitted. From 1 January 2021 should an application be
received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), the application
will not be considered. Only shortlisted candidates will submit relevant
documents. Applicants should submit CV and Z83 only. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies a day before the interview date. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Persons with a disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA)
and to provide proof of such evaluation only when shortlisted. Incomplete
applications or applications received after the closing date will not be
considered. It is important to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to
ensure that all information and attachments in support of the application are
submitted by the due date. Due to the large number of responses anticipated,
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The department
reserves the right not to fill the advertised position.
OTHER POST
POST 20/112 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING & REPORTING REF NO:
2026/08
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive remuneration package. The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion that
may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three year Bachelor’s degree in Accounting or Financial Management or
equivalent qualification at NQF level 7 plus 5 years’ experience at junior
management / Assistant Director level with relevant experience in the financial
field. A valid driver’s licence. Core competencies: Strategic Capacity and
leadership, Financial Management, Programme and Project Management;
change management. Process Competencies: Knowledge management,
Service delivery innovation, Problem solving and analysis, People
management and empowerment, Client orientation and customer focus,
computer literacy and communication, Communication (Verbal and written).
Technical competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, General Accepted
Accounting Practices (GAAP), Basic Accounting System (BAS), PERSAL
system, General ledger reconciliation and analysis, compilation of financial
statements, revenue management and debtors control and creditors
payments.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Develop and
facilitate the review of financial accounting policies and internal controls.
Management Departmental revenue collection; debt management; bank
account and reconciliation of key accounts. Implementation of all accounting
and bookkeeping functions. Manage the Department’s expenditure and
104
payment systems. Render salary administration and cash flow management.
Render effective internal financial controls and implementation of financial
policies and procedures. Manage month-end and financial year closures and
payroll. Prepare Annual Financial Statements of the Department. Attend and
respond to audit queries and accounting queries by National Treasury. Manage
and supervision of officials. The successful candidate will also support the
National House of Traditional & Khoi-San Leaders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Motlhabedi Tel No: (012) 065-3440
105
ANNEXURE U
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 30 June 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It should be noted that the
National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. For SMS
positions certain candidates may be required to undergo additional
Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za .The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the following post of Data Analyst: Administrative
Data and Research with Ref No: S070/2026 was erroneously placed with a
requirement of minimum of 2 years’ experience obtained in an economic, data
analysis and research environment in Public Service Vacancy Circular 19
dated 05 June 2026, the correct requirement is minimum of 3 years’ experience
obtained in an economic, data analysis and research environment. The closing
date has been extended to 29 June 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday).
106
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/113 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: NATIONAL GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTS REF NO:
S072/2026
Division: Budget Office (BO)
Purpose: To provide accurate and reliable financial data related to the national
sphere of government for the analysis, policy formulation and reporting in
compliance with legislation, and local and international reporting standards, as
well as to provide advice to national departments on reporting standards.
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (Incl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required with a minimum of Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to
NQF Level 7) in Accounting or Public Finance or Economics or Business
Economics or Management. A Minimum 4 years’ experience is required of
which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained
in the budgeting process. Knowledge of utilising the economic reporting format,
and the International Monetary Funds’ Government Finance Statistics system
of classification. Knowledge of utilising the Microsoft Suite of products, with
emphasis on Excel spreadsheets.
DUTIES : Develop national departments’ financial outcome data sets as well as reporting
on departmental receipts: Administer the compilation of a database of annual
financial statement actual expenditure and receipts in line with accounting and
economic standards. Verify the data and prepare the relevant summaries.
Consolidate the preliminary receipts and outcome numbers for national
departments at year-end. Attend the monthly Section 32 meetings and discuss
any inconsistencies with the Office of the Accountant-General to ensure
correctness of data to be published. National department datasets and tables
for MTBPS, AENE, ENE and Budget Review: Compile datasets and tables
required for MTBPS, AENE, ENE and Budget Review. Compile a Departmental
receipts summary table for MTBPS and ENE. Develop and update ENE
checklist and analysis tool to verify the technical accuracy of the Budget
database. Prepare ENE summary tables. Reconcile national departments’
history data published by Statistics SA and SARB with the numbers published
in the Budget Review. Government statistics of all national departments for
inclusion in the budget publications: Do a trend analysis for the MTBPS and
Budget Review. Assist with the verification of the MTBPS and Budget Review
chapters in the week before publication. Analyse Budget databases and inform
budget analysts of inconsistencies. Arrange and attend weekly ENE Data
Central Team meetings and provide inputs. Reconcile all function shifts
between departments. Provide datasets for various cross cutting reporting and
planning projects.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 20/114 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TERTIARY SECTOR REF NO: S068/2026
Division: Economic Policy and International Cooperation (EPIC)
Purpose: To monitor, evaluate and provide advice on economic developments
in the tertiary sector, pertaining to provision of services to transport, finance,
tourism, etc. in the analysis of socio-economic impacts on industrial policy
proposals in conjunction with stakeholders in government.
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (Incl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) in Economics or Econometrics. An NQF level 7 to 10 will be an
added advantage. A minimum 4 years’ experience of which 2 years’ should be
on an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained in an economic policy
analysis environment. Knowledge and experience of applied microeconomics.
Knowledge and experience of the latest trends on research tools. Knowledge
and experience in the dissemination and interpretation of economic policy
outcomes.
DUTIES : Analysis of Research Findings: Compile impact reports on sector
developments in the tertiary sector and identifying through research
implications for the economy. Research and analyse factors that drive growth
in the tertiary sector for enhancement and engagement with stakeholders.
Initiate research and provide an in-depth analysis on the socio-economic
107
impact of industrial policy proposals for consultation prior to implementation,
thereof. Compile draft speaking notes and speeches based on research
conducted in developments on current affairs in the tertiary sector. Develop
databases of micro-economic and macro-economic indicators to assist in the
estimation and projection of future costs and benefits within the sector.
Provision of Policy Advice and Guidance: Provide inputs to draft briefing notes
and memos on real economy and industrial policy issues for consideration by
DG and Minister of Finance. Provide inputs into policy discussions and
documents for consultation with stakeholders. Provide inputs on real economic
and industrial policy matters developed in conjunction with other stakeholders
and represent National Treasury on stakeholder fora. Analysis, Benchmarking
and Research: Perform research and provide assistance with factors
influencing growth in the tertiary environment. Analyse research results on
economic developments and initiating benchmarking exercises in line with
international institutional best practices and trends. Perform market analysis
on the feasibility of the provision of services pertaining to transport, finance,
and other stakeholders. Engage stakeholders within the tertiary sectors on
policies which influence the economy. Project Management Support: Provide
inputs to project plans and coordinate projects on the financial feasibility impact
of the tertiary sectors. Develop measures on the safekeeping of information
pertaining to expenditure commitments and monitoring trends within the tertiary
sectors.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 20/115 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: COMMITTEE SUPPORT REF NO: S076/2026
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To coordinate effective communication, administrative support and
seamless management of organisational tasks related to management
meetings within the Office of the Director-General.
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (Incl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent to NQF
Level 06) in Public Administration or Business Management. A Bachelor’s
degree (equivalent to NQF Level 7) will be an added advantage. A minimum of
4 years’ experience of which 2 years should be on an Assistant Director level
or equivalent obtained in the management and administration of an executive
office. Knowledge and experience of the broader Public Service Policy
Framework pertaining to finance and human resource related practices. In-
depth knowledge and experience of the operational set-up of an executive
office. Knowledge and experience of policy analysis and interpretation.
DUTIES : Strategic Administrative Coordination: Management of the committees’
schedules, organisation of meetings, compiling and assembling of
documentation for the meetings, and maintaining accurate records. Facilitating
effective communication channels. Assist with proof reading and quality control
of documents submitted for documentation submitted for presentation at
committee meetings. Coordination and oversight of committee decisions to
ensure that organisational goals are met. Provide research if required related
to matters addressed to assist with recommendations for further actions.
Budget Coordination: Assist budget manager with the collation of budgetary
documents for processing in conjunction with stakeholders to determine the
required funding for the MTEF cycle. Provide inputs to expenditure
commitments and advice on possible under or overspending. Facilitate the
electronic maintenance and procurement. Legislation, Policies and Prescripts:
Apply the correct prescripts and other legislation in compliance with prescribed
policies and procedures. Initiate the implementation of cost containment
measures in compliance with directives and prescripts. Keep abreast of
changes to procedures, policies and processes. Stakeholder Engagement and
Projects: Coordinate projects in conjunction internal stakeholders involved in
the planning, development and implementation.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
108
ANNEXURE V
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 30 June 2026
NOTE : Other related documentation such as copies of qualifications, identity
document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany the application when
applying for a post as such documentation must only be produced by
shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA circular 19 of
2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or occupational
registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be completed as
these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or disclose all
required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No late
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Candidates will be required
to complete a financial disclosure form and undergo security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must provide a police clearance
certificate from country of origin (only when shortlisted). The Department of
Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts,
the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996
(Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the
Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
hear from us within three (3) months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications will not be
considered. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/116 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL: WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF
NO: 300626/01
Branch: Water Resource Management
SALARY : R1 885 710 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Postgraduate qualification (NQF level 8) in Water Resource Management.
Eight (8) years of experience at a senior managerial level. A Nyukela Public
Service SMS Pre-entry certificate submitted prior to appointment. Knowledge
and understanding of Public Service Regulations, National Water Act, Water
Services Act, National Water Resources Strategy, Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA) and Access to Information Act. Knowledge of human resources
policies and prescripts. Understanding of corporate governance, scientific
research methodologies and scientific standards. Knowledge of strategic
capability and leadership. Understanding of programme and project
management. Understanding of financial, change and knowledge
management. Service delivery and innovation. Problem solving and analysis.
People management and empowerment. Client orientation and customer
focus. Excellent communication skills both (verbal and written). Accountability
and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Oversee the development and maintenance of the National Water Resource
Strategy and plan for adequate water resource availability. Monitor and support
the implementation of the National Water Resource Strategy and catchment
109
management strategies. Lead the strategic direction in monitoring and
providing water resource information. Oversee the establishment,
maintenance and monitoring of surface and ground water information. Oversee
the development and implementation of measures for protection and
conservation of water resources. Provide strategic direction in the source
directed research. Oversee the establishment, monitoring and support of
entities responsible for water resource management. Lead the development of
policies, strategies and systems to drive strategic deliverables within the
Branch.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Sean Phillips Tel No: (012) 336 7573
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/117 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: 300626/03
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Head Office
CD: Infrastructure Development
Dir: Capital Projects
SALARY : R1 317 108 – R1 504 797 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive OSD salary
package). This appointment will be made on the minimum notch of the salary
range, however, a higher notch within the salary range of Grade A/B will be
considered based on experience and qualification in line with the provisions of
the Public Service Regulations 2016, i.e. provision of the candidate’s current
salary advice.
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An Engineering Degree (B Eng / BSc Eng) in Civil or relevant qualification. Six
(6) years post qualification experience. Compulsory registration with
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s licence. Registration with the South
African Council for Project and Construction Management Professions
(SACPCMP) as a Professional Construction Project Manager (Pr. CPM) or a
Project Management Professional Certification (PMP) with the Project
Management Institute (PMI) will serve as an added advantage. Minimum of ten
(10) years’ experience in the planning, design, and construction of water
resources infrastructure projects will serve as an added advantage.
Understanding of the complete project life cycle from initial planning stages
through to completion. Extensive experience in project management especially
in the project management of large infrastructure projects will be beneficial.
Extensive contract management experience. A detailed understanding of
construction procurement processes. Sound knowledge of construction law
contracts such as GCC, FIDIC and NEC. Detailed knowledge of Treasury
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Experience in financial
planning and financial management. Knowledge of project risk analysis and
risk management. The ability to relate with associated professional field in a
multi-disciplinary team. Additional studies in Water Resources Engineering are
recommended. High-level communication skills both (verbal and written).
Conflict management, contract dispute resolution, and negotiation skills.
Problem solving and analysis skills. Computer proficiency (such as MS Office,
MS Projects, etc). Ability to work independently, and be self-motivated,
responsible, and reliable.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee all aspects of project implementation. Coordinate the
implementation of a portfolio of mega-projects. The Chief Engineer’s
responsibilities span a broad spectrum, covering all areas of project
management including planning, cost and time management, quality
management, contract administration and management, risk management,
social aspects, stakeholder management (internal and external),
environmental and safety management. The Chief Engineer will be required to
ensure that the project is technically sound, that all activities associated with
managing the project workflow and performance are met and to provide the
necessary management and leadership skills to ensure the project team deliver
including the provision of leadership and performance management of
subordinates. Coordinate water users, institutions, and stakeholders’ input for
decision-making on infrastructure projects. Promote the Department’s interests
in projects implemented by external bodies. Ensure compliance with legal
requirements, timeframes and approved budgets during the project
implementation. Manage the commissioning and takeover of the infrastructure.
110
Ensure good work ethic Promote transformation. Promote a culture of
innovation and performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Moodley Tel No: (012) 336 6929
POST 20/118 : DEPUTY PROJECT MANAGER REF NO: 300626/04
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management EC
CD: Provincial Operations: Eastern Cape
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level12), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Qonce
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant qualification in Civil Engineering at NQF level 7 with a certificate in
project management. Five (5) years of managerial experience in engineering
project management environment. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Understanding of contract administration, business principles and
business law. A broad understanding of each engineering discipline. Computer
skills: Microsoft Office Software (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint), Lotus
Notes, and other Company and discipline-specific software applications.
Financial Management. Programme and project management. Knowledge of
policy development and implementation. Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Division of Revenue Act (DoRA), National Water Act. (NWA), Water
Services Act (WSA) and related legislation. Understanding of legislative and
policy frameworks governing the water sector. Understanding of legislative and
policy frameworks governing the public sector. Good communication,
presentations, report writing, and networking skills. Accountability and ethical
conduct. Knowledge of Conflict Management tools and methodologies.
DUTIES : Provide support in the implementation of water services infrastructure grant
programmes. Ensure co-ordination and analysis of strategic inputs and budget
planning. Preparation of the implementation plan and project costing. Facilitate
various water sector consultations on water issues. Ensure the needs of
business sectors are catered for in the water service infrastructure grant
programmes. Implement water policies for water services infrastructure grants
programmes in the Provincial Operations. Research/literature on new
developments in project management methodologies. Monitor technical due
diligence and all environmental and social issues. Render technical advisory
support on the integrated Infrastructure Planning Processes. Make inputs with
the Assessment on the integrated Infrastructure planning processes.
Formulation of the project objective(s) and strategic alignment. Support the
development and evaluation of the Implementation Readiness Study reports,
Feasibility Studies, and Business Plans for water infrastructure grant
programmes by all water sectors. Full project management function, costs,
quality, and time control. Contribute inputs to the development of project
planning in the design and/or testing phases. (Project initiation, project scope,
activities and objectives, measures to be evaluated to ensure completion.
Facilitate the development and implementation of policies and frameworks.
Promote partnership between the government, public entities, the private
sector, and civil society regarding the water services infrastructure grant
programme. Participates in the Collaborative process with other public sector
agencies and the private sector to ensure effective consultation and inclusion
regarding bulk infrastructure programmes. Ensure water supply availability for
all business sectors. Avail raw water supply for all municipalities. Consultations
on water issues are communicated with all key stakeholders and various water
sectors. Needs of business sectors catered for on bulk infrastructure
programme. Manage the water services infrastructure, grant programmes,
budget planning, monitoring, and reporting. Assure that water services
infrastructure grant programmes are budgeted for in medium term expenditure
framework. Compile budget for building water services infrastructure grant
programmes. Ensure that budgeted funds are used efficiently and effectively.
Develop and implement early warning management system. Ensuring
adherence to financial prescripts, monitoring compliance with financial
regulations, Ensure effective monthly and quarterly reporting, and information
dissemination. Effectively manage the MTEF project budget and ensure
ongoing monitoring and reporting of financial performance. Monitor and
evaluate the implementation of all water services infrastructure development
programmes. Regularly review the quality of work completed to ensure
standards are met. Conduct regular visits to ensure that project deliverables
are on time, within budget, and meet the required quality standards. Monitoring
and Evaluation Assessment reports on budget and expenditure outcomes are
111
affirmed through physical verification of infrastructure Projects Develop forms
and records to document and file project activities and ensure that project
information is appropriately documented and secured. Monitor project and
programme progress and make necessary adjustments to ensure successful
project completion. Establish a communication schedule to update
stakeholders, including appropriate staff in the organization, on project
progress. Management of resources. Human resources, Work allocation,
discipline, performance management. Equipment, Recommendation,
allocation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Nonjuzana Tel No: (043) 604 5413
POST 20/119 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
300626/05
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth (Gqeberha)
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 in Supply Chain Management or
relevant qualification. Three (3) years related supply chain management
supervisory experience. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license.
Understanding of Supply Chain Management policies and procedures,
principles and practice of financial accounting. Practical experience in SAP
system with computer literacy skills. Must be able to work under pressure, be
self-motivated, responsible, and reliable. Behavioural competencies: people
and diversity management. Client orientation and customer focus. Efficient
communication skills both (verbal and written). Accountability and ethical
conduct. Knowledge and understanding of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework
(PPPFA and all applicable SCM guidelines, policies, practices, and procedures.
Knowledge of equal opportunities and affirmative action guidelines and laws.
Knowledge of administrative clerical procedures and government financial
systems. Knowledge of learning, teaching procedures and techniques.
Framework for managing performance information. Knowledge of
implementing policies of PMDS. Problem solving and Analysis. People and
diversity management. Client orientation and customer focus. Accountability
and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Coordinate, review, research, analyse and plan the procurement needs of the
Cluster. Coordinate, review, collect and gather information for the annual
demand management plan/procurement plan of the Cluster. Manage and
review specifications received from end users. Implement and maintain the
updating of the vendor data on SAP. Coordinate, review and execute the
bidding process. Coordinate and review the compilation and invitation of
quotations from Central Supplier Database as per the National Treasury
Thresholds. Serve as the secretariat for all Cluster Bids & Specification
Committees. Manage, supervise, monitor, analyse and determine actions to
ensure proper contract administration. Manage, supervise, monitor contract
compliance by determining whether products/services are delivered at the right
time, quantity, products, place, conditions, quality, and price according to the
contract. Manage, supervise and monitor supplier performance according to
the contract and Service Level agreement. Coordinate and review the process
of requisition of goods and services. Coordinate the safe keeping and
distribution of goods. Manage and supervise employees to ensure an effective
Supply Chain Management service and undertake all administrative functions
required regarding financial and HR administration. Control and safeguard all
Supply Chain documentation. Supervise and undertake risk management
assessments. Manage, supervise and implement fraud and abuse prevention
strategy for SCM. Manage and supervise performance assessment of the
value chain in SCM function. Participate in the development of risk and
performance management policies processes and procedures. Manage assets
within the section. Ensure and assist staff with development and training
needs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Khan Tel No: (041) 508 9700
112
POST 20/120 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDITOR REF NO: 300626/06
Branch: Director-General
CD: Internal Audit
Dir: Forensic Investigations and Quality Assurance
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Accounting / Auditing (Internal or External
Auditing /Forensic Investigations/ Fraud Examination) / LLB Degree (forensic
stream). Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience in Auditing/ Forensic
Investigations. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. A post
graduate qualification in Auditing/Investigations/Forensic Auditing or
certification as a CFE, CIA, CA, FP(SA) will serve as an added advantage.
Sound knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance Management Act,
Treasury Regulations, Generally Recognised Accounting Principles (GRAP),
Protected Disclosures Act (PDA), Prevention Organised Crimes Act (POCA),
Protection of Access to information Act (PAIA), Public Service Anti-Corruption
Strategy and Anti- Corruption and Fraud Prevention measures and other public
service legislative framework. Computer Literacy. Efficient communication
skills both (Written and Verbal). Presentation and analytical skills. People
Management. Problem solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer
focus. Administrative, clerical procedures and systems. Knowledge of
government financial systems. Willingness and ability to travel. Willingness to
work long/extended hours.
DUTIES : Conduct fraud awareness campaigns. Conduct forensic investigations on
assigned cases in compliance with the approved forensic investigations
methodology and ACFE standards. Report on investigation results accordingly.
Represent the Department by testifying in disciplinary, criminal or civil recovery
proceedings when required. Supervise and review the work of forensic
investigation teams. Provide guidance on investigative approach to forensic
investigations teams. Monitor forensic investigation teams’ work progress
ensuring compliance with project timelines. Prepare, consolidate and keep
investigation progress/status reports up to date for monthly and quarterly
reporting to management and relevant committees. Follow-up on
implementation of investigation recommendations. Liaise with other
directorates and law-enforcement agencies on referred matters. Ensure
constant update of Team-mate files and compliance with Quality Assurance
standards/requirements. Ensure proper case administration on the Team-mate
audit system. Provide input and contribute to the development and
implementation of the Department’s Fraud Prevention and Anti-Corruption
strategy. Assist the Directorate with Financial management, management of
Human Resources, Project Management and Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SR Toto Tel No: (012) 336 8228
POST 20/121 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (TENDER
ADMINISTRATION) REF NO: 300626/07
Branch: Finance Main Account
CD: Supply Chain Management
Dir: Acquisition
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Supply Chain Management, Purchasing
Management, Logistics Management, Public Management, Procurement, or
related qualification. Three (3) years relevant Supply Chain Management
experience at supervisory level in Acquisition Management. The disclosure of
a valid unexpired driver’s licence. Knowledge and understanding of Human
Resource Management legislation, policies, practices, and procedures.
Understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations, and guidelines. Public Service Anti-Corruption Strategy and anti-
corruption and fraud prevention measures. Knowledge of equal opportunities
and affirmative action guidelines and laws. Knowledge of administrative and
clerical procedures and systems. Departmental policies and procedures.
Governmental financial systems. Principles and practice of financial
accounting. Knowledge of Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act 53
of 2003. Knowledge of National Treasury CSD system and e-tender portal.
Framework for managing performance information. Business strategy
113
transaction and alignment. Problem solving and analysis. People and diversity
management. Client orientation and customer focus. Efficient communication
skills, accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Allocate duties and perform quality control and compliance on the work
delivered by supervisees. Advise and lead supervisees with regard to all
aspects of the work. Coordinate (synergise), review and execute the bidding
process. Provide secretariat services to the Bid Evaluation Committee and Bid
Adjudication Committee (includes obtaining approval). Review the terms of
reference received from Demand Management for accuracy and completeness
before assigning them to a practitioner for advertisement. Invite service
providers for an expression of interest. Manage the end-to-end bidding process
(above R1 million), from invitation to award, including reports, requests
processed through deviations and those sourced from the departmental panel
of service providers, irrespective of the threshold. Perform quality check/control
on all submissions from the Tender unit. Supervise employees to ensure an
effective acquisition management service and undertake all administrative
functions required with regard to financial and HR administration. Ensure that
all supervisees are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the
required standard efficiently and effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mokoni Tel No: (012) 336 6829
POST 20/122 : SENIOR OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY OFFICER REF NO:
300626/08
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Uitkeer (somerset East)
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Occupational Health and Safety. Three
(3) to four (4) years’ experience in Occupational Health and Safety
environment. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge
and understanding of the OHS Act 85 of 1993 and related regulations and
policies. Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act 30 of 1993.
Understanding of government legislation. Good planning and organizational
skills. Computer proficiency (MS Office, Word, Ms Excel, MS PowerPoint and
Outlook). Good analytical and problem-solving skills. Presentation and
facilitation skills. Creativity and innovative skills, self-motivation and
assertiveness. Ability to function under pressure and handle high work volume.
Ability to plan and prioritize work. Ability to work independently. Accountability
and ethical code. Attention to details. Good communication skills both (verbal
and written).
DUTIES : Promote safe and healthy environment through monitoring and management
of occupational health and safety risks within the office. Conduct occupational
health and safety inspections and audits. Coordinate incident reporting and
preliminary investigations. Oversee facility compliance with relevant
occupational health and safety requirements, legislation, codes of practice,
standards, and norms. Maintain compliance documentation. Facilitate
establishment of OHS committee and ensure functionality thereof. Train
employees and render an advisory role to the employer on OHS matters.
Ensure effective administration of occupational health and safety activities.
Prepare monthly and quarterly reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. SF Cannon Tel No: (042) 243 6150 / (063) 500 6215
POST 20/123 : SENIOR SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER (SCM ACQUISITION:
QUOTATIONS) REF NO: 300626/09
Branch: Finance Main Account
CD: Supply Chain Management
Dir: Acquisition
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification (National Diploma) in Supply Chain Management
/ Purchasing Management / Public Administration / Procurement / Financial
Management or relevant qualification. Three (3) years’ experience in Supply
Chain Acquisition Management. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
licence. Knowledge of procurement administration procedure. Knowledge of
financial legislation. Knowledge of BAS, SAP, and GAAP. Knowledge of PFMA,
114
PPPFA and BBEE Policy. Knowledge of supply chain management. Knowledge
of procurement policies and legislation. Disciplinary knowledge of labour law.
Knowledge of treasury regulations. Knowledge of dispute resolution policies.
Understanding Social and Economic development issues. Basic Financial
Management. Knowledge Management. Problem solving and analysis. People
and diversity management. Client orientation and customer focus. Efficient
communication skills, accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Review the acquisition and demand procedures for efficiency and compliance.
Perform various SCM duties in accordance with legislative prescripts
applicable in the Public Service. Receive approved specifications/Terms of
References (TORs) for invitation of quotations. Review the terms of
reference/specifications received from Demand Management for accuracy and
completeness before assigning them to a practitioner for invitation of
quotations. Issue out requests for quotations when required. Adhere to relevant
policies and regulations in the procurement of goods and services. Provide
support in Acquisition management. Review and approve the recommended
supplier. Update the spreadsheet with details of the winning supplier on regular
basis with information on, QSE, EME and Transformation status of companies.
Compilation /verification of all monthly SCM reports. Manage the process of
sourcing of quotations up to R1 000 000.Tracking and addressing supply chain
risks and performance. Support in developing SCM risk management
assessments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mokoni Tel No: (012) 336 6829
POST 20/124 : SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER REF NO: 300626/10
Branch: Finance Main Account
CD: Supply Chain Management
Dr: Acquisition
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 qualification (National Diploma) in Supply Chain Management
/ Purchasing Management / Public Administration / Procurement / Financial
Management or relevant qualification. One (1) year experience in Supply Chain
Acquisition Management. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s licence.
Knowledge of procurement administration procedure. Knowledge of financial
legislation. Knowledge of BAS, SAP and GAAP. Knowledge of PFMA, PPPFA
and BBEE Policy. Knowledge of supply chain management. Knowledge of
procurement policies and legislation. Disciplinary knowledge of labour law.
Knowledge of treasury regulations. Knowledge of dispute resolution policies.
Understanding Social and Economic development issues. Basic Financial
Management. Knowledge Management. Problem solving and analysis. People
and diversity management. Client orientation and customer focus. Efficient
communication skills, accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Render supply chain demand and acquisition Processes. Follow relevant
policies and regulations in procurement activities. Facilitate the procurement of
goods and services through formal tender process. Provide a Secretarial
support function to Bid-Committees. Provide administrative duties during the
tender/bid briefing sessions. Assist with the tender compilation of bid
documents and confirm if it is in line with applicable SCM prescripts and
processes. Provide assistance in the review of the scope of the Terms of
Reference (TOR). Assist with the monitoring of validity period of closed
tenders. Assist in the co-ordination and execution of the bidding process-:
Arrange and attend bid Evaluation committee meeting. Prepare register for
bidders. Check the compliance with SCM prescripts and processes. Respond
to specific queries during the tender/bid briefing sessions. Open bid documents
and check the responsiveness and non-responsiveness of documents.
Prepare scoring model/tender recommendation and evaluation reports.
Preparation/ screening of recommendation for Adjudication. Render
administrative services to supply chain Acquisition Management. Assist in
implementation of SCM policies, processes, and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mokoni Tel No: (012) 336 6829
115
POST 20/125 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 300626/11
Branch: Infrastructure Management
CD: Construction Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. Three (3) to five (5) years
‘experience in rendering a support service to Senior Management. Excellent
computer literacy skills. Advanced proficiency in Microsoft Office suite. Good
office management skills and knowledge of administrative procedures. Sound
organizational skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability. Ability to act
with tact and discretion. Ability to research and analyse documents and
situations. Good grooming and presentation skills. Self-management and
motivation. Knowledge of dispute resolution process. Knowledge of basic
financial management. People and Diversity management. Problem solving
and Analysis. The successful candidate must be highly reliable, self-motivated,
flexible, creative, client and customer focused. Remains up to date regarding
the prescripts, policies and procedures applicable to her / his work terrain to
ensure efficient and effective support to the manager. Excellent communication
skills (verbal and written). Good accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial / receptionist support service to the manager. Implement
administrative procedures for the component. Receive telephone calls and
visitors on behalf of the manager. Implement policies and procedures. Engage
supplier regarding purchased materials. Develop implementation plan. Ensure
that financial procedures are observed in the section. Compile monthly reports
and present to the managers. Do early warning systems. Liaise with travel
agencies to make travel arrangements for the DDG office. Arrange meetings
and events for the manager and staff in the unit. Process all invoices that
emanate from the activities of the work of the manager including the travel and
subsistence claims for the unit. Draft routine correspondence and reports
including records of basic minutes of the meetings of the manager where
required. Administer matters like leave registers and telephone accounts and
proper filing of documents. Receive, record and distribute all incoming and
outgoing documents. Collect all relevant documents to enable the manager to
prepare for meetings. Provide feedback on identified administrative gaps.
Provide records on goods and services procured and handle all the
procurement items for the office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Maraka Tel No: (012) 336 7073
POST 20/126 : CHIEF SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 300626/12
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Vaal Dam
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 4 or Senior/Grade 12 Certificate. A valid Security Grade
A PSIRA Certificate. National Diploma in Security Management will serve as
an added advantage. National Key Point Certificate, A valid SAPS Firearm
Competency for Rifle, Shotgun and Pistol. Three (3) years’ supervisory
experience in the NKP environment will serve as an added advantage. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Computer literacy and skills in
MS Office Software package. Knowledge of prescribed security legislation e.g.
MISS, Protection of Information Act, etc. Knowledge and experience of
emergency procedures. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety. Sound
knowledge in interpretation and application of security code of conduct,
security legislations and directives. Good listing, communication, and
interpersonal skills. Ability to interact with people at all levels and work in a
team environment. Analytical thinking. Problem-solving and analysis. Ability to
handle conflicts and excellent report writing skills. Work under pressure,
willingness to travel throughout the Area Office and work extended hours.
DUTIES : Implement security polices in line with relevant acts and national directives as
determined. Monitor threats and risk analysis Ensure firearm regulation is
implemented accordingly. Manage deployment and the functioning of security
operations. Implement emergency contingency and procedures. Conduct site
inspections on official residence and offices. Safeguard Departmental assets.
Conducts investigations of security incidents and breaches. Liaise with
116
National Intelligence Agency (NIA), South African Police Services (SAPS),
other security agencies and DWS National Security Manager Coordinate
security awareness and training Ensure the safe custody and protection of
officials, assets and information through the implementation and adherence to
the MISS/MPSS. Supervision of human resources. Manage and evaluate staff
performance on an on-going basis. Manage private security service provider’s
contracts. Provide operational and administrative assistance regarding security
activities, forums, training, vetting, risk assessments and security reports.
Conduct investigations where necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. CM Mokone Tel No: (016) 880 0919
NOTE : Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test.
POST 20/127 : WATER PLANT SUPERINTENDENT (TEAM LEADER) REF NO: 300626/13
(X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R280 278 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Berg River Dam
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 4 qualification. Five (5) years’ experience in water infrastructure
operations and maintenance environment. The disclosure of a valid unexpired
driver’s license. Knowledge of operation and maintenance of pump stations,
pipelines, dams, reservoirs, and associated infrastructure. Knowledge of
Occupational Health and Safety Act, National Water Act, and relevant
government legislation. Experience in supervision of staff and implementation
of maintenance programmes. Understanding of water distribution systems,
flood control, and emergency response procedures. Computer literacy and
ability to compile operational reports. Effective communication skills both
(written and verbal). Leadership, problem-solving, and interpersonal skills.
Ability to work shifts, overtime, and standby duties.
DUTIES : Coordinate and supervise the operation and maintenance of pump stations,
dams, pipelines, reservoirs, and associated infrastructure. Monitor plant and
infrastructure performance to ensure uninterrupted operations. Coordinate
preventative and corrective maintenance activities. Supervise operational staff,
manage attendance, discipline, and performance. Ensure implementation of
Occupational Health and Safety standards and legal compliance. Compile
operational and maintenance reports. Conduct inspections and report
infrastructure defects. Possess good administrative skills. Participate in
emergency response and flood control activities. Maintain asset records,
maintenance schedules and ensure proper housekeeping, and security at
facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Tom Tel No: (023) 348 5600
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the Geographical Area.
POST 20/128 : SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR REF NO: 300626/14
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Breede / Gouritz (Worcester – Western Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 Certificate. Knowledge of administrative and clerical
procedure. Knowledge of word processing. Operate telecommunication
system. Report faulty telephone system and other extensions within the
organisation. Managing files and records. Understanding of Public Service
Regulations. Telephone etiquette and interpersonal skills. Knowledge in
operating telecom operations. Framework for managing telephone etiquette.
Problem solving and analysis. People and diversity management. Client
orientation and customer focus. Effective communication skills both (verbal and
written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Render switchboard services. Attend to incoming and outgoing telephone calls.
Maintain switchboard system. Transfer calls to relevant extensions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Horn Tel No: (023) 348 5600
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the Geographical Area.
117
POST 20/129 : AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBER (ICT SPECIALIST) REF NO: 300626/02
(03 Year Contract)
SALARY : The compensation of members of the Audit Committee Members is determined
at an hourly tariff based on South Africa Institute of Chartered Accountants
(SAICA) / Auditor General South Africa (AGSA) rates.
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year qualification at NQF 7 in any of the following fields:
Information and Communication Technology (ICT)/ Legal/ Risk Management/
Accounting and Auditing. (A higher qualification will serve as an added
advantage). Applicants should have executive management experience in the
audit, governance and risk management for more than ten (10) years.
Preference will be given to someone with ICT experience. Previous Audit
Committee and/or oversight committees experience (mainly in Public Sector).
Relevant work experience in Accounting, Internal Audit, Governance, Legal,
Information and Communication Technology, Performance Management and
Risk Management. Knowledge of the Water Sector and legislation governing
the Water Sector will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge of the PFMA
and the Public Sector will serve as an advantage. Must possess the following
qualities: An enquiring and analytical mind-set; Good communication skills;
independence and integrity; and an understanding of the regulatory framework
within which National Departments operate within the Public Sector.
DUTIES : The audit committee is an advisory committee that assists the department by
performing oversight in respect of internal controls, risk management and
governance processes. The committee reports to the Executive Authority on a
quarterly basis. The committee carries out its responsibilities as legislated by
the Public Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations and operates
according to the approved Audit Committee Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Motsatsi Tel No: (012) 336 7905 / (082) 610 9861
NOTE : Preference will be given to a woman and person with a disability. In terms of
Section 77 of the Public Finance Management Act, Act No. 1 of 1999 (PFMA),
the Department of Water and Sanitation calls for qualified and interested
person to serve on its Audit Committee for a three-year period.
118
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted strictly online, applicants should quote the
relevant reference number and submit through the following email address:
TMRH.Vacancies@gauteng.gov.za No hand-delivered, faxed applications will
be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 30 June 2026
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the completed CV and new updated
Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each (Z83)
application for employment must be fully completed, initialled, and signed by
the applicant as per Circular no 3 of 2025. Failure to complete will lead to
disqualification during the selection process. Section A, B, C and D must be
completed in full. Section E, F and G: Noting that there’s a limited space
provided applicants often indicate “refer to Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see
attached” after having completed to the maximum the actual Z83, this is
acceptable - If the CV has been attached and provides the required
information. On the CV all experience should be in a chronological order
indicating the employer, position and employment period. On the CV indicate
the starting and ending period (DD/MM/YYYY). CV must have details of name
of attended schools/institutions and area. The Information on the new Z83 must
be in sync with the Curriculum Vitae. (Reference checks)- Provide at least 3 off
which one must be immediate supervisor, the Department shall reserve the
right to conduct verification beyond names provided, where necessary. Failure
to submit all the relevant information preceding the statement above will result
in disqualifying the candidate. The question that relates to conditions that
prevents re-appointment under part F must be answered. Declaration must be
completed and signed). Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on or before the
day of the interview. Please ensure that the specific reference number is
quoted correctly. Only emailed applications will be considered.
Correspondence will be entered with shortlisted candidates only. If you have
not been contacted within three (3) months after closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
employer reserves the right not to fill this post. It is legislative requirement that
all newly appointed staff members be subjected to and pass Personnel
Suitability Check (PSC) - Verification, upon appointment within the department.
This verification processes entails reference checks, identity verification,
qualification verification, criminal records checks etc. Candidates in possession
of a foreign qualification must furnish the Department with an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when
shortlisted). The recommended candidate may be subjected to medical
surveillance as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act 5/1993. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/130 : HEAD OF UNIT (HOU) REF NO: TMRH/AHOU/06/2026 (X1 POST)
Directorate: Anaesthesia
SALARY : Grade 1: R2 168 145 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
Grade 2: R2 370 741 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Thelle Mogoerane Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Appropriate postgraduate qualification that allows for registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist. A minimum of 3 years appropriate
experience as Specialist Anesthetist after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist in Anaesthetic. Outstanding clinical skills in the field
preferably in the public service environment. Experience in undergraduate and
postgraduate training, including research. Understanding of basic Human
119
Resource matters including labour relations and ORW. Understanding of basic
Finance matters such as cost drivers and budget allocations. Knowledge of
relevant health & labour legislation. Proven leadership skills. Understanding of
basic Supply Chain matters such as developing demand and procurement
plans for the unit. Knowledge of legislative prescripts governing public service.
Managerial and problem-solving skills. Good communication and supervisory
skills. Stress-tolerance and the ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : Assist the clinical manager with management and administrative duties within
the anaesthetic department, and participate in hospital committees and
Departmental activities. Teaching and training at an undergraduate and post
graduate level. Supervision and delivery of anaesthesia services at Thelle
Mogoerane Regional Hospital and its cluster as appropriate. Engagement in
outreach activities of the department. Human capital management and other
administrative duties as allocated. Participation in the research and publication
agenda of the academic department. Comply with the Performance
Management and Development System (Contracting, reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Dr. D. Mdluli Tel No: (011) 891 7000
POST 20/131 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: PSYCHIATRY REF NO: TMRH/MSPSYCH/06/2026
(X1 POST)
Directorate: Psychiatry Department
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Thelle Mogoerane Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a medical specialist in
psychiatry. Master of Medicine in Psychiatry (MMedPsych) and or a Fellowship
of the College of Psychiatrists of South Africa (FCPsychSA). The ability to
teach, train, do research and supervise research for academic degree
purposes. Willingness to teach and train undergraduate and postgraduate
students and other health care workers. Grade 1: experience not applicable,
registration with HPCSA as Medical Specialist Psychiatry. Grade 2: 5 years
appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 3: 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry.
DUTIES : Management of psychiatry at Thelle Mogoerane Regional Hospital in the
provision of clinical care to mental health care users, teaching of under- and
post-graduate students. Manage own service delivery. Clinical service delivery:
evaluation, management, care, treatment and rehabilitation of mental health
care users in an acute psychiatric unit in a general hospital setting as well as
outreach services where appropriate. Ensure patient care is promoted to meet
the National Core Standards for health, Batho Pele Principles and the Mental
Health Care Act, 17 of 2002, and other relevant medico-legal regulations,
aligning the needs of the population served with facilities in the hospital.
Supervision of a multi-disciplinary group of mental health care providers and
other relevant staff members. Manage and run the Specialist Psychiatry
Outpatients Clinic. Lead the multi-disciplinary ward rounds for in-patients.
Consultations for patients outside the psychiatry unit. Review and audit
patients’ medical records. Administration: Perform administrative tasks related
to patient management and student training. Address patient complaints.
Attend scheduled meetings with hospital management. Contribute to electronic
databases for research purposes. Coordinate duty lists and staff allocations in
the department. Ensure recruitment and retention of staff in the department.
Liaise with other departments and with other hospitals, district mental health
services where required. Academic: Provision of teaching and learning to
ensure that both under- and post graduate students are taught the required
skills and are provided with opportunities to learn in a safe environment. Assist
in coordination of academic programs. Conduct appropriate research: Develop
own interest and publish appropriately. Support post-graduate students with
research projects. Be willing to undergo continuous training and development
programs. Attend meetings and training as approved by supervisor. Comply
with the Performance Management and Development System (Contracting,
reviews and final assessment).
120
ENQUIRIES : Dr. N. Sibisi Tel No: (011) 891 7000
POST 20/132 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (PHYSYCIAN) – CRITICAL CARE REF NO:
TMRH/MSCC/06/2026 (X1 POST)
Directorate: Critical Care Department
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Thelle Mogoerane Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist
(physician) with Critical Care certificate. Appropriate tertiary qualification in the
Health Science (MBChB). Current registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in the required
discipline. Grade 1: experience not applicable, registration with HPCSA as
Medical Specialist Critical Care. Grade 2: 5 years appropriate experience as a
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Critical Care. Grade 3: 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Critical
Care. A postgraduate qualification in Management will be an added advantage.
Good communication skills (written and verbal), as well as computer literacy.
Must have a strong record of clinical expertise and clinical governance,
research and experience of training and teaching at both undergraduate and
postgraduate levels. Strong people management skills, analytical thinking,
problem-solving, decision-making and ability to work in a multi-disciplinary
team.
DUTIES : Clinical & Service Delivery: Manage own service delivery and provide clinical
evaluation, care, management, and treatment of patients in the Critical Care
Department at Thelle Mogoerane Regional Hospital. Provide leadership for
critical care services across hospital and academic platforms. Ensure high-
quality, evidence-based intensive care, strengthen clinical governance,
improve patient outcomes, and ensure adherence to national policies, safety
standards, Batho Pele Principles, National Core Standards, and ICU protocols.
Lead multi-disciplinary ward rounds and supervise multi-disciplinary teams and
relevant staff. Teaching, Training & Research: Coordinate and support
teaching, training, and supervision of undergraduate and postgraduate
students, including registrars rotating through ICU. Conduct and support
departmental research; develop own research interests and publish
appropriately; contribute to electronic research databases. Support
postgraduate students with research projects. Administration & Governance.
Perform administrative tasks related to patient management and address
patient complaints. Attend scheduled meetings with hospital management and
liaise with other departments and hospitals as required. Comply with the
Performance Management and Development System: contracting, reviews,
and final assessment. Other: Participate in after-hours ICU cover, call duties,
and other institutional responsibilities as required. Undergo continuous training
and development; attend meetings and training as approved by supervisor.
Comply with the Performance Management and Development System
(Contracting, reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Dr. N. Sibisi Tel No: (011) 891 7000
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
It is the department’s intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in
the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and
disability status is required.
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted online at: https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026 @00:00 midnight
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly New signed Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The Completed and signed form should be
accompanied by a recently updated CV only specifying all experience
indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well as indicating three reference
121
persons with the following information: name and contact number(s), email
address and an indication of the capacity in which the reference is known to
the candidate. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the interview date following communication from HR.
Suitable candidates will be subjected to Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal
record, citizen, credit record checks, qualification, and employment
verification). Confirmation of final appointment will be subject to a positive
security clearance. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered. The persons appointed to this position will be subjected to a
security clearance. SMS candidates will be required to undergo a Competency
Assessment as prescribed by the DPSA. All shortlisted candidates, including
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise, and the other will be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment.
Gauteng Provincial Treasury (GPT) reserves the right to utilise practical
exercises/tests for non-SMS positions and during the recruitment process
(candidates who are shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to determine the
suitability of candidates for the post(s). GPT also reserves the right to cancel
the filling / not to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the
recruitment process. Prospective applicants must please use the new Z83,
which is effective as of 01 January 2021. Pre-entry SMS certificate is
compulsory for SMS appointments. To access the SMS pre-entry certificate
course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For
more information regarding the course, please visit the NSG website:
www.thensg.gov.za.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/133 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DATA MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/049930
Directorate: Sustainable Fiscal Resource Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive package), consists of 70% Basic salary and
30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 7 qualification, e.g., a degree in Information Management / Statistics
/ Econometrics related to the job content. 3-5 years’ experience at junior
management level (ASD) in Statistics / Information Management /
Econometrics and/or related field.
DUTIES : Coordinate the reporting process for provincial departments and entities,
ensuring consolidation of in-year monitoring (IYM) reports and Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework in compliance with reporting frameworks. Manage and
deliver training on budgeting and reporting frameworks and reforms, including
the IYM model, budget database and personnel model. Develop, maintain and
implement data models to support monthly and quarterly reporting on revenue,
expenditure and personnel. Manage the compilation of reports and the
development of analytical tools during budget implementation and monitoring,
including ad hoc data as required. Translate strategic direction into actionable
operational plans. Manage stakeholder relationships. Oversee administrative
support functions. Manage and lead a team of employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – email: tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za
POST 20/134 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL ACCOUNTING AUDITING AND
REPORTING REF NO: REFS/049931
Directorate: Municipal Finance Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive package), consists of 70% Basic salary and
30% flexible portion that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules.
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 7 Degree in Accounting/ Auditing/ Internal Auditing/ Cost
Management or Cost Accounting.3 - 5 years supervisory and or people
management experience (junior management level). 5 years working
experience in municipal accounting and financial reporting or the fields of
Accounting/ Auditing/ Internal Auditing. At least 3 years working experience in
local government or Provincial Treasuries’ MFMA Unit in a similar role.
122
DUTIES : To monitor compliance with the financial management and annual reporting
framework in the municipal sphere of government in live with the Municipal
Finance Management Act and related Legislations by local authorities. Provide
leadership with the management of the sub-directorate. Manage the monitoring
of the implementation of the accounting standards (GRAP and others) and
review and report on the quality of the annual financial statements. Implement
Frameworks, Standards and Guidelines by ensuring compliance with all
standards and legislation and value add in internal audit activities. Coordinate
the provision of accounting services and support to municipalities and
municipal entities. Effective participation in intergovernmental relations
structures (internally and externally).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Tebogo Thobejane – email: tebogo.thobejane@gauteng.gov.za
POST 20/135 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL BUDGET ANALYSIS REF NO:
REFS/049932
Directorate: Municipal Finance Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Financial Management/Financial Accounting/Management Accounting. 3-5
years' experience in accounting and financial management in local government
environment at a functional level. Skills Analytical, Organising, Numeracy,
Advanced Excel, Presentation and Report Writing.
DUTIES : Coordinate reports on non-compliance with relevant legislations, regulations,
and other initiatives by designated municipalities to the relevant supervisor. To
assistance in the monitoring of grants spending of designated municipalities
and submit report to the relevant supervisor. To provide assistance in the
preparation of ad hoc reports and presentations on budget performance in
prescribed format for designated municipalities. Provide assistance in the
evaluation of the budgets and budget supporting documents for designated
municipalities and coordinate the advice/written comments to the municipality.
Provide assistance in monitoring the preparation of the budgets for compliance.
with the MFMA, Municipal Budget Reporting Regulations (MBRR), relevant NT
circulars and on best practices (incl. advice to Council on its oversight role over
the budget process). To provide assistance in the analysis the quarterly
outcome of municipalities' budgets and financial performance including Section
72 report and provide input into the quarterly 'Municipal Finance Quarterly
Review (MFQR)', in the prescribed format for designated municipalities
ensuring accuracy of numbers and quality of report.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Teneko Bangelo email: teneko.bangelo@gauteng.gov.za
POST 20/136 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PUBLIC ENTITIES REF NO: REFS/049933
Directorate: Financial Governance
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Auditing/Accounting//Compliance or Risk Management. A Postgraduate
Diploma in Compliance will be an added advantage. Appropriate 3-5 years’
experience in the public sector in areas of Auditing, Compliance Management
and or risk management at a functional level. Understanding of the Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act.
Demonstrated ability to apply governance frameworks, interpret legislation,
and support organisational accountability through structured compliance
oversight.
DUTIES : To facilitate the creation of GPG Public Entities, Trading Entities and
Government Components as well as to monitor and report on compliance with
good governance component. Support Entities in Compliance Management;
Provide guidance for the development of a compliance universe and the
categorization of acts within it for the GPG entities; Assist in reviewing and
finalizing Compliance Risk Management Plans (CRMP); Coordinate PFMA
requests by providing advice to the Head of Department through a formal letter;
Facilitate the establishment of new entities; Review and Improve Banking and
Governance Arrangement; Provide oversight on the Implementation of
governance framework for Public Entities operating in Provincial sphere: Assist
with tracking and monitoring the implementation of Compliance Risk
123
Management Action plans and the AGSA Audit recommendations for GPG
Entities; Provide training to GPG Entities as requested or as identified by the
unit; Legislative Review & Compliance Risk Management; Capacity Building &
Awareness, Stakeholder Engagement & Advisory Support and eLearning
Compliance Training; Management of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baleseng Sedibe Email: baleseng.sedibe@gauteng.gov.za
POST 20/137 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE AND DIRECTOR:
TRANSVERSAL RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/049934 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Financial Governance
SALARY : R338 106 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric and a three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) as recognised by
SAQA in Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. 3 – 5 years’
experience in office management or similar role. Language skills and the ability
to communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds. Good telephone etiquette. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Remains up to date with regards to the prescripts/policies and procedures
applicable to his/her work terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the
manager. Compares the MTEF allocation with the requested budget and
informs the manager of changes. Scrutinizes documents to determine actions/
information/other documents required for meetings. Handles the procurement
of standard items like stationary, refreshments etc for the activities of the
manager and the unit. Utilizes discretion to decide whether to accept/decline
or refer to other employees’ requests for meetings, based on the assessed
importance and urgency of the matter.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baleseng Sedibe Email: baleseng.sedibe@gauteng.gov.za
124
ANNEXURE X
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
“We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and as such, this
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote inclusiveness
in all occupational levels in the Department”.
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be addressed to the Human Resources Manager, and
should be placed in the application box situated at Security at the entrance to
the Management Building at IALCH or to applications@ialch.co.za
CLOSING DATE : 03 July 2026
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. An Application for
Employment Form (Z83) must be completed and forwarded. This is obtainable
from any Public Service Department or from the website
www.kznhealth.gov.za. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit the
Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications, proof of
registration and other relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted
candidates only which may be submitted to HR on or before the day of the
interview. Original signed letter from your current employer, confirming current
and appropriate work experience related to the requirements and
recommendations of the advert to be submitted only when shortlisted. People
with disabilities should feel free to apply for the posts. The reference number
must be indicated in the column provided on the form Z83, e.g. ref
APRO/1/2006. Please note that failure to comply with the above instructions
will disqualify applicants. It is the short listed candidate’s responsibility to have
the foreign qualification, which is the requirement of the post, evaluated by the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such
evaluation on or before the day of the interview. Failure to comply will result in
the application not being considered. The selected candidate will be subjected
to a pre-employment screening and verification process including a CIPC
(Companies Intellectual Property Commission) screening. Due to the large
number of applications we receive, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged. Should you not be advised within 60 days of the closing date,
kindly consider your application as unsuccessful. Please note that due to
financial constraints, there will be no payment of S&T claims. This Hospital is
an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer whose aim is to promote
representatively in all levels of all occupational categories in the Hospital.
Person with disabilities and African males are encouraged to apply. Please
note that other race groups are also not restricted from applying.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/138 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT REF NO: HCU NEURO (X1 POST)
Department: Neurology
SALARY : Grade 1: R2 168 145 per annum, (all-inclusive Salary package), excluding
commuted overtime.
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital (IALCH)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB Degree or equivalent qualifications. Registration certificate with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
Neurology and current registration as a Medical Specialist Neurology with the
HPCSA. Minimum 5 years’ post-registration experience as a specialist
Neurologist. Additional qualifications: PHD will be an added advantage. Mmed
or equivalent higher degree. Subspecialty expertise (e.g. neurophysiology,
stroke, epilepsy, neuromuscular, neuroimmunology). Experience in a
tertiary/quaternary academic setting. Experience in clinical governance,
service development, and academic leadership. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: Expertise in the management of acute and chronic neurological
disorders including neurological emergencies. Knowledge of national and
international demography, current health and public service legislation,
regulation and policy, including medical ethics, epidemiology, and statistics.
Strong clinical decision-making, communication, and interpersonal skills.
125
Experience in multidisciplinary teamwork, clinical training and functioning in a
quaternary hospital. Ability to teach, supervise, and mentor trainees, junior staff
and allied staff. Knowledge of research principles with ability to drive academic
output. Leadership, administrative, and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Lead and manage the Neurology Clinical Unit as delegated by the Head
Clinical Department of Neurology in the following areas: Ensure high standards
of clinical care, ethics, and governance. Oversee unit administration, staff
performance, and service delivery. Provide specialist clinical services,
including outpatient care, consultations and neurology emergencies.
Participate in after-hours consultant cover. Lead training of undergraduate and
postgraduate students and allied health staff. Develop and implement clinical
protocols (e.g. stroke, neuroimmunology). Support clinical audit and quality
assurance programmes. Promote outreach and strengthen regional neurology
services at secondary and tertiary level hospitals. Ensure efficient and cost-
effective use of resources. Collaborate with UKZN, CMSA, health system
partners and other neurology units at provincial, national and international
levels. Promote and support research and academic development as
delegated by the Head Clinical Department, aligned with the policies of UKZN
and the College of Neurology.
ENQUIRIES : Prof. TC Hardcastle Tel No: (031) 240 2389
POST 20/139 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT TRAUMA & BURNS REF NO: HCU T&B/01/2026 (X1
POST)
Department: Trauma and Burns
SALARY : Grade 1: R2 168 145 per annum, (all-inclusive Salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB Degree or equivalent qualifications. Registration certificate with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
Surgery and Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist or in
a recognised sub-specialty. Plus 5 years’ post-registration experience as a
specialist in Trauma and Burns. Additional Qualifications & Experience:
Applicants must be in possession of an appropriate higher surgical qualification
(FCS(SA) and/or MMed Surgery), completion of Cert Trauma (SA) or
equivalent, and currently registered with HPCSA for independent practice in
the Trauma surgery discipline. As per HPCSA rules: DSTC instructor and ATLS
instructor status required. Calls will include cover of Burns and Trauma Unit.
Completion of ATLS required. eFAST course, MIMMS and, or ACLS/PALS.
Burns experience. Teaching and research experience and evidence of
publication. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Expertise in the
management of acute and chronic neurological disorders including
neurological emergencies, Knowledge of national and international
demography, current health and public service legislation, regulation and
policy, including medical ethics, epidemiology, and statistics, Strong clinical
decision-making, communication, and interpersonal skills Experience in
multidisciplinary teamwork, clinical training and functioning in a quaternary
hospital, ability to teach, supervise, and mentor trainees, junior staff and allied
staff, Knowledge of research principles with ability to drive academic output
Leadership, administrative, and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Report to the Head Clinical Department Trauma and burns. Provide leadership
of the clinical trauma and burns services (incl. Trauma ICU, Burns and Trauma
Resuscitation),inter-disciplinary in-house coordination of the management of
the patients:, supervision of the fellows, specialists and surgical trainees /
medical officers rotating through the trauma and burns:, ensuring the highest
standards of clinical, fiscal, professional, and ethical behaviour: assist with
clinical governance and in teaching of undergraduate medical students,
postgraduate surgical trainees:, conduct, assist, and stimulate research within
the ethical guidelines of the Health Care Act: promote education in trauma
prevention and community awareness and Physical presence on arrival of
scene calls and unstable cases expected.
ENQUIRIES : Prof T C Hardcastle Tel No: (031) 240 1000 ext 2389 or speed dial 6195
126
POST 20/140 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST REF NO: MEDSPEC RHEUM/1/2026 (X1 POST)
Department: Rheumatology
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB and FCP(SA) or equivalent qualifications. Registration certificate with
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist Physician and current registration as a
Medical Specialist Physician with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA). Grade 1: No experience required. The appointment to Grade
1 requires appropriate qualification plus registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as a Specialist Physician. Grade 2:
Requires appropriate qualification, registration certificate plus 5 years’ or more
experience after registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as Specialist Physician. Grade 3: requires appropriate qualification,
registration certificate plus 10 years’ experience or more after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Specialist Physician.
Additional Experience Required: Candidates who are seeking to join the
rheumatology training programme will be given special consideration. A
specialist physician and an interest in rheumatology will be considered for this
position.
DUTIES : To efficiently execute duties which support the aims and objectives of
Department of Rheumatology. To participate and contribute to providing
specialist care for in-patients and outpatients in the Department of
Rheumatology. To supervise the training of medical students and registrars in
Internal Medicine, and sub-speciality trainees in Rheumatology. To participate
in the undergraduate and postgraduate training program in the Department of
Internal Medicine. To participate in the quality assurance activities and
administrative responsibilities of the Department of Rheumatology. To
participate in the education, training, outreach and research activities of the
unit. The incumbent is expected to perform after-hours calls and relief duties
and be part of multi-disciplinary team when necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Keith J Chinniah Tel No: (031) 240 1306
POST 20/141 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST REF NO: MEDSPECGI/1/2021 (X1 POST
Department: Gastroenterology
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB Degree or equivalent qualifications. Registration Certificate as a
Specialist Physician with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA). Current Registration with HPCSA as a Specialist Physician.
Experience: Grade 1: No experience required. The appointment to Grade 1
requires appropriate qualification plus registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa as a Specialist Physician. Grade 2: Requires
appropriate qualification, registration certificate plus 5 years’ or more
experience after registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as Specialist Physician. Grade 3: requires appropriate qualification,
registration certificate plus 10 years’ or more experience after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a as Specialist Physician.
Additional Experience: Registrars who have completed their training may also
apply on condition that their appointment will be subject to them submitting
documentary evidence of registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa as Medical Specialist – Physician. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competencies Required: Ability to teach and supervise junior staff. Middle
Management Skills. Research principles. Good administrative, decision
making and communication skills. Registration with the HPCSA as a
subspecialist in medical gastroenterology will be an added advantage.
127
DUTIES : Participate in training to acquire and apply cognitive and technical skills in the
sub-specialty of Gastroenterology. This includes endoscopic procedures and
other procedures related to the practice of gastroenterology as directed by the
Head of Clinical Unit. Control and management of clinical services as
delegated by the Head of Clinical Unit. Maintain satisfactory clinical,
professional and ethical standards related to these services. Maintain
necessary discipline over staff under his/her control. Attend to administrative
matters as pertain to the unit. Conduct, assist and stimulate research. Provide
training of undergraduate and postgraduate medical students and allied Health
personnel. Participate in formal teaching as required by the department.
Promote community orientated services and participation in departmental
outreach programs. Conduct outpatient clinics and provide expert opinion
where required. Contribute and participate in the academic program of the
Division of Internal Medicine and Department of Gastroenterology. Duties as
directed by the Head of Clinical Unit when necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Dr VG Naidoo Tel No: (031) 240 1000 / 083 233 0662
POST 20/142 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST REF NO: MEDSPECNEPH/1/2026 (X1 POST)
Department: Nephrology
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
CENTRE : IALCH and Durban functional region (DFR)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB or equivalent, FCP (SA). Current Registration with HPCSA as a
Specialist Physician. Registration Certificate as a Specialist Physician with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA). Experience: Grade 1: No
experience required. Grade 2: Five (5) years post registration experience as a
Specialist Physician. Grade 3: Ten (10) years post registration experience as
a Specialist Physician. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competency Required:
Drivers License and own transport. Strong clinical knowledge in nephrology
and internal medicine. Competence in acute and chronic dialysis management.
Experience or interest in interventional nephrology procedures. Ability to teach
and supervise registrars, medical officers, interns, students, nursing, and allied
health staff. Good leadership, administrative, decision-making, and
communication skills. Knowledge of clinical governance, quality improvement,
and clinical audit processes. Experience in clinical research and academic
activities. Sound understanding of medical ethics and professional practice.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will function as a Specialist Physician undergoing
advanced training and development in Nephrology within a central academic
environment. Provision of comprehensive inpatient and outpatient nephrology
care. Management of: general nephrology services, chronic peritoneal dialysis
programmes, acute and chronic haemodialysis services, kidney transplant
outpatient services, Participation in the management of haemodialysis services
at: Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital (IALCH), DFR. Performance and
development of procedural skills including: native and transplant kidney
biopsies, vascular haemodialysis access procedures, percutaneous Tenckhoff
catheter insertions. Supervision and support of junior medical staff, nursing
staff, and allied healthcare professionals. Participation in departmental
administrative, clinical governance, and operational activities. Active
involvement in the academic and research programme of the Department of
Nephrology. Participation in clinical audits, quality improvement initiatives, and
service development projects. Contribution to undergraduate and postgraduate
academic activities at the Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine, including:
student teaching, registrar training, undergraduate and postgraduate
examinations. Participation in after-hours, overtime, and on-call duties in
accordance with departmental service requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Prof Assounga Tel No: (031) 240 1258
128
POST 20/143 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST VASCULAR OR GENERAL SURGERY REF NO:
MEDSPECVASCULAR/1/2026 (X1 POST)
Department: Vascular Surgery
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB Degree; Specialist qualification in General Surgery with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA. Current registration with
(HPCSA) as a certified vascular specialist or a General surgeon. Experience:
Grade 1: No experience required Registrars who have completed their training
may also apply on condition that their appointment will be subject to them
submitting documentary evidence of registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa.as Medical Specialist (General Surgery). Grade 2: Five
(5) Years appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (General Surgery). Grade 3: Ten (10) Years
appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (General Surgery). Knowledge Skills And
Experience Required: Sound knowledge and experience in surgery. Ability to
teach and supervise junior staff. Middle Management Skills. Research
principles. Good administrative, decision-making and communication skills.
Additional Experience: Candidates with an intention to train as a vascular
surgeon.
DUTIES : Provide vascular service to all departments at Albert Luthuli Hospital as well as
in the relevant Durban Metropolitan State Hospitals. Control and management
of these services as delegated. Maintain clinical, professional and ethical
standards related to these services. Provide after-hour care in accordance with
the commuted overtime contract. Training of undergraduate medical students,
and allied personnel and participate in formal teaching as required by the
department. Promote community-oriented services. Conduct outpatient clinics,
and provide Expert opinion where required in consultation with senior
specialists. Participate in the Quality Improvement Programmes of the
Department. Maintain necessary discipline over staff under his/her control.
Attend to administrative matters as pertains to the unit. Conduct, assist and
stimulate research. Organise both academic and clinical service functions of
the Department, including ward rounds, outpatient’s clinics, and clinical training
ward rounds. Participate in clinical research and academic programmes in the
respective clinical department. Train postgraduate students, both bedside
training and classroom training at the hospital. Provide academic and clinical
administrative leadership. Form part of the senior management in the hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Prof. B. Pillay (Clinical Head) Tel No: (031) 240 1000
POST 20/144 : MEDICAL SPECIALISTS REF NO: MEDSPECANAE/1/2026 (X3 POSTS)
Department: Anaesthetics
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Matric). MBCHB or equivalent qualification registered with
the HPCSA. FCA (SA) or MMEd (Anaes) Plus Current Registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa as a “Specialist Anaesthesiologist”.
Candidates who have completed their period of registrar training as registrars
may also apply on condition that their appointment will be subject to them
submitting documentary evidence of registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa. Additional experience in providing a specialist service
as a senior anaesthetist in the sub-specialty areas of Anaesthesia will be
considered an advantage. Experience Required: Grade 1: No experience
required. The appointment to Grade 1 requires appropriate qualification plus
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Specialist
129
Anaesthesiology. Grade 2: Requires appropriate qualification, registration
certificate plus 5 years’ or more experience after registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as Specialist Anaesthesiology. Grade 3:
requires appropriate qualification, registration certificate plus 10 years’
experience or more after registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa as a Specialist Anaesthesiology. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competencies: Knowledge and skills in Clinical Anaesthesia, including
Emergency, Medical and Surgical Care and Acute and Chronic Pain.
Demonstrate the ability to supervise and teach junior staff. Demonstrate the
ability to work as part of a multidisciplinary team. Proven management ability,
sound communication, negotiation, planning, organising, leadership, decision-
making and interpersonal skills. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to
work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good
relationships.
DUTIES : Provide a specialist anaesthesia service and assist the Anaesthetic head of
department and heads of clinical units with effective overall management of the
provision of Anaesthetic services based at IALCH. Assist with management of
patients with acute and chronic pain in the wards and Pain Clinic. Provide a
consultative service and expert opinion on Anaesthesia related matters at
IALCH within the staffing norms. Provide after-hours (nights, weekends, public
holidays) Anaesthetic consultative service for the theatres and units based at
IALCH within the commuted overtime contract. Assist with preoperative
assessment of patients in the wards or in the pre-anaesthetic clinic. Maintain
clinical, professional and ethical standards related to these services. Assist the
head of department and heads of clinical units with the development and
implementation of guidelines, protocols and clinical audits, revising as needed
to optimise patient care in the theatres and wards with the resources available.
Assist with auditing the activity and outcomes of service of the Anaesthetic
Department. Be part of the multi-disciplinary team to optimise patient care and
use of Human and other resources. Be actively involved in the Departmental
undergraduate and post- graduate teaching programmes. Participate in both
academic and clinical administrative activities. Participation in commuted
overtime is compulsory.
ENQUIRIES : Dr L Cronjé Tel No: (031) 240 1805/1804
POST 20/145 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST REF NO: MEDSPEC GERIATRICS/1/2026 (X1
POST)
Department: Geriatrics
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), excluding
commuted overtime
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB and FCP(SA) or equivalent qualifications. Registration certificate with
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist Physician and current registration as a
Medical Specialist Physician with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA). Grade 1: No experience required. The appointment to Grade
1 requires appropriate qualification plus registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as a Specialist Physician. Grade 2:
Requires appropriate qualification, registration certificate plus 5 years’ or more
experience after registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as Specialist Physician. Grade 3: requires appropriate qualification,
registration certificate plus 10 years’ experience or more after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Specialist Physician.
Additional Experience Required: A specialist physician and an interest in
Geriatrics will be considered for this position. Candidates who are seeking to
join a Geriatrics training programme will be given special consideration.
DUTIES : To efficiently execute duties which support the aims and objectives of
Department of Geriatrics. To participate and contribute to providing specialist
care for in-patients and outpatients in the Department of Geriatrics. To
supervise the training of medical students and registrars in Internal Medicine.
To participate in the undergraduate and postgraduate training program in the
Department of Internal Medicine. To participate in the quality assurance
activities and administrative responsibilities of the Department of Geriatrics. To
130
participate in the education, training, outreach and research activities of the
unit. The incumbent is expected to perform after-hours calls and relief duties
and be part of multi-disciplinary team when necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Singh Tel No: (031) 240 1034
POST 20/146 : PRINCIPAL PSYCHOLOGIST REF NO: PRINC PSYCH/1/2026 (X1 POST)
Department: Clinical Psychology
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 295 388 per annum
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital (IALCH)
REQUIREMENTS : Master’s degree in Clinical Psychology. Registration certificate with HPCSA
and Current registration as a clinical psychologist. At least 3 years post
registration work experience as a Clinical Psychologist. Knowledge, Skills,
Training and Competence Required: Psychodiagnostic and psychotherapeutic
competencies of working with adults and children within a hospital setting
particularly applicable to level of care rendered at the IALCH. Knowledge and
experience in behavioural medicine. In-depth knowledge of policies, protocols
and procedures as is applicable to the profession and the hospital. Supervisory
experience. Knowledge and competence in neuropsychology assessment and
report writing. Administrative and organisational skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Computer literacy. Good interpersonal, decision-making
and problem-solving abilities. Adaptable, empathetic, assertive, self-motivated
and flexible. Experience intervening with Burn Patients, Pain Management,
Renal and Oncology patients and Palliative care will be an added advantage.
Management experience, including drawing up relevant policies and clinical
protocols, financial management and HR knowledge. Strong Work ethic.
DUTIES : To ensure effective and efficient management of all persons referred for
psychological intervention at IALCH and thereby promote access to high
quality psychology services. To manage and lead the Department of Clinical
Psychology and ensure that safe and effective policies and procedures are in
place and fully implemented to meet minimum quality standards as well as
improve patient experience of care rendered by the Department. To manage
training and development of staff, including orientation and induction of
psychologists, capacity building and skills transfer to subordinates and other
personnel at IALCH. Engage in effective communication and interaction
between subordinates, other departments, personnel, consultants, colleagues,
suppliers, and other service providers. To develop preventative and promotive
psychological health programmes. Incumbent must be a team player who is
able to participate in multidisciplinary management of complex oncology and
renal patients. To participate in clinical governance programmes of the hospital.
Enquiries: Dr S Singh Tel No: (031) 240 1059
POST 20/147 : RADIATION ONCOLOGY RADIOGRAPHER (RADIOTHERAPIST) REF NO:
RADRADIOONCO/1/2026 (X4 POSTS)
Department: Radiation Oncology
SALARY : Grade 1: R510 906 per annum, Plus 13th cheque, Medical Aid - Optional &
Housing Allowance: Employee must meet prescribed requirements
Grade 2: R598 260 per annum, Plus 13th Cheque, Medical Aid optional and
Housing Allowance: Employee must meet prescribed requirements
Grade 3: R703 785 per annum, Plus 13th Cheque, Medical Aid optional and
Housing Allowance: Employee must meet prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : EThekwini Oncology complex (Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital and
Addington Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma or Bachelor degree in Radiography. Registration with HPCSA as
Radiographer oncology, Current registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa as a Radiographer (Radiotherapy Oncology).
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required: Knowledge of
radiotherapy standard techniques, dose protocols, equipment and accessories
associated with relevant techniques and including specialized techniques.
Knowledge of basic quality assurance in Radiotherapy, radiation effects &
Radiation protection on patients. Anatomy vs tumour treatment vs effects on
physiology care patterns for patients. Taking and evaluating of Portal images /
C.T. scans and MRI scans for treatment planning purposes. Knowledge of
Radiotherapy Planning. Good interpersonal skills and basic supervisory skills.
Must have the ability to perform effectively in a team. Knowledge of basic
patient care.
131
DUTIES : Undertake all basic radiation planning and treatment preparation including the
tumor localization, graphic planning, radiation dose calculation and the
necessary data preparation needed for treatment accessory construction.
Undertake Brachytherapy Planning and treatment procedure. Liaise with the
Physicist, Oncologist, Oncology nurses, relatives and the patient. Safely
operate, care and construct accessories and immobilization devices used in
the planning and treatment of the patient. Dosimetry checks done before
delivery of treatment. Ensure accurate records kept of the course of
Radiotherapy treatment delivered. Serve as Health and Safety Representative.
Provide afterhours duties and rotate between Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central
Hospital Radiotherapy department and Addington Hospital Radiotherapy
department when needed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T. Hlengwa Tel No: (031) 240 1857
POST 20/148 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: (SPECIALTY NURSING STREAM PNB 1)
ADVANCED MIDWIFERY AND NEONATAL CARE REF NO: PN (SPEC
NURS OBS&GYNAE) 1/2026 (X1 POST)
Department: Obstetrics & Gynaecology
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum, plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum, plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification. Basic R425
qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional
Nurse and Midwifery. Certificate of registration with SANC as a Professional
Nurse and midwife. One (1) year post-basic qualification in Midwifery and
Neonatal Nursing Science (Advanced Midwifery) accredited by SANC. Current
registration with SANC as General Nurse, Midwife and Neonatal Nursing
Science (Advanced Midwifery) (SANC receipt 2026). A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable post-registration experience as a General Nurse. NB:
Proof of Current and Previous Experience (Certificate of service) stating the
relevant experience endorsed and stamped by HR Department will be
requested only to the shortlisted candidates. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum
of 4 years appropriate/recognizable experience in Nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with SANC is required. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in Nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with SANC is required. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience in Advanced
Midwifery and Neonatal Care after obtaining the 1 year post basic qualification
in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Care. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competencies Required: Demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of
nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices. In-depth
knowledge on procedures, policies, prescripts related to nursing care. Good
human relations displaying a concern for patients, promoting and advocating
proper treatment and care including a willingness and awareness to respond
to patient’s needs, requirements and expectations (Batho Pele). Ability to
prioritize matters related to work and patient care Skills: Leadership,
organizational, decision-making, problem-solving abilities within the limits of
the public sector and interpersonal skills. Personal attributes: responsiveness,
communication skills for dealing with patients, professionalism, supportive,
assertive, writing of reports when required and must work within multi-
disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards within
professional/legal framework. Display concern for patients, promoting and
advocating proper treatment and care including awareness and willingness to
respond to patient needs, requirements. Work as part of a multidisciplinary
team to ensure good nursing care that is cost-effective, equitable and efficient.
Perform quality comprehensive clinical nursing practice in accordance with the
scope of practice and nursing standards determined by IALCH and relevant
prescripts. Implementation of programs that promote maternal, women and
neonatal positive health outcomes. Internal rotation of staff within the relevant
speciality will be exercised according to patients need. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Provide a therapeutic
environment for patient’s staff and public. Ensure unit compliance with infection
132
prevention and control as well as Occupational health and safety. Maintain
accreditation standards by ensuring compliance with Norms and Standards,
Ideal hospital framework and make me look like hospital project. Attend
meetings, workshops and training as assigned by supervisor. Participate in
quality cycles and quality improvement projects to improve patient outcomes
Be cognisant of measures to prevent patient safety incidents and litigation. Act
as shift leader when necessary or as delegated by supervisor Participate in
staff development using EPMDS System and other work-related programs and
training. Implementation of shift work and night duty according to institutional
and relevant prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs G.F. Mncwango AMN Tel No: (031) 2401083
POST 20/149 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: SPECIALTY NURSING STREAM – ONCOLOGY
REF NO: PN (SPEC NURS) ONCO/1/2026 (X3 POSTS)
Department: Oncology
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum, plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum, plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification. Basic R425
qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional
Nurse and 1 year post-basic qualification in Oncology Nursing (R212).
Registration with SANC as Professional Nurse and Oncology Nursing
Speciality. Current registration with SANC as Professional Nurse and Oncology
Nursing Speciality. A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable post
registration experience as a General Nurse. NB: Proof of Current and Previous
Experience (Certificate of service) stating the relevant experience endorsed
and stamped by HR Department will be requested only to the shortlisted
candidates. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in Nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing is required. Grade 2: A
minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in General nursing is required.
At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the Oncology Nursing Speciality after
obtaining the 1 year post basic qualification in the relevant speciality. Additional
Qualifications: Diploma in Basic Midwifery will be an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required: Demonstrate a
comprehensive understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and
ethical nursing practices. Possess communication skills for dealing with
patients, supervisors and other members of the multi-disciplinary team
including the writing of reports when required. Good human relations displaying
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including a willingness and awareness to respond to patient’s needs,
requirements and expectations (Batho Pele). Ability to plan and organise own
work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care.
DUTIES : Work as part of a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good nursing care that is
cost-effective, equitable and efficient. Perform a quality comprehensive clinical
nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and nursing
standards determined by IALCH and relevant prescripts. Implementation of all
programs that promote good health outcomes in oncology nursing. Internal
rotation of staff within the relevant speciality will be exercised according to
patients need. Night duty will be implemented. Acts as shift leader in Unit when
necessary. Perform duties as delegated by the supervisor of the area.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. G.F. Mncwango AMN Tel No: (031) 2401083
POST 20/150 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: SPECIALTY NURSING STREAM –
PAEDIATRICS REF NO: (SPEC NURS) PAEDS 1/2026 (X1 POST)
Department: Paediatrics
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum, plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum, plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
133
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification. Basic R425
qualification (i.e. diploma / degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional
Nurse and Midwifery. Certificate of registration with SANC as a Professional
Nurse and midwife. One (1) year post basic qualification in Paediatric Nursing
Science/Child Nursing Science accredited by SANC. Current registration with
SANC as General Nurse, Midwife and Paediatric Nursing Science /Child
Nursing Science Nursing (SANC receipt 2026). A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable post registration experience as a General Nurse. NB:
Proof of Current and Previous Experience (Certificate of service) stating the
relevant experience endorsed and stamped by HR will be requested only to the
shortlisted candidates. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in Nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing is required. Grade 2: A
minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in General nursing is required.
At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the Paediatric Nursing Science/Child
Nursing Science Speciality after obtaining the 1 year post basic qualification in
the relevant speciality. Additional Qualifications: Diploma in Basic Midwifery will
be an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies
Required: Demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of nursing legislation
and related legal and ethical nursing practices. In-depth knowledge on
procedures, policies, prescripts related to nursing care. Good human relations
displaying a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment
and care including a willingness and awareness to respond to patient’s needs,
requirements and expectations (Batho Pele). Ability to prioritize matters related
to work and patient care. Skills: Leadership, organizational, decision making,
problem solving abilities within the limits of the public sector and interpersonal
skills. Personal attributes: responsiveness, communication skills for dealing
with patients, professionalism, supportive, assertive, writing of reports when
required and must work within multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of IMAM,
ETAT, PMTCT, EPI and CHIPP guidelines.
DUTIES : Render optimal holistic quality specialised nursing care as directed by the
scope of practice and service standards. Provide a safe, therapeutic and
hygienic environment for patients, visitors and staff. Maintain quality standards
by ensuring compliance with Regulated Norms and Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization and Maintenance. Effective and efficient management of
all resources. Manage generated data as per data management policy. Be well
versed with management of major incident procedure. Display competency in
resuscitation and actively involved in in-service education to accumulate CPD
points. Promote ethics and professionalism in the work environment.
Participate in quality circles and quality improvement projects to improve
patient outcomes. Be cognisant of measures to prevent patient safety incidents
and litigation. Assume shift leader role when necessary or as delegated by
supervisor. Assist in supervision and development of all nursing staff. Ensure
effective participation in all hospital and Paediatric programs e.g. IPC, Health
and safety EPI. CHIPP etc.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs G.F. Mncwango AMN Tel No: (031) 2401083
POST 20/151 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: (SPECIALTY NURSING STREAM)-CRITICAL
CARE REF NO: PN (SPEC NURS STREAM) CRIT CARE1/2026 (X4 POSTS)
Department: Critical Care
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum, plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum, plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification. Basic R425
qualification (i.e. diploma / degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council as a Professional
Nurse. Certificate of registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. One (1)
year post basic qualification in Critical Care Nursing Science accredited by
SANC. Current registration with SANC as General Nurse and Critical Care
Nursing Science. A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable post
134
registration experience as a General Nurse. NB: Proof of Current and Previous
Experience (Certificate of service) stating the relevant experience endorsed
and stamped by HR will be requested only to the shortlisted candidates.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in Nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing is required. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in Nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with SANC in General nursing is required. At least 10 years
of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience
in the Critical Care Nursing Science Speciality after obtaining the 1 year post
basic qualification in the relevant speciality. Additional Qualifications: Diploma
in Basic Midwifery will be an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competencies Required: Demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of
nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices. In-depth
knowledge on procedures, policies, prescripts related to nursing care. Good
human relations displaying a concern for patients, promoting and advocating
proper treatment and care including a willingness and awareness to respond
to patient’s needs, requirements and expectations (Batho Pele). Ability to
prioritize matters related to work and patient care. Skills: Leadership,
organizational, decision making, problem solving abilities within the limits of the
public sector and interpersonal skills. Personal attributes: responsiveness,
communication skills for dealing with patients, professionalism, supportive,
assertive, writing of reports when required and must work within multi-
disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provision of Optimal, Holistic Specialized Nursing Care. Deliver high-quality,
holistic, and specialized nursing care in line with professional/legal frameworks.
Display concern for patients by promoting and advocating proper treatment and
care. Provide a therapeutic environment for patients, staff, and the public.
Nurse critically ill patients (ventilated, on Haemodialysis, CVVHD). Advocate
for quality patient care. Be cognisant of measures to prevent patient safety
incidents and litigation. Effective Utilization of Resources Ensure cost-effective,
equitable, and efficient service delivery. Support multidisciplinary teamwork to
optimize outcomes. Ensure unit compliance with infection prevention, control,
and occupational health and safety. Participation in Training and Research
Participate in training programmes, workshops, and meetings as assigned.
Engage in research and evidence-based practice to improve patient outcomes.
Participate in quality cycles and quality improvement projects. Provision of
Support to Nursing Services. Provide professional and clinical support to
nursing services. Assume the shift leader role when necessary or as delegated.
Maintain accreditation standards by ensuring compliance with Norms and
Standards, Ideal Hospital Framework and Office of Health Standards
Compliance. Professional Growth, Ethics, and Self-Development. Maintain
professional growth and self-development through continuous professional
development. Strengthen ethics and professionalism in practice. Participate in
staff development using the PMDS system and other training initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs G.F. Mncwango AMN Tel No: (031) 2401083
POST 20/152 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST / ECHOCARDIOGRAPHER REF NO:
ECHOCARDIO/1/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Department: Cardiology
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
Plus a 13th cheque, medical aid, optional homeowner’s allowance. The
employee must meet prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / B Tech Degree in Clinical Technology (Cardiology). Current
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Clinical
Technologist (Cardiology). Registration with (HPCSA) in Cardiology
Independent Practitioner). Experience: Grade 1 No experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Technologist in respect of RSA qualified employees who performed
Community Service as required in South Africa. One year relevant experience
after registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa as a
Clinical Technologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
135
2: Minimum 10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
a Clinical Technologist in respect of RSA qualified employees who performed
Community Service as required in South Africa. Minimum 11 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist in
respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform
community service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum 20 year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical
Technologist in respect of RSA qualified employees who performed Community
Service as required in South Africa. Minimum 21 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist in respect of foreign
qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform community service
as required in South Africa. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies:
Sound knowledge of echocardiographic procedures and ultrasound
equipment. Knowledge of relevant Health and Safety policies. Sound planning
and organizational skills. Sound communication and problem solving skills with
computer literacy. Additional Knowledge: both adult and paediatric diagnostic
and interventional procedures. Experience in advanced echocardiography.
DUTIES : Perform all echocardiograms, report independently on echo findings and assist
with procedures in the Echo Laboratory. Perform procedures in the invasive
and non-invasive laboratories on a rotational basis. Key areas include the
cardiac catheterization theatres, including pacing + electrophysiology, exercise
stress testing, holter monitoring and cardiac nuclear scans. Participate in all
areas of cardiac technology services, including maintaining accurate statistics
and participating in research. Perform after hour’s emergency call-out duties
including on weekends and public holidays as per the duty roster. Perform any
other duties relevant to the work situation, which may be allocated by the
supervisor or the Head of Department, including departmental outreach and
teaching programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Prof S. Khan Tel No: (031) 240 1524
POST 20/153 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST REF NO: PHYSIO/1/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Department: Physiotherapy
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum, Plus 13th cheque, Medical Aid –Optional &
Housing Allowance: Employee must meet prescribed requirements
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum, Plus 13th Cheque, Medical Aid –optional and
Housing Allowance- Employee must meet prescribed requirement
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum, Plus 13th Cheque, Medical Aid optional and
Housing Allowance- Employee must meet prescribed requirement
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior certificate. Bachelor’s degree in Physiotherapy. Registration
with Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Physiotherapist
(Independent Practitioner). Current Annual Registration with the HPCSA as a
Physiotherapist. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Expertise in
all Critical Care areas and Specialised Rehabilitative services. Proficiency in
the evaluation, diagnosis and skillful use of treatment modalities and
equipment. Sound knowledge of relevant legislation guiding the provision of
clinical health care in the public sector e.g., Patients’ Rights Charter, Ideal
Hospital; OHSC; Batho Pele etc. Knowledge of patient referral pathways. Good
communication (written and verbal) skills. Grade 1: No experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Physiotherapist in respect of RSA qualified employees who performed
Community Service as required in South Africa. One-year relevant experience
after registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa as a
Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
a Physiotherapist in respect of RSA qualified employees who performed
Community Service as required in South Africa. Minimum 11 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in Physiotherapy in respect of
foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect
of RSA qualified employees who performed Community Service as required in
South Africa. Minimum 21 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Physiotherapy in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it
is not required to perform community service as required in South Africa.
136
DUTIES : Assessment, planning and treatment of patients referred for physiotherapy.
Responsible for co-ordination & provision of high quality up to date
physiotherapy service. Participate in quality improvement and skills
development programs. Assist in safeguarding and evaluating the
management of equipment and infrastructure, as well as stock control
management. Contribute towards planning, budgeting, procurement
processes. Support the supervisor in all transformative changes and additional
supervisory tasks. Participate in EPMDS, clinical & document audits. Maintain
up to-date clinical records and daily statistics. Participate in all departmental
committees. Required to work a 40-hour week & perform weekend overtime &
stand by duties on a rotational basis. Provide mentorship and guidance to
community service therapists and 4th year Physiotherapy students.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L.E. Gilbert Tel No: (031) 240 1447
POST 20/154 : DIETICIAN REF NO: DIET/1/2026 (X1 POST)
Department: Dietetics
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum, Plus 13th cheque, Medical Aid–Optional &
Housing Allowance: Employee must meet prescribed requirements.
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum, Plus 13th Cheque, Medical Aid –optional and
Housing Allowance- Employee must meet prescribed requirement
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum, Plus 13th Cheque, Medical Aid-optional and
Housing Allowance- Employee must meet prescribed requirement
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: No experience after registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Dietician in respect of RSA qualified employees
who performed Community Service as required in South Africa. One-year
relevant experience after registration with the Health Professional Council of
South Africa as a Dietician in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of RSA qualified employees who performed
Community Service as required in South Africa Minimum 11 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in Dietician in respect of foreign
qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform community service
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of RSA qualified
employees who performed Community Service as required in South Africa.
Minimum 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Dietician in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required to
perform community service as required in South Africa.
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Science Degree in Dietetics or equivalent / Post graduate diploma
in Dietetics or have completed a 4 year integrated course in Dietetics/Nutrition.
Registration with Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dietician. Current Registration with the HPCSA as a Dietician. Knowledge,
Skills, Training and Competence Required: Broad understanding of a broad
range of therapeutic/nutrition conditions in both adults and paediatric clients
which he/she must be able to identify/treat/follow up and educate for home.
Knowledge on the treatment of patients with varying disease conditions. Sound
insight into physical assessment of patient. A sound clinical knowledge of
Human Nutrition and associated therapeutic nutrition interventions must be
demonstrated.
DUTIES : Ensure all referred patients are seen timeously. Evidence-based nutrition
therapy is practiced. Patient interventions are recorded on hospital information
system. Ward rounds are attended. Attend & participate in accredited CPD
activities. In-services to wards and relevant health professionals. Assist with
administration, foodservice/catering/ special diets; stores & stock; MBFI,
meeting attendance, clinical governance, health & safety. Training &
supervision of postgraduate dietetic students. In-services to wards and other
health professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs Astrid Wichmann Tel No: (031) 240 1642
POST 20/155 : CLINICAL TECHNOLOGIST / NEUROPHYSIOLOGY REF NO:
CLINTECHNEURO/1/2026 (X1 POST)
Department: Neurology
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
137
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
Plus a 13th cheque, medical aid, optional homeowner’s allowance. The
employee must meet prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / B Tech Degree in Clinical Technology Neurophysiology. Independent
Practice Registration with HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist in the category
Neurophysiology. Current registration and good standing with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa. Experience: Grade 1: No experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Technologist in respect of RSA qualified employees who performed
Community Service as required in South Africa. One year relevant experience
after registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa as a
Clinical Technologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
2: Minimum 10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
a Clinical Technologist in respect of RSA qualified employees who performed
Community Service as required in South Africa. Minimum 11 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist in
respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform
community service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum 20 year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical
Technologist in respect of RSA qualified employees who performed Community
Service as required in South Africa. Minimum 21 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist in respect of foreign
qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform community service
as required in South Africa. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies
Required: Competency and skills in independently performing
Electroneurodiagnostic studies for neonatal, paediatric and adult populations:
including routine, mobile/bedside and long term EEG, transcranial Doppler
ultrasound, visual- auditory- and somatosensory evoked potentials, basic and
advanced nerve conduction studies and assisting physicians with EMG
examinations. Diagnostic and therapeutic sleep study procedures. Experience
in advanced neurophysiology procedures will be advantageous. Technical
report writing skills for previously mentioned procedures. Willingness to learn
additional skills, such as autonomic testing. Additional experience in high
density EEG testing and intraoperative monitoring will be an advantage. Good
communication, organisational and interpersonal skills. Ability to work
independently and in a team. Knowledge of ethical code of conduct, patient’s
right and Batho Pele Principles. Prior experience in training and assessments
of students will be advantageous. Additional Knowledge: CPD Compliant as
per national regulations. Candidates currently enrolled in BHS with qualification
date prior to start of service may apply. Masters level post graduate
qualification in Clinical Technology Neurophysiology will be beneficial in the
setting of training. Experience working with electronic patient records and
networked equipment systems will be advantageous. Experience in training
provision will be beneficial.
DUTIES : Work in an active clinical and training Neurophysiology unit. Independent
performance and reporting of all clinical technology neurophysiology
procedures under the direction and supervision of the Assistant Director.
Ensure high quality and technically sound recordings of tests performed.
Ensure accuracy of all patient reports and detailed history taking. Ensure
integrity of the recording systems, data storage management, patient care
statistics, stock control, and general day to day operational tasks in the
department. Actively participate in teaching and training of students and
neurology registrars in clinical neurophysiology, including theory instruction
and practical demonstrations. Promote Batho Pele principles in order to
promote effective service delivery. Technical knowledge and skill in equipment
function and setup. Maintain and check equipment regularly in order to comply
with safety requirements. Exercise patient care and expertise when performing
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Christelle van der Walt Tel No: (031) 240-1633/4
138
POST 20/156 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: GENERAL STREAM REF NO: PN GEN/1/2026
(X15 POSTS)
Department: Nursing
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum, plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum, plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum, plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric/Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification. Basic R425
qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. Certificate of
registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. Current registration with
SANC as a General Nurse. NB: Certificate of Service from previous and current
employer endorsed and stamped by HR. Experience: Grade 1: No experience
required. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in Nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General nursing is required. Grade 3: A minimum of twenty (20) years
appropriate/recognizable nursing after registration as a professional nurse with
SANC in Nursing. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and
other relevant legal framework. Sound knowledge of the scope of practice in
the area of performance. Code of conduct, Patients’ Right Charter, Batho Pele
Principles. Good communication skills. Report writing skills. Computer skills;
Coordination skills, problem solving skills. Planning and organizing. Additional
Knowledge: Currently utilising Meditech System in Public Sector.
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within prescripts of the applicable
legislation. Provide safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient activities.
Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and procedures. Adopt
multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic care. Maintain accurate and
complete records. Maintain client satisfaction through quality service
innovation and professional nursing care by upholding Batho Pele Principles
and patients’ rights. Ensure efficient and effective utilization of resources. To
take overall responsibility of the unit in the absence of the operational manager.
Evaluate staff performance by adhering to the set standards of the EPMDs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. G.F. Mncwango Tel No: (031) 240 1063 Acting. Nurse Manager
POST 20/157 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: GENERAL STREAM REF NO: PN GEN/2/2026
(X25 POSTS)
Department: Nursing
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum, plus 13th cheque, Housing Allowance
(employees must meet the prescribed requirement), Medical Aid (Optional).
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric/Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification. Basic R425
qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. Certificate of
registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. Current registration with
SANC as a General Nurse. NB: Certificate of Service from previous and current
employer endorsed and stamped by HR. Experience: Grade 1: No experience
required. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in Nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General nursing is required. Grade 3: A minimum of twenty (20) years
appropriate/recognizable nursing after registration as a professional nurse with
SANC in Nursing. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and
other relevant legal framework. Sound knowledge of the scope of practice in
the area of performance. Code of conduct, Patients’ Right Charter, Batho Pele
Principles. Good communication skills. Report writing skills. Computer skills;
Coordination skills, problem solving skills. Planning and organizing.
139
DUTIES : Execute duties and functions with proficiency within prescripts of the applicable
legislation. Provide safe therapeutic environment. Monitor patient activities.
Perform standard procedures in terms of policies and procedures. Adopt
multidisciplinary approach to promote holistic care. Maintain accurate and
complete records. Maintain client satisfaction through quality service
innovation and professional nursing care by upholding Batho Pele Principles
and patients’ rights. Ensure efficient and effective utilization of resources. To
take overall responsibility of the unit in the absence of the operational manager.
Evaluate staff performance by adhering to the set standards of the EPMDs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. G.F. Mncwango Tel No: (031) 2401063 Acting. Nurse Manager
POST 20/158 : SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST REF NO: MED SPEC SESS
TRANS/1/2026 (X1 POST)
Department: Transplant Surgery
No of Sessions Per Week: 20 (Each Session is equivalent to 1 hour)
Nature of Appointment: Sessional – Not exceeding 12 months; subject to
annual review
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 hourly rate per session
Grade 2: R766.00 hourly rate per session
Grade 3: R887.00 hourly rate per session
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB Degree or equivalent qualifications. Current registration with Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
Surgery. Registration certificate with the (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in
Surgery. Grade 1: No experience required. The appointment to Grade 1
requires appropriate qualification plus registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa as a Specialist Surgery. Grade 2: Requires appropriate
qualification, registration certificate plus 5 years’ or more experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Specialist
Surgery. Grade 3: requires appropriate qualification, registration certificate
plus 10 years’ or more experience after registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa as a Specialist Surgery. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competence Required: An in-depth knowledge of the functioning of the
Transplant Unit. The applicant will be expected to manage donor and recipient
surgery as well as oversee the surgical access for dialysis patients on the
transplant programme (adult and paediatric). Ability to perform appropriate
specialised procedures, particularly kidney transplants and all access surgery.
Proven academic capabilities and training experience. Sound knowledge of
management and human resources. Sound knowledge of current health and
Public Service legislation and policy. Good communication and supervisory
skills. Ability to work within a team. Stress tolerance. Self-confidence. Capacity
to build and maintain relationships. Good communication skills. Leadership
and decision making skills. Address access surgery related complications and
assist both adult and paediatric nephrology with difficult access cases.
Additional Experience: Previous experience in an accredited renal transplant
unit or access surgery skills. Management experience will be an added
advantage. Experience in Renal Transplantation and/ or Access Surgery would
be preferred.
DUTIES : Assist the head of clinical unit with management of Renal transplant
programme for the province. Provide access to surgical services to patients on
the transplant programme. Conducting of clinics, operating theatre, angiosuite
lists and consultations with other disciplines. Drawing up of protocols for patient
perioperative patient management. Conducting and supervising relevant
research. Performing regular audits of the departmental activities. Liaising with
the hospital management and other agencies to ensure the efficient provision
of clinical services at IALCH. Providing consultative/support services to
peripheral institutions as part of the department’s outreach program. Afterhours
cover is mandatory to assist in the running of a successful transplant unit.
ENQUIRIES : Dr SL Pillay Tel No: (031) 240 2431/ 0761856050
140
POST 20/159 : SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST REF NO: MEDSPECANAEST/1/2026
(X2 POSTS)
Department: Anaesthetics
No of Sessions Per Week: 10 Sessions per person – (Each session is
equivalent to 1 hour)
Nature of Appointment: Sessional – not exceeding 12 months - subject to
annual review
SALARY : Grade 1: R671.00 hourly rate per session
Grade 2: R766.00 hourly rate per session
Grade 3: R887.00 hourly rate per session
CENTRE : Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Matric), MBCHB or equivalent qualification registered with
the HPCSA. FCA (SA) or MMEd (Anaes) Plus Current Registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa as a “Specialist Anaesthesiologist”.
Additional Experience: Additional experience in providing a specialist service
as a senior anaesthetist in the sub-specialty areas of Anaesthesia will be
considered an advantage. Candidates who have completed their period of
registrar training as registrars may also apply on condition that their
appointment will be subject to them submitting documentary evidence of
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa. Grade 1:
Requires appropriate qualification plus registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa. Registrars who have completed their training may also
apply on condition that their appointment will be subject to them submitting
documentary evidence of registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist
in Anaesthesiology. Grade 2: Requires appropriate qualification, registration
certificate plus 5 years’ or more experience after registration with the HPCSA
as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 3: Requires appropriate
qualification, registration certificate plus 10 years’ or more experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology.
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies: Knowledge and skills in
Clinical Anaesthesia, including Emergency, Medical and Surgical Care and
Acute and Chronic Pain. Demonstrate the ability to supervise and teach junior
staff. Demonstrate the ability to work as part of a multidisciplinary team. Proven
management ability, sound communication, negotiation, planning, organising,
leadership, decision-making and interpersonal skills. Behavioural Attributes:
Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build
and maintain good relationships.
DUTIES : Provide a specialist anaesthesia service on a sessional basis. Provide
perioperative anaesthesia care for a variety of specialised and complex sub-
disciplines within IALCH. Provide a consultative service and expert opinion on
Anaesthesia related matters at IALCH within the staffing norms. Assist with
preoperative assessment of patients in the wards or in the pre-anaesthetic
clinic. Maintain clinical, professional and ethical standards related to these
services. Comply with the guidelines, protocols and clinical audits, in the
department as to optimise patient care in the theatres and wards with the
resources available. Assist with auditing the activity and outcomes of service
of the Anaesthetic Department. Be part of the multi-disciplinary team to
optimise patient care and use of Human and other resources. Be actively
involved in the Departmental undergraduate and post- graduate teaching
programmes. Participate in both academic and clinical administrative activities.
ENQUIRIES : Dr L Cronjé Tel No: (031) 240 1805/1804
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Provincial Administration of KwaZulu-Natal is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer and
Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applicants can submit their Z83 and
CV online.
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application
Centre’s (DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online
or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of Designated
Online Application Centers (DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” OR
Direct your application quoting the reference number of the post you are
applying for:
141
Head Office Posts: Direct your application quoting the reference number of
the post you are applying for and the name of the publication in which you saw
the advertisement to Director: Human Resource Management Department of
Public Works & Infrastructure, Private Bag x9142 Pietermaritzburg 3200, for
attention Mrs. ZJ Hlongwane. Alternatively, applications can be delivered to
191 Prince Alfred Street, Pietermaritzburg
Ethekwini Region Posts: Direct your application quoting the reference
number of the post you are applying for and the name of the publication in
which you saw the advertisement to The Regional Director, Department of
Public Works & Infrastructure, Private Bag X54336, Durban 4000 for attention
Ms NT Phewa or alternatively hand delivered to 455A Jan Smuts Highway,
Mayville, Durban.
North Coast Region Posts: Direct your application quoting the reference
number of the post you are applying for and the name of the publication in
which you saw the advertisement to The Regional Director, Department of
Public Works & Infrastructure, Private Bag X42, Ulundi, 3838 for attention Mr
S Zulu, Alternatively, Applications can be delivered to King Dinuzulu Highway,
LA Administrative Building, Ulundi.
CLOSING DATE : 30 June 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted individually on the prescribed new approved
Z83 form, the form is available from the website www.kznworks.gov.za or can
be obtainable from any Public Service department, and must be accompanied
by a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV). Certified copies of supporting
documents need not accompany your application and CV, as these will be
requested from shortlisted candidates only. Faxed or electronic copies will not
be considered. Candidates are urged to view the guidelines available to all
prospective candidates applying for vacant position on the departmental
website before completing applications for posts. Candidates are also advised
not to send their applications through registered mail, as the Department will
not take responsibility for non-collection thereof. It is the applicants’
responsibility to have foreign qualifications assessment for equivalent by the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications that do not comply
with the above-mentioned instructions will be disqualified. Please note that the
Department reserves the right not to fill the post. Recommended candidate’s
personal information will be subject to vetting prior to an offer of appointment
being made. Candidates are expected to be available on the date set for the
interviews or they may be disqualified. Should you not have been contacted by
this office within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement, kindly
consider your application being unsuccessful. Please note that further
communication shall be restricted to those candidates who will have been
shortlisted. The appointed candidate shall be required to sign a performance
agreement. Please note that reference checks and/or confirmation of
employment will be done with the current employer and candidates are advised
to include references from the current employment to facilitate this. The filling
of this post will be guided by the Department’s Employment Equity targets.
Please note that requests for higher salaries will not be entertained for the
advertised posts, however it may only be considered for posts falling within the
Occupational Specific Dispensation (OSD) subject to the existing provisions.
Candidates applying for advertised posts in the Department, will be deemed to
have granted consent to their personal information being used to determine
suitability in terms of the POPIA Act, 4 of 2013. Please note that employment
verifications shall be undertaken for all experience which has been recognized
for shortlisting purposes, experience in the public service will need to be
supported with a signed job description and PERSAL service record history
and experience from the private sector needs to be supported by a certificate
of service confirming the name of company, position held, periods of
employment and duties performed. Experience that cannot be verified will
result in the applicant being disqualified. All shortlisted candidates, including
the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
142
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/160 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: IMMOVABLE ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HO/CDIAM/062026
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive), to be structured in
accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services [SMS]
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF Level 7 qualification in Immovable Asset Management / Built
Environment / Commerce / Business Administration plus 5 years relevant
experience at a senior management level in relevant field. Proficiency in
relevant word processing, spreadsheet and presentation software packages.
Possession of a valid driver’s licence and an appropriate and applicable SMS
Pre-entry (Nyukela) Certificate to be submitted prior to appointment.
DUTIES : Manage and Facilitate Acquisition and Disposal. Manage and Facilitate
Provincial Information, Property Development and valuations. Manage and
develop strategies and ensure the formulation and development of policies and
procedures relevant to Immovable Asset management. Manage the resources
within the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr V Govender (Head of Department) Tel No: (033) 355 5533
POST 20/161 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL EPWP REF NO: HO/D/EPWP/062025
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive), to be structured in
accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services [SMS]
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF 7 qualification in Development Studies/Public
Administration/Public Management/Community Development/Built
Environment plus a minimum of 5 years middle/ senior management
experience in the Empowerment/Development Environment/Built
Environment. Proficiency in relevant word processing, spreadsheet and
presentation software packages. Possession of a valid drivers licence and an
appropriate and applicable SMS Pre-entry (Nyukela) Certificate to be
submitted prior to appointment.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate EPWP Provincial co-ordination. Manage and coordinate
municipal monitoring and evaluation. Manage and facilitate provision of
technical support to all EPWP stakeholders and Public Bodies. Manage the
development and implementation of policies. Manage the resources of the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr V Govender (Head of Department) Tel No: (033) 355 5533
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/162 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY SERVICES REF NO: HO/DDSS/062026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive), to be structured in accordance
with the rules for Middle Management Services [MMS]
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate and recognized NQF level 6 qualification in Security/ Police
Management plus 3 years relevant experience at a junior management level in
Security Management. Proficiency in relevant word processing, spreadsheet
and presentation software packages. Possession of a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of physical security support services for Personnel,
Asset, and Building. Develop and implement vetting and classified documents
policies and procedures. Ensure information security management. Develop
policies and strategies aimed at improving service delivery. Manage the
resources of the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mngomezulu Tel No: (033) 355 5443
POST 20/163 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LOGISTICS: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF
NO: HO/DDSCM/062026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive), to be structured in accordance
with the rules for Middle Management Services [MMS]
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate and recognised NQF level 7 qualification plus 3 years relevant
experience at a junior management level in related logistics management.
143
Proficiency in relevant word processing, spreadsheet and presentation
software packages. Possession of a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage stock count. Manage the issuing, receiving and distribution process.
Manage replenishment of stock. Develop policies and strategies aimed at
improving service delivery. Manage the resources of the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Mbili Tel No: (033) 355 5495
POST 20/164 : PROFESSIONAL CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER REF NO:
PCPM/NCR/062026
This is a re-advertisement; candidates are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R914 517 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : North Coast Region (Ulundi)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF7 qualification in the built environment. A minimum of 3
years relevant project management experience in the built environment.
Relevant experience will be determined based on the qualification of the
applicant as per the OSD. A valid driver’s licence and compulsory registration
with the SACPCMP as a Professional Construction Project Manager.
DUTIES : Commensurate with duties applicable to the above-mentioned occupation as
prescribed in the OSD.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ZE Mahaye Tel No: (035) 874 2394
POST 20/165 : ENGINEER (PRODUCTION) GRADE A (ELECTRICAL) REF NO:
ENG/CS/HO/062026 (X1 POST)
This is a re-advertisement; candidates are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R914 517 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pietermaritzburg)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree, 3 years post-qualification engineering
experience, compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer and
a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Commensurate with duties applicable to the above-mentioned occupation as
prescribed in the OSD.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TL Mchunu: Acting DDG: IMTS Tel No: (033) 260 3714
POST 20/166 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUDGETARY CONTROL REF NO:
ER/ADBPR/062026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Ethekwini Region (Durban)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate and recognized NQF level 7 qualification in Financial
Management plus 3 years relevant experience at a supervisory. Proficiency in
relevant word processing, spreadsheet and presentation software packages.
Possession of a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage and control the budget. Co-ordinate and consolidate estimates and
cash flows. Manage and monitor compliance as per Treasury Regulations,
Practice Notes and MTEF. Manage and control revenue collection. Manage the
resources of the Component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Phakathi at 082 344 9003
POST 20/167 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PROCUREMENT ADMINISTRATION
SERVICE AND BBBEE REF NO: HO/AOPA/062026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 or equivalent plus 3 years’ relevant experience in Supply Chain
Management environment. Proficiency in relevant word processing,
spreadsheet and presentation software packages. Possession of a valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Plan and coordinate briefings for internal and external stakeholders. Monitor
and Coordinate the appeals process and maintain Departmental Appeals
Register. Ensure BBEEE Compliance and Reporting. Ensure the
implementation of Sector score cards. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Zulu Tel No: (033) 355 5563
NOTE : NB. Recommended candidates will be subjected to a security clearance,
competency assessment and will also be required to disclose their financial
144
interests and will also be subjected to a technical assessment during the
selection process.
145
ANNEXURE Y
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF CO-OPERATIVE GOVERNANCE, HUMAN SETTLEMENTS AND TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
The Department of CoGHSTA is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment
decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department to achieve its employment
equity targets. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender, youth, and disability)
through the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote
representativity in line with the numerical targets as contained in our Employment Equity Plan. In filling
of vacant posts, the objectives of Section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108
of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) section 15 (Affirmative Action measures) and 20 (Employment Equity Plan) and relevant Human
Resources Policies and HR Plan of the department will be taken into consideration. In line with the
commitment to promoting representivity in the filling of entry-level positions, preference may be given to
unemployed youth and CoGHSTA’s interns and learners who have successfully completed their
respective skills development programmes.
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted online through
http://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za Hand delivered applications should be
submitted to 28 Market Street (Next to UNISA) Registry Office (First Floor by
16h00 daily) or alternatively post to The Director: HRMA&EW; Department of
Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs, Private
Bag X9485, Polokwane, 0700.
CLOSING DATE : 03 July 2026.
NOTE : The Department of Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements &
Traditional Affairs would like to invite suitably qualified candidates who are
creative, energetic, self-driven, and hardworking and have a passion for
improving the standard of living of citizens of Limpopo, to apply for the positions
as they appear below. Applications should be submitted on a New Z83 form
obtainable from all Public Service Departments or at www.dpsa.gov.za (must
be completed in full), and a comprehensive copy of your Curriculum Vitae only
(Certified copies of ID matric certificate, drivers’ license and qualifications will
be requested from shortlisted candidates only). The specific reference number
for the post must be quoted. SMS candidates are required to produce proof of
completion of National School of Government Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme prior to appointment. The course is obtainable on link:
https://www.thensg.govza/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme. Short-
listed candidates for the above posts will be subjected to a Security clearance
and verification of qualifications. Certified copies of educational qualifications
(or any other required certificates and/or results on the post), academic
records, identity documents and a valid driver’s license (where required) will
only be submitted by shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date, failure to produce the requested certified copies on the day of
the interview process, will result in an automatic disqualification from the
process. As per the DPSA directive on Human Resources Management &
Development for Public Service Professionalization Volume 1, number 1.32.1,
“All shortlisted candidates including SMS shall undertake two (2) pre-entry
assessments. One (1) will be a technical exercise, and the other one (1) will be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Following the interview process, the
selection panel will recommend SMS candidates to attend a psychometric
assessment as part of selection processes and competency assessment after
assumption of duty. Applicants with foreign qualifications remain responsible
for ensuring that their qualifications are evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Successful incumbents will be expected to
sign a performance agreement within one month after assumption of duty. The
successful candidate will also be required to disclose their financial interest in
accordance with the prescribed regulations. Failure to comply with the
requirements will result in the applicants being disqualified. Correspondence
will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted
within three months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept
that your application was unsuccessful. However, should there be any
dissatisfaction, applicants are hereby advised to seek reasons for the above
administration action in terms of Promotion of Administrative Justice Act
(PAJA), Act No.3 of 2000 The Department reserves the right NOT to make any
appointment to the posts advertised. The employment decision shall among
other determinations be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the
Department.
146
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/168 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL: TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS REF NO:
COGHSTA 01/26
Branch: Traditional Affairs
SALARY : R1 885 710 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus a qualification at NQF Level 8 in Anthropological Services/Social
Sciences, Law, Public Administration or related as recognized by SAQA.
Minimum Eight (8) Years of relevant experience at a senior managerial level
and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). SMS Pre-
Entry (Nyukela) Certificate prior to appointment. Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, TKLA,
legislations governing the institution of traditional leadership, legislative
framework governing the public service e.g., Public Service Act, Labour
Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Generic Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership; People Management and Empowerment; Programme and Project
Management; Financial Management. Change Management; Knowledge
Management; Service Delivery Innovation; Problem Solving and Analysis;
Client Orientation and Customer Focus; Communication (Verbal and written).
Technical competencies: Legislation interpretation; Secretariat of Statutory
structures; Coordination and monitoring skills; Legislation and/or Policy
implementation.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction and management to the Traditional Affairs Branch;
Oversee the establishment and functionality of Traditional Leadership
Institutions; Oversee the management and provision of administrative support
to various institutions of traditional leadership; Oversee, manage and monitor
the administration of initiation school; Oversee and coordinate the recognition
and events of traditional leaders. Manage resources (human, financial,
equipment/assets); Evaluate the performance of the branch on a continuing
basis against pre-determined key measurable objectives and standards;
Manage performance of staff and ensure assessment of their performance;
Build and lead a high-performing team by ensuring provision of mentorship,
coaching, and discipline of staff; Set clear goals and performance expectations
for the team and ensuring alignment with organizational objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ramagoshi Phuti Tel No: (015) 294 2225
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Female, White Female, Indian Female,
Persons with Disability
POST 20/169 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE SUPPORT REF NO:
COGHSTA 02/26
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Public
Administration / Management/Social Science or related field as recognized by
SAQA. Minimum 5 Years of relevant experience at senior managerial level in
the local government field and valid driver’s license (with exception of person
with disability). SMS Pre-Entry (Nyukela) Certificate prior to appointment. Core
and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant
prescripts, application of the legislative framework governing the public service
e.g., Public Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Generic
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership; People Management and
Empowerment; Programme and Project Management; Financial Management;
Change Management; Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation;
Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation and Customer Focus;
Communication (Verbal and written). Technical competencies: Legislation
interpretation; Coordination and monitoring skills; Legislation and/or Policy
implementation.
DUTIES : Facilitate support and oversight to enhance Municipal financial viability; Ensure
monitoring and evaluation of the performance of municipalities; Develop and
implement capacity building programs to improve institutional, administrative
and technical capabilities in municipalities. Ensure availability of systems and
processes in municipalities to improve governance and service delivery.
147
Coordinate collaboration and partnerships among various stakeholders to
support municipalities. Manage resources (human and physical).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ramagoshi Phuti Tel No: (015) 294 2225
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Female, White Female, Indian Female,
Persons with Disability
POST 20/170 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION AND ACCOUNTING.
REF NO: COGHSTA 03/26
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in
Accounting/Financial Management/Cost and Management Accounting or
Auditing as recognized by SAQA. Minimum 5 Years of relevant experience at
senior managerial level in the financial management field and valid driver’s
license (with exception of person with disability). SMS Pre-Entry (Nyukela)
Certificate prior to appointment. Core and Process Competencies: Sound and
in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, track record in preparation and
management of strategic plans, Knowledge of budget management processes
and administration, ability to implement and internal systems and controls to
ensure sound financial management, well vested in the PFMA and knowledge
of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Procurement
policies, Public Service Act, Understanding of the public services environment,
Government systems and structures, Financial management, Strategic
leadership. Generic Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership.
People Management and Empowerment. Programme and Project
Management. Financial Management. Change Management. Knowledge
Management, Service Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis.
Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication (Verbal and written).
Technical competencies: Legislation interpretation, Coordination and
monitoring skills; Policy formulation & implementation.
DUTIES : To oversee the management and provision of financial management within the
Department; Oversee Financial Accounting and Reporting in line with
applicable prescripts: Ensure accurate compilation of departmental annual
budget, MTEF budget, and maintaining effective standard chart of accounts for
the department; Prepare Annual and Adjustment Budgets for the Department;
Ensure efficient, economic, and effective control and management of budget
and expenditure; Ensure that full and proper records of the financial affairs of
the Department are kept in accordance with any prescribed norms and
standards; Oversee the preparation, analysis and submission of Departmental
monthly and quarterly expenditure reports and annual Financial Statements;
Oversee the preparation and submission of Departmental Oversight Financial
Reports to Provincial Legislature, Provincial Treasury; Manage resources
(human, financial, equipment/assets). Evaluate the performance of the Chief
Directorate on a continuing basis against pre-determined key measurable
objectives and standards; Manage performance of staff and ensure
assessment of their performance; Build and lead a high-performing team by
ensuring provision of mentorship, coaching, and discipline of staff. Set clear
goals and performance expectations for the team, ensuring alignment with
organizational objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ramagoshi Phuti Tel No: (015) 294 2225
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Female, White Female, Indian Male &
Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/171 : DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING. REF NO: COGHSTA 04/26
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Financial
Management/Financial Accounting/Cost & Management Accounting as
recognized by SAQA. Minimum 5 Years of experience at middle/senior
managerial level in the financial management field and valid driver’s license
(with exception of person with disability). SMS Pre-Entry (Nyukela) Certificate
prior to appointment. Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth
knowledge of PFMA and the broader government framework on financial
148
management, relevant prescripts, application of the legislative framework
governing the public service e.g., Procurement policies, Public Service Act,
understanding of the public services environment, Government systems and
structures, Financial management, Strategic leadership, knowledge and
experience of the budget policy framework and their due processes.
Knowledge of public service financial management systems (BAS, PERSAL
and Vulindlela). Knowledge of transfer payment regulations. Knowledge of
GAAP and GRAP. Strategic financial planning. Financial reporting and
analysis. Generic Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership. People
Management and Empowerment. Programme and Project Management.
Financial Management. Change Management. Knowledge Management,
Service Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis. Client Orientation
and Customer Focus, Communication (Verbal and written). Technical
competencies: Computer literacy, Policy formulation and implementation;
Adaptability to meet the goal during changes, Innovative thinking.
DUTIES : Manage the budgeting process; Manage compilation of Interim Financial
Statements (IFS) and Annual Financial Statements (AFS) in line with Modified
Cash Standards. Development and implementation of Financial Accounting
and Reporting measures; Manage revenue and expenditure management and
provide financial administration and accounting services; Manage 100%
reconciliation of general ledger towards a zero balance on the suspense
accounts and accurate expenditure interface, through monthly reconciliations.
Manage the entire payments and receipts sections including the reporting
aspects; Align financial plans with departmental strategic objectives and
Annual Performance Plans (APP); Coordinate budget hearings and
engagements with Provincial Treasury and oversight bodies, Manage financial
reporting and compliance services; Manage preparation of monthly, quarterly,
and annual financial reports, Ensure accurate and timely submission of In-Year
Monitoring (IYM) reports; Manage resources (human, financial,
equipment/assets). Manage performance of staff and ensure assessment of
their performance. Build and lead a high-performing team by ensuring provision
of mentorship, coaching, and discipline of staff. Set clear goals and
performance expectations for the team, ensuring alignment with organizational
objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mokhomole Makgano Tel No: (015) 294 2270
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Female, White Female, Indian Female,
Persons with Disability
POST 20/172 : DIRECTOR: LAND USE, DEEDS & STATUTORY BODIES REF NO:
COGHSTA 05/26
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Regional and Town
Planning or related as recognized by SAQA. Minimum 5 Years of experience
at a middle/senior managerial level and valid driver’s license (with exception of
person with disability). Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth
knowledge of relevant prescripts, Application of the legislative framework
governing the public service e.g., Public Service Act, Labour Relation Act,
PFMA, etc. Generic Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership,
Programme and project management, Financial management, Change
Management, Knowledge management, Service delivery innovation, Problem
solving and analysis, People management and empowerment, Client
orientation and customer focus, Communication.
DUTIES : Oversee Land Use Management; Oversee Deeds Services. Oversee Statutory
Bodies; Manage resources (Financial, human and physical).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mokhomole Makgano (015) 294 2270
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Female, White Female, Indian Female,
Persons with Disability.
POST 20/173 : DIRECTOR: HOUSE OF TRADITIONAL LEADERS REF NO: COGHSTA
06/26
Branch: Traditional Affairs
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
149
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Social Science /
Public Management / Public Administration and Governance or related as
recognized by SAQA. Minimum 5 Years of relevant experience at middle/senior
managerial level and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with
disability). SMS Pre-Entry (Nyukela) Certificate prior to appointment. Core and
Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts;
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g. Public
Service Act, TKLA, Labour Relation Act, PFMA; strong and dynamic strategic
leadership and communication skills; an understanding of the operational
environment of the Department and its delivery service imperatives; possess
experience in the stakeholder management; negotiation and corporate
governance; knowledge on the relevant policies/prescripts and procedures.
Generic Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership; People
Management and Empowerment; Programme and Project Management;
Financial Management; Change Management. Knowledge Management;
Service Delivery Innovation; Problem Solving and Analysis; Client Orientation
and Customer Focus; Service delivery Innovation (SDI); Communication
(Verbal and written). Technical competencies: Legislation interpretation;
Coordination and monitoring skills; Strong organizational and conflict
management skills; Legislation and/or Policy implementation, Adaptability
during changes to meet the goals.
DUTIES : Provide effective secretarial services for the Provincial House of Traditional
Leaders; Manage the formulation and implementation of programmes, policies
and laws affecting house of traditional leaders; Manage the establishment of
provincial and local houses of traditional leaders; Establish, maintain and
ensure a good working relationship within the department and relevant
stakeholders; Manage resources (human, financial, equipment/assets);
Manage performance of staff and ensure assessment of their performance.
Build and lead a high-performing team by ensuring provision of mentorship,
coaching, and discipline of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mokhomole Makgano Tel No: (015) 294 2270
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Female, White Female, Indian Female,
Persons with Disability
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/174 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER REF NO: COGHSTA 07/26
(X3 POSTS)
Branch: ISHS
SALARY : R1 317 108 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (OSD)
CENTRE : Mopani, Capricorn & Sekhukhune
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Built Environment
field as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 6 years’ experience as a registered
Professional Construction Project Manager with the SACPCMP; and valid
driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of knowledge of programme
and project management; knowledge of Town planning application of the
legislative framework governing the public service; National Building
Regulations & standard; SANS 10400 Building Regulations; Occupational
Health & safety Act, Human Settlement Planning & Design, National Housing
Code, PFMA etc. Project design and analysis; legal and operational
compliance as well as the creation of a high-performance culture; Applicable
legislation and prescripts in the Project Management field; Civil and
Construction industries. Generic Competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership; People Management and Empowerment; Programme & Project
Management; Financial Management; Change Management; Knowledge
Management; Client orientation & Customer focus; Problem Solving &
Analysis, Communication (verbal & written). Technical competencies:
Coordination and monitoring skills; Analytic skills; Strong organizational and
conflict management skills; Facilitation skills; Legislation and/or Policy
implementation.
DUTIES : Manage construction projects; Conduct technical and Integrity inspections on
various construction assets. Ensure that construction projects are implemented
in line with the NHBRC requirements and standards; Ensure that appointed
consultants manage the quality of work within their professional scope and
responsibility; Ensure that contractors timeously receive all relevant
150
specifications and details to construct. Adjudicate all applications of variation
orders and extensions of time and make recommendations to the approving
authority within the Department. Monitor the performance of Project Managers
under his/her supervision. Mentor, develop and offer technical support to
improve performance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Monkoe Mphodi Tel No: (015) 294 2223
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/175 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING
REF NO: COGHSTA 08/26
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF 6) in Public
Management/Municipal Administration or related as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience within the environment of which three (3) years
MUST be at Assistant Director/Junior Management level and valid driver’s
license (with exception of person with disability). Core and Process
Competencies: Extensive knowledge of Municipal and Public Service
Regulations and related Legislative Frameworks Generic Competencies:
Negotiation skills, Presentation skills, Strategic management, Project
management, Managerial skills, Communications skills, Innovation, Creative
and analytical thinking, Financial Management, Report writing, Sound
organizational skills, High level of reliability.
DUTIES : Develop/review and implementation of municipal provincial capacity building
framework; Strengthening institutional capacity and support municipalities
through implementation of the Professionalization Framework of the Public
Sector. Manage the implementation of municipal staff regulations. Conduct
training and provide on-going support towards the roll out of Municipal Staff
Regulations; Monitor municipal staff establishment; Manage the extent to
which anti-fraud and corruption measures are implemented in municipalities;
Manage municipal workplace skill plans.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Monkoe Mphodi Tel No: (015) 294 2223
NOTE : EE Target: African Male & Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female,
Indian Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/176 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
COGHSTA 09/26
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R1 101 468 (Level 12), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF 6) in Public Administration,
Project Management/ Developmental Studies/Economics as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of 5 years’ experience within the environment of which three
(3) years must be at Assistant Director /Junior Management level and valid
driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Public
Service Act, Labour Relation Act, National/LED framework, MSDP; Municipal
LED strategies, Provincial Spatial Rationale, PFMA/MFMA, Constitution. White
Paper on Local Govt, National Development Plan & Limpopo Development
Plan; Generic Competencies: Negotiation skills, Presentation skills, People
management skills, Time management, Communication, both formal, and
informal; Project mgt skill, Leadership skill, Financial mgt skill, People
Management skill, Analytic skills, Investment Analysis Research skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate and manage functionality of Municipal and Provincial LED forum;
Manage the development and review of Municipal LED strategies; Coordinate
the implementation of LED initiatives and intervention; Monitor the
development and roll-out of public employment programme (Community Work
Programme & EPWPP within the Province). Support implementation of Small-
Town revitalization programme and Integrated Urban Development
Framework.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Monkoe Mphodi Tel No: (015) 294 2223
151
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/177 : CONTROL GIS TECHNOLOGIST REF NO: COGHSTA 10/26
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R958 776 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (OSD).
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in GIS as recognized
by SAQA. Minimum three years post qualification GISc professional
experience required and a valid driver’s license. Compulsory registration with
the PLATO. Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge
of Geographical Information System, application of the legislative framework
governing the public service e.g., PAIA, Spatial Data Infrastructure Act, SITA,
SPLUMA, SDF, NSDP, PGDS, PFMA, etc. Generic Competencies: People
Management and Empowerment, Programme & Project Management,
Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management,
Client orientation & Customer focus, Problem Solving & Analysis,
Communication.
DUTIES : Design, plan and perform advanced GISc analysis to address organizations
strategic objective; Maintain GIS unit effectiveness; Provide governance
services; Provide project and financial management service; Manage
stakeholder issues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/178 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECRETARIAT OF THE HOUSE OF TRADITIONAL
LEADERS REF NO: COGHSTA 11/26
Branch: Traditional Affairs
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public
Management/ Office Admin / Public Administration and Governance or related
as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years’ experience within the
environment of which three (3) years must be at Assistant Director / Junior
Management level and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with
disability). Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge
of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative framework governing the
public service e.g., Public Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, Limpopo
House of Traditional Leaders and Traditional Leadership ACT 4, etc. Generic
Competencies: People Management and Empowerment, Programme &
Project Management, Financial Management, Change Management,
Knowledge Management, Client orientation & Customer focus, Problem
Solving & Analysis, Communication.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate activities of the executive committee of the Houses;
Manage and monitor the activities of portfolio committees; Manage the
implementation of legislation and programmes of the houses; Manage and
coordinate the establishment of provincial and local houses; Manage and
facilitate sittings of the members of local and provincial houses; Manage and
maintain cooperative intergovernmental relations within the department and
other stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Monkoe Mphodi Tel No: (015) 294 2223
NOTE : EE Target: African Male & Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female,
Indian Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/179 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEVELOPMENTAL PROGRAMMES & RPL REF NO:
COGHSTA 12/26
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Human Resource
Management/ Human Resource Development/ Management of Training/Public
Administration as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years’ experience
within the environment of which three (3) years must be at Assistant Director /
152
Junior Management level and valid driver’s license (with exception of person
with disability). Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth
knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative framework
governing the public service e.g., Cabinet EXCO`s Decision: Cabinet Minute
No 5.5 April 25,2001, Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Growth and
Development Summit Agreement,2003, Human Resource Development
Strategy,2001, Human Resource Development Strategy for the Public
Service,2002-2006, National Skills Development Strategy for NSDS 2001-
2005, National Skills Development Strategy for NSDS 2006-2010, Public
Service Act,103 of 1994, Public Service Regulations,2001, Skills Development
Act, No 97 of 1998, Skills Development Levies Act, No 9 of 1999, The South
African Qualification Act,58 of 1995, Toolkit for Recruitment and Selection,
Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Generic
Competencies: People Management and Empowerment, Talent management;
Programme & Project Management, Financial Management, Change
Management, Knowledge Management, Client orientation & Customer focus,
Problem Solving & Analysis, Communication.
DUTIES : Develop and review learnerships and internships policies and strategies;
Manage the internship and experiential learning programme; Manage the
learnership programme; Manage the mentorship program; Manage recognition
of prior learning programme.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Monkoe Mphodi Tel No: (015) 294 2223
NOTE : EE Target: African Male & Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female,
Indian Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/180 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BATHO PELE REF NO: COGHSTA 13/26
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public
Management/Public Administration or Equivalent as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience within the Service Delivery Improvement
Mechanisms/Interventions environment of which three (3) years must be at
Assistant Director / Junior Management level and valid driver’s license (with
exception of person with disability). Core and Process Competencies: Batho
Pele Principles, PFMA, Performance Management, Public Service
Regulations. Generic Competencies: People Management and Empowerment,
Programme & Project Management, Financial Management, Change
Management, Knowledge Management, Client orientation & Customer focus,
Problem Solving & Analysis, Communication.
DUTIES : Manage the development and review of Service Standards; Charter and
Citizens' report; Manage the Development and review of Service Standards
and Service Delivery Charter; Publish the approved Service Standards and
Service Charter on the website; and monitor compliance with Service
Standards; provide support and input on the monitoring and evaluation report
of Service Standards and Charter for submission purposes; Monitor community
and coalface engagements, plan and implement public service
week/month/day, coordinate the implementation of service delivery awards
programmes, including Service Excellence Awards or similar, implement and
ensure all relevant documentation is submitted for entry into the awards,
implement SMS deployments and site visits (Khaedu), plan and liaise with
HRM&D to conduct Batho Pele training for newly appointed staff, conduct
unannounced visits to service delivery sites.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mokhomole Makgano Tel No: (015) 294 2270
NOTE : EE Target: African Male & Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female,
Indian Male & Female, Persons with Disability.
POST 20/181 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HR PLANNING, INFORMATION & SYSTEMS REF
NO: COGHSTA 14/26
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public
Administration/ Human Resources Management as recognized by SAQA.
PERSAL results / certificate. Valid PERSAL Controller certificate will be an
153
added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience within the environment of
which three (3) years must be at Assistant Director / Junior Management level
and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core and
Process Competencies: Experience in condition of services / Establishment
Management and PERSAL system. Sound and in-depth knowledge and
understanding of government policies, public service regulations, PFMA,
treasury regulations as well as the legislative framework governing the public
service. Knowledge of Public Service Act (PSA), Public Service Regulation
(PSR), Employment Equity Act (EEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA), Basic
Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA) and in-depth knowledge of PERSAL
and BAS. GENERIC COMPETENCIES: People Management and
Empowerment, Programme & Project Management, Financial Management,
Change Management, Knowledge Management, Client orientation & Customer
focus, Problem Solving & Analysis, Communication. Technical competencies:
PERSAL, Computer, Organizing and planning. Knowledge of PERSAL.
DUTIES : Manage and ensure proper utilization of the HRM systems. Monitor Human
Resources information system. Oversee HR databases (e.g. PERSAL),
ensuring data quality, coordinating system upgrades and maintenance.
Manage and monitor PERSAL activities in the department, including personnel
and salary controllers, activities on PERSAL system. Register and maintain
user profiles for all users and allocate functions in line with individual scope of
work as per the job description. Monitor the suspense and transaction files as
well as follows up all questionable transactions. Manage risk, audit and
resources. Manage the implementation of the Human Resource Plan; Manage
and review the Employment Equity (EE) plan; Manage retention and career
management strategy; Manage departmental staff establishment; Manage the
updating of HR Information Management System (HRIMS).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mokhomole Makgano Tel No: (015) 294 2270
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Male, Indian Male
& Female, Persons with Disability.
POST 20/182 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ICT SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT REF NO: COGHSTA
15/26
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Information
Communication Technology as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 5 years’
experience within the ICT environment of which three (3) years must be at
Assistant Director / Junior Management level and valid driver’s license (with
exception of person with disability). Core and Process Competencies: Sound
and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts and the legislative framework
governing the public service, including: Public Service Act, Labour Relations
Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Business process analysis and
modelling, System development lifecycle (SDLC) and IT governance
frameworks (COBIT, ITIL, ISO 27001) Experience in project leadership and
management. Demonstrable proficiency in software languages and multi-tier
architectures (e.g., C#, ASP.NET, Java, HTML5, Oracle, and MS SQL). Generic
Competencies: People Management and Empowerment, Programme &
Project Management, Financial Management, Change Management,
Knowledge Management, Client orientation & Customer focus, Problem
Solving & Analysis, Communication. Technical Skills: Advanced System
Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies (Agile, Scrum, Kanban), ICT
project management, IT service management, and software architecture,
Expertise in database design, backup and recovery, and data security
frameworks, Business process analysis, System development and
administration, ICT project management, Database management.
DUTIES : Manage analysis of the departmental business strategic needs; Manage
maintenance and enhancement of systems in the department; Manage the
development and implementation of systems; Manage the detailed design of
the solution to guide the development phase; Implement enhancements for all
customised software Applications; Monitor the maintenance of all customized
software applications; Engage with other ICT teams to deliver ICT solutions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
NOTE : EE Target: African Male & Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female,
Indian Male & Female, Persons with Disability
154
POST 20/183 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SALARIES REF NO: COGHSTA 16/26
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Financial
Management, Accounting, Commerce, Cost & Management Accounting or
related as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 5 years’ experience within the
Finance environment of which three (3) years must be at Assistant Director
/Junior Management level and valid driver’s license (with exception of person
with disability). Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth
knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative framework
governing the public service e.g., BAS, PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury regulation,
Batho Pele principles, DORA, public service act, computer literacy and
delegation of authority. Generic Competencies: People Management and
Empowerment, Programme & Project Management, Financial Management,
Change Management, Knowledge Management, Client orientation & Customer
focus, Problem Solving & Analysis, Communication skills (written & verbal).
Technical Skills: knowledge of BAS, PERSAL
DUTIES : Monitor payroll services; Manage reconciliation of allowance and deductions;
Manage processing of salary freeze and recalls; Manage misallocation on
BAS.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
NOTE : EE Target: African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian Male
& Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/184 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: COGHSTA 17/26
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Strategic
Management/ Business Administration/ Business Management/ Public
Management or Public Administration or related as recognized by SAQA.
Minimum of 5 years’ experience within the strategy and planning environment
of which three (3) years MUST be at Assistant Director / Junior Management
level and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core
and Process Competencies: Experience in the development, monitoring, and
reporting of indicators at the project/sub-program or program level. Sound and
in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, legislative framework governing the
public service e.g. Public Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, Knowledge
and understanding of the regulatory requirements that impact planning in the
Human Settlements, Local Government and Traditional Affairs sectors.
Knowledge and understanding of government planning practices,
Understanding of the public services environment, Strategic Management.
Generic Competencies: People Management and Empowerment, Programme
& Project Management, Financial Management, Change Management,
Knowledge Management, Client orientation & Customer focus, Problem
Solving & Analysis, Communication.
DUTIES : Manage the process of reviewing Strategic Plan; Manage the process of
reviewing APP; Manage the compilation of the annual departmental
operational plan; Manage the development of Service Delivery Improvement
Plan (SDIP); Manage the audit process for pre-determined objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/185 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER: HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
PROJECTSREF NO: COGHSTA 18/26
Branch: ISHS
SALARY : R914 517 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (OSD).
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification–National Diploma in (Built
Environment Field) (NQF Level 6) with a minimum of 4 years and six months
certified experience. BTech (Built Environment Field) (NQF Level 7) with a
155
minimum of 4 years certified managerial experience. Honours degree in any
Built Environment field with a minimum of 3 years’ experience. Valid driver’s
license. Compulsory registration with the SACPCMP as a Professional
Construction Project Manager on appointment. Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of Town planning, application
of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Ability to manage
multiple projects under pressure, National Building Regulations & standard,
SANS 10400 Building Regulations, Occupational Health & Safety Act, Human
Settlement Planning & Design, National Housing Code, PFMA etc. Skills &
Competencies: People Management; Financial Management; Planning and
organizing skills; Interpersonal skills. Client orientation & Customer focus;
Problem Solving & Analysis; Good communication skills (verbal & written);
Planning and organizing skills; Interpersonal skills; Ability to work under
pressure and be self-motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Oversee and direct construction projects from conception to completion.
Manage project cost overruns daily and ensure a balance between project non-
financial and financial performance. Meet contractual conditions of
performance. Ensure adherence to all health and safety standards and report
issues. Undertake contract reviews on a regular basis and take necessary
consequence management where performance is not satisfactory. Develop
and manage project implementation plans, budgets, risk registers and progress
reports. Coordinate technical inputs from built-environment professionals and
specialists. Management of Intergovernmental relations between key
stakeholders in the built industry and municipality.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/186 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
REF NO: COGHSTA 19/26
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public
Administration/Social Science or related as recognized by SAQA; Minimum (3)
years relevant experience at supervisory level and valid driver’s license (with
exception of person with disability). Core and Process Competencies: Sound
and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of human resources
as well as understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public
Service such as: Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Public Service Act,
Administrative Justice Act, Promotion of Access of Information Act, Public
Service Regulations and various Bargaining Council Resolutions. Skills and
Knowledge: People Management; Financial Management; Planning and
organizing skills; Interpersonal skills. Client orientation & Customer focus;
Problem Solving & Analysis; Good communication skills (verbal & written);
Planning and organizing skills; Interpersonal skills; Ability to work under
pressure and be self-motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Coordinate the integrated development interventions in partnership with other
relevant stakeholders; Coordinate community development service delivery
area(s) to ensure that efficient and effective community development service
is delivered; Coordinate research on community development. Support
municipalities to respond to community concerns; Manage the team and
undertake all administrative functions required and report on progress as
required; Develop implement and maintain processes to ensure proper control
of work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/187 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
BUILDING REF NO: COGHSTA 20/26
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
156
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public
Administration/Management/Municipal Administration or related as recognized
by SAQA; Minimum (3) years relevant experience at supervisory level and valid
driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of human resources as well as understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service, Extensive knowledge of Municipal
and Public Service Regulations and related Legislative Frameworks. Skills and
Knowledge: People Management; Financial Management; Planning and
organizing skills; Interpersonal skills. Client orientation & Customer focus;
Problem Solving & Analysis; Good communication skills (verbal & written);
Planning and organizing skills; Interpersonal skills; Ability to work under
pressure and be self-motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Coordinate the development/review and implementation of municipal provincial
capacity building framework; Coordinate the implementation of municipal staff
regulations; Provide support on municipal staff establishment; Coordinate the
extent to which anti-fraud and corruption measures are implemented in
municipalities; Coordinate municipal workplace skill plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
NOTE : EE Target: African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian Male
& Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/188 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC STATUTORY PLANNING REF NO:
COGHSTA 21/26
Branch: Cooperative Governance
Re-advertisement, those who have applied previously need to re-apply
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in
Development/Urban/Statutory/Town & Regional/Built Environmental Planning
including Information Administration & Technology or related as recognized by
SAQA. Minimum (3) years relevant experience at supervisory level and valid
driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Public
Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, SPUMA, Proclamation R 293/62, 45
of 1990, Deeds Registries Act,47 of 1937 and Proclamation 45 of 1990. Skills
and Knowledge: People Management; Financial Management; Planning and
organizing skills; Interpersonal skills. Client orientation & Customer focus;
Problem Solving & Analysis; Good communication skills (verbal & written);
Planning and organizing skills; Interpersonal skills; Ability to work under
pressure and be self-motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Facilitate stakeholder engagement and satisfaction; Facilitate the
establishment and operational efficiency of municipal planning tribunals;
Ensure compliance and quality assurance in land development applications;
Facilitate operational effectiveness and compliance of municipal planning and
appeal tribunals; Ensure assessment and information gathering for land
development applications; Coordinate administrative support for municipal
planning tribunal meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
NOTE : EE Target: African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian Male
& Female, Persons with Disability.
POST 20/189 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUBSIDY ADMINISTRATION REF NO: COGHSTA
22/26
Branch: ISHS
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public
Management/Administration or related as recognized by SAQA; Minimum (3)
years relevant experience at supervisory level and valid driver’s license (with
exception of person with disability). Core and Process Competencies: Sound
and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative
framework governing the public service e.g., Public Service Act, Labour
Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Housing Act no. 107 of 1997, Breaking new grounds,
157
Social Housing Act, Flisp, National Housing Code of 2009, Rental Housing Act,
Housing Code, Military Veterans Act, First Home Finance policy framework,
Housing Subsidy System. Skills & Competencies: People Management;
Financial Management; Planning and organizing skills; Interpersonal skills.
Client orientation & Customer focus; Problem Solving & Analysis; Good
communication skills (verbal & written); Planning and organizing skills;
Interpersonal skills; Ability to work under pressure and be self-motivated;
Attention to details.
DUTIES : Coordinate the administration of subsidy application processes; Coordinate the
Housing Demand Database; Coordinate the Housing Subsidy System (HSS)
and National Housing Needs Register (NHNR); Coordinate and ensures that
correct beneficiaries occupy the correct houses approved in line with the status
report; Coordinate the implementation of the ministerial prioritized
programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Monyela Hlokammoni Tel No: (015) 294 2073
NOTE : EE Target: African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian Male
& Female, Persons with Disability.
POST 20/190 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION SERVICES REF NO: COGHSTA
23/26
Branch: Financial Management Services
Re-advertisement, those who have applied previously need to re-apply
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Supply Chain
Management or related as recognized by SAQA. Minimum (3) years relevant
experience at supervisory level in SCM environment and valid driver’s license
(with exception of person with disability). Core and Process Competencies:
Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the
legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Public Service Act,
Labour Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Skills & Competencies: People Management;
Financial Management; Planning and organizing skills; Interpersonal skills.
Client orientation & Customer focus; Problem Solving & Analysis; Good
communication skills (verbal & written); Planning and organizing skills;
Interpersonal skills; Ability to work under pressure and be self-motivated;
Attention to details.
DUTIES : Coordinate (synergise), review and execute the bidding process; Coordinate,
review and compile the list of prospective providers for quotations; Coordinate,
review and sourcing quotations from the database according to the threshold
value determined by National Treasury; Supervise employees to ensure an
effective acquisition management service and undertake all administrative
functions required with regards to financial and HR administration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
NOTE : EE Target: African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian Male
& Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/191 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MISCONDUCT AND DISPUTES REF NO:
COGHSTA 24/26
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Labour
Relations/Labour Law/LLB as recognized by SAQA. Minimum (3) years
relevant experience at supervisory level in Labour Relations environment and
valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core and
Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge and understanding
public service legislations, regulations & labour laws (LRA, BCEA, EEA, Skills
Development Act, COIDA, OHSA, Public Service Act & Regulations),
Conciliation & Arbitration processes; PCSBC & GPSSBC Resolutions, Rules
for the Conduct of proceedings before the CCMA/ GPSSBC. Skills and
Knowledge: Computer literacy; Good communication skills (verbal & written);
Planning and organizing skills; Interpersonal skills. Ability to work under
pressure and be self-motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the Investigation of misconduct & conduct disciplinary hearings;
Coordinate investigations on grievances and disputes; Compile investigation
158
reports and make recommendations to the Deputy Director for further
processing; Facilitate grievance resolution during grievance meetings;
Conduct training on grievances and disputes; Represent the department on the
disputes referred to GPSSBC, CCMA, PSCBC, and the Labour Court; Co-
ordinate the Drafting of legal opinions on Labour matters; Co-ordinate
awareness programmes on the Code of Conduct.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/192 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ICT INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: COGHSTA
25/26
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Information
Systems/ Information Infrastructure as recognized by SAQA. CompTIA A+ and
N+ will be an added advantage. Minimum (3) years relevant experience at
supervisory level in ICT environment and valid driver’s license (with exception
of person with disability). Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-
depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative framework
governing the public service e.g. Public Service Act, Labour Relation Act,
PFMA, COBIT, ITIL, etc. Business process analysis and modelling, Experience
in project leading and management. Skills and Knowledge: Computer literacy;
Good communication skills (verbal & written); Planning and organizing skills;
Interpersonal skills. Ability to work under pressure and be self-motivated;
Attention to details.
DUTIES : Develop Infrastructure plans for the Department; Maintain server environment
within the Department and Municipalities; Maintain network infrastructure for
the Department and Municipalities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability.
POST 20/193 : LOCAL COORDINATOR REF NO: COGHSTA 26/26/1-3 (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Musina Ref No: CoGHSTA 26/26/1
Makhado Ref No: CoGHSTA 26/26/2
Ephraim Mogale Ref No: CoGHSTA 26/26/3
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Community
Development, Public Admin/related as recognized by SAQA. Minimum 2 years
in Community Development Programme and valid driver’s license (with
exception of person with disability). Core and Process Competencies: Sound
and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of human resources
as well as understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public
Service such as: Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Public Service Act,
Administrative Justice Act, Promotion of Access of Information Act, Public
Service Regulations and various Bargaining Council Resolutions. Skills and
Knowledge: Good communication skills (verbal & written; Planning and
organizing skills; Interpersonal skills; Ability to work under pressure and be self-
motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Facilitate compilation of ward profile; Facilitate identification of service delivery
cases; Facilitate identification of community concerns; Monitor household
visits.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability (Musina 26/-26/1). EE Target: African
Male & Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian Male &
Female, Persons with Disability (Makhado 26/26/2). EE Target: African
Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian Male & Female,
Persons with Disability (Ephraim Mogale 26/26/3)
159
POST 20/194 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: ACQUISITION SERVICES REF NO: COGHSTA
27/26
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Supply Chain
Management or related as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 2 years in Supply
chain Management field and valid driver’s license (with exception of disabled
applicants). Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge
of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative framework governing the
public service e.g., Public Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, Broad
Based Black Management Act, SCM Framework, Preferential Procurement
Regulations, Bid Committee Process. Skills and Knowledge: Computer
literacy; Good communication skills; Planning and organizing skills;
Interpersonal skills. Communication skills (verbal & written); Interpersonal
relations; Ability to work under pressure and be self-motivated; Attention to
details; Time management; Presentation skills; People management skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate and administer sourcing of quotations and bids; Administer receipt
and safekeeping of bid documents; Provide secretariat and logistical support
to bid committees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
NOTE : EE Target: African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian Male
& Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/195 : CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT FACILITATOR: TRAINING AND CAPACITY
DEVELOPMENTREF NO: COGHSTA 28/26
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Human Resource
Management/Management Training/Public Administration as recognized by
SAQA. Minimum of 2 years relevant experience and valid driver’s license (with
exception of person with disability). Core and Process Competencies: Sound
and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts and the legislative framework
governing the public service, including: Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa, State of the Nation Address {SONA}, State of the Province Address
{SOPA}, MEC’s Address, Provincial Growth and Development Strategy,
National Human Resource Development Strategy, Provincial Human
resources Strategy, Departmental Human Resource Strategy, National Skills
Development for NSDS, Public Service Regulations, 2001, Skills Development
Act, No 97 of 1999, Skills Development Levies Act, No 9 of 1999, The South
African Qualification Act,58 of 1995, White Paper on HRD, Labour Relations
Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Skills and Knowledge: Good
interpersonal relations; Presentation/Facilitation/coordination skills; Computer
literacy; Planning and organizing skills; Communication skills (verbal & written);
Ability to work under pressure and be self-motivated; Attention to details;
Report writing.
DUTIES : Administer the compilation, consolidation, approval, and implementation of the
Workplace Skills Plan. Administer the registration and professional interviews
with the Professional bodies; Administer orientation and induction of
employees; Administer the internal bursaries; Administer Skills Audit;
Administer Recognition of Improved Qualification
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/196 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER-ASSET SERVICES REF NO: COGHSTA 29/26
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Supply Chain
/Financial or Asset Management or related as recognized by SAQA. Minimum
of 2 years relevant experience and valid driver’s license (with exception of
person with disability). Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth
160
knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative framework
governing the public service e.g., Public Service Act, Labour Relation Act,
PFMA, etc. Skills and Knowledge: Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy;
Good communication skills; Planning and organizing skills; Interpersonal skills.
Communication skills (verbal & written); Ability to work under pressure and be
self-motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Facilitate the updating of asset register; Facilitate and conduct assets
verification process; Facilitate process of assets disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
NOTE : EE Target: African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability.
POST 20/197 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: HUMAN SETTLEMENT PERFORMANCE
REPORTING REF NO: COGHSTA 30/26
Branch: ISHS
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public
Administration/Management/Development Studies or related as recognized by
SAQA; Minimum of 2 years relevant experience and valid South African driver’s
license (with exception of person with disability). Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts;
application of the legislative framework governing the public service;
Comprehensive understanding of Housing Legislation, Policy and other related
directives, Understanding of the payment method and procedures of the
Department; Good understanding of finance; administration and information
management processes; National Housing Code. Skills & Competencies:
Report Writing, Computer literacy; Good communication skills; Planning and
organizing skills; Interpersonal skills. Communication skills (verbal & written);
Ability to work under pressure and be self-motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Facilitate the program progress reports; Administer and validate happy letter;
Update progress milestones on HSS; Internal Job Creation (EPWP Incentive
Grant); External Job Creation (Infrastructure projects); Capture Business plan
on Table B5(project list); Update the non-financials and financials on IRM after
the approval of business plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
NOTE : EE Target: African Male & Female, Coloured Male & Female White Female,
Indian Male & Female, Persons with Disability.
POST 20/198 : MONITORING AND EVALUATION PRACTITIONER REF NO: COGHSTA
31/26
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Local
Government/Public Management/ Administration or related as recognized by
SAQA; Minimum of 2 years relevant experience and valid South African driver’s
license (with exception of person with disability). Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of the legislative framework governing the public service,
Understanding of the public service environment, Municipal Structures Act,
Municipal Systems Act, Municipal Finance Management Act, Public Finance
Management Act, Integrated Development Planning, Performance Monitoring
and Evaluation, General Management, Strategic Planning, Service Delivery,
Governance Issues, Relevant Legislation, Financial Management,
Development and Planning. Skills and Knowledge: Negotiation skills,
Presentation skills; Time management; Computer literacy; Good
communication skills; Planning and organizing skills; Interpersonal skills.
Communication skills (verbal & written); Interpersonal relations; Ability to work
under pressure and be self-motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Facilitate the MEC reports on the state of municipalities; Facilitate the
monitoring and evaluation of the performance of municipalities on a periodic
basis in compliance with the MSA & MFMA; Facilitate the implementation of
PMS of PMS by municipalities on annual basis; Support municipalities with the
161
implementation of the individual PMS; Facilitate the monitoring of the
employment contracts of s57 Managers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
NOTE : EE Target: African Male & Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female,
Indian Male & Female, Persons with Disability.
POST 20/199 : HOUSING SUBSIDY SYSTEMS ANALYST REF NO: COGHSTA 32/26
Branch: ISHS
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public
Administration/ Financial Accounting or related as recognized by SAQA;
Minimum of 2 years relevant experience and valid South African driver’s
license (with exception of person with disability). Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Public
Service Act, Labour Relations Act, PFMA, etc. Housing Act no. 107 of 1997,
Breaking new grounds, Social Housing Act, Flisp, National Housing Code of
2009, Rental Housing Act, Housing Code, Military Veterans Act, First Home
Finance policy framework. Housing Subsidy Systems. Skills And Knowledge:
Negotiation skills; Presentation skills; People management skills; Time
management; Communication, both formal, and informal; Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and implement the effective running of Housing Subsidy System,
Housing Subsidy Portal and National Housing Needs Register. Analyze HSS
and identify areas for improvement and propose new or enhanced solutions.
Provides training to end-users on HSS, HSS Online, NHNR and offers ongoing
support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Palmer Olivia Tel No: (015) 294 2094
NOTE : EE Target: African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian Male
& Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/200 : ADMIN OFFICER: ACQUISITION SERVICES REF NO: COGHSTA 33/26 (X2
POSTS)
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Supply Chain
Management or related as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 1 year in Supply
chain Management field and valid driver’s license (with exception of disabled
applicants). Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge
of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative framework governing the
public service e.g., Public Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Skills
and Knowledge: Computer literacy; Planning and organizing skills;
Administration, Report writing, Communication skills (verbal & written); Ability
to work under pressure and be self-motivated; Attention to details; Time
management. Good communication skills; Interpersonal skills. Communication
Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Sourcing and administration of quotations; Administration of bid documents;
Render secretariat support to bid committees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malahlela Nora Tel No: (015) 294 2224
NOTE : EE Target: Youth, African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability.
POST 20/201 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION
REF NO: COGHSTA 34/26
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Human Resource
Management/ Personnel Management or Public Administration as recognized
by SAQA; Minimum of 1-year relevant experience and valid South African
driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
Knowledge and understanding public service legislations, Public Service Act,
162
Public Service Regulation, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Human Resource Directives and Determinations. Skills and
Knowledge: Presentation/Facilitation, Report Writing, Computer literacy; Time
management, Communication skills (verbal & written); Analytical PERSAL
administration, Secretarial; Ability to work under pressure and be self-
motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Administering of advertised vacant posts on the structure; Coordinate selection
processes; Facilitate PERSAL appointments; Coordination of placements;
Facilitate acting appointments and transfers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malahlela Nora Tel No: (015) 294 2224
NOTE : EE Target: Youth, African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/202 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: HOUSING FINANCE & CONTRACTUAL PAYMENT
REF NO: COGHSTA 35/26 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Financial
Management or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA; Minimum of
1 year experience and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with
disability). Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge
of relevant prescripts, application of the legislative framework governing the
public service, e.g., BAS, PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury regulation, Batho-Pele
principles, Dora, Public Service Act, Computer literacy and delegation of
authority. Skills and Knowledge: Time management; Computer skills,
Numeracy skills; Conflict resolution skills; Computer literacy; Planning and
organising skills; Interpersonal skills. Communication skills (verbal & written);
Ability to work under pressure and be self-motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Receive, register and verify payment claims from Claims and Contract
Management; Check and verify availability of accompanying documents; Verify
beneficiaries’ lists with HSS approved status report; Reporting; safekeeping of
claims for audit purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malahlela Nora Tel No: (015) 294 2224
NOTE : EE Target: Youth, African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/203 : ADMIN OFFICER: DISASTER RISK ASSESSMENT & REDUCTION REF
NO: COGHSTA 36/26 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Disaster
Management or related as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 1 year
experience and valid driver’s license (with exception of disabled applicants).
Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant
prescripts, Disaster and emergency services, Disaster Management Act,
Legislation and regulations, Local government and environment. Skills &
Competencies: Computer literacy; Coordination skills, Office management;
Interpersonal skills. Communication skills (verbal & written); Administration
skill; Ability to work under pressure and be self-motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Ensure the compilation of integrated disaster risk management plans; Conduct
risk assessment services; Implement disaster risk reduction plans and
programmes
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malahlela Nora Tel No: (015) 294 2224
NOTE : EE Target: Youth, African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability
POST 20/204 : ADMIN OFFICER: ASSURANCE SERVICES REF NO: COGHSTA 37/26
Branch: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Financial
Accounting / Internal Auditing as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 1 year
163
experience. Core and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge
of relevant prescripts, Accounting and auditing standards, Public Finance and
Auditing, Public Administration, Relationship management, Communication,
Performance management. Skills and Knowledge: Accounting & auditing,
Computer literacy; Planning and organizing skills; Interpersonal skills.
Communication skills (verbal & written); Ability to work under pressure and be
self-motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Implement internal control plans and framework; Provide administrative
assurance services; Facilitate with Treasury, Internal Audit, Auditor-General
and other Stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malahlela Nora Tel No: (015) 294 2224
NOTE : EE Target: Youth, African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability.
POST 20/205 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT WORKER REF NO: COGHSTA 38/26/1-10
(X10 POSTS)
Branch: Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Blouberg Ward 06 Ref No: CoGHSTA 38/26/1
Lepelle-Nkumpi Ward 19 Ref No: CoGHSTA 38/26/2
Mogalakwena Ward 01 Ref No: CoGHSTA 38/26/3
Mogalakwena Ward 09 Ref No: CoGHSTA 38/26/4
Greater Giyani Ward 19 Ref No: CoGHSTA 38/26/5
Greater Letaba Ward 11 Ref No: CoGHSTA 38/26/6
Makhuduthamaga Ward 09 Ref No: CoGHSTA 38/26/7
Makhuduthamaga Ward 20 Ref No: CoGHSTA 38/26/8
Collins Chabane Ward 32 Ref No: CoGHSTA 38/26/9
Makhado Ward 03 Ref No: CoGHSTA 38/26/10
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public
Administration or related as recognized by SAQA/National Certificate in
Community Development. Minimum of 1 year relevant experience and valid
driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, Batho
Pele principles, the Public Service Act, computer literacy, Dynamics, culture
and language of the target community. Skills & Competencies: Computer
literacy; Negotiation skills; Presentation skills; Planning and organizing skills;
Time management; Communication skills (verbal & written); Interpersonal
skills; Computer skills.
DUTIES : Compile ward profiling; Identification of service delivery cases; Identification of
community concerns; Conduct household visits.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malahlela Nora Tel No: (015) 294 2224/ Ms. Mabina Reneilwe Tel No: (015)
294 2046
NOTE : Applicants for the positions must attach proof of residence. EE Target: Youth,
African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian Male &
Female, Persons with Disability (Blouberg 38/26/1)
EE Target: Youth, African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability Lepelle-Nkumpi 3//26/2, Mogalakwena
38/26/3 & 38/26/4, Greater Giyani 38/26/5, Greater Letaba 38/26/6,
Makhuduthamaga 38/26/7 & 38/26/8, Collins Chabane 38/26/9
EE Target: Youth, African Male & Female, Coloured Male & Female, White
Female, Indian Male & Female, Persons with Disability (Makhado 38/26/9)
POST 20/206 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: COGHSTA 39/26/1-4 (X4 POSTS)
Branch: Corporate Services, ISHS & Cooperative Governance
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Strategy Management Services (Polokwane) Ref No: CoGHSTA 39/26/1
Human Settlement Administration & Property Management (Polokwane) Ref
No: CoGHSTA 39/26/2
Human Settlements Programme & Project Management Region B
(Polokwane) Ref No: CoGHSTA 39/26/3
Municipal Infrastructure (Polokwane) Ref No: CoGHSTA 39/26/4
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Secretarial/Office
Management / Management Assistant as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 1
year experience in Office Management. Core and Process Competencies:
Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of the
164
legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Public Service Act,
Labour Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Skills & Competencies: Negotiation skills;
Computer literacy; Presentation skills; People management skills; Time
management, Communication skills (written & verbal); Planning and organizing
skills; Interpersonal skills. Communication skills (verbal & written); Ability to
work under pressure and be self-motivated; Attention to details.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial support; Manage the office; Manage the filing system;
Maintain the Chief Director’s diary; Management of telephone enquiries;
Manage and monitor the budget of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malahlela Nora Tel No: (015) 294 2224/ Ms. Mabina Reneilwe Tel No: (015)
294 2046
NOTE : EE Target: Youth, African Male & Female, Coloured Male & Female, White
Female, Indian Male & Female, Persons with Disability.
POST 20/207 : PERSONNEL OFFICER: CONDITIONS OF SERVICES AND
REMUNIRATION REF NO: COGHSTA 40/26
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R280 278 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Public
Administration/Human resource Management or related as recognized by
SAQA and valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Core
and Process Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant
prescripts, application of the legislative framework governing the public service
e.g., Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, PFMA, BCEA, EEA,
Labour Relations Act, Determination and Directive of Leave of Absence in the
Public Service, GEP Law, PILIR, PSCBC Resolutions and other HR
Legislations, PERSAL. Skills & Competencies: Communication and
Interpersonal skills, Organizational and Time management Skills, Problem-
Solving skills, Attention to Detail, Proficiency in HR Systems, Leadership and
Team Management Skills.
DUTIES : Administer the processing of leaves; Administer processing of pension
benefits; Administer the processing of compensation and employees benefits.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mabina Reneilwe Tel No: (015) 294 2046
NOTE : EE Target: Youth, African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability.
POST 20/208 : DISABILITY ASSISTANT: SPECIAL PROGRAMMES REF NO: COGHSTA
41/26
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R280 278 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Social Science or
related as recognized by SAQA and valid driver’s license. Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Public
Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, White Paper on the rights of Persons
with Disabilities, Reasonable Accommodation of persons with Disabilities and
United Nation convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities etc. Skills
& Competencies: Negotiation skills, Presentation skills, People management
skills, Conflict resolution, Decision making, Time management,
Communication, both formal, and informal.
DUTIES : Provide disability support services; Provide administration services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mabina Reneilwe Tel No: (015) 294 2046
NOTE : EE Target: Youth, African Female, Coloured Male & Female, White Female,
Indian Male & Female.
POST 20/209 : ADMIN CLERK: CLAIMS MANAGEMENT REF NO: COGHSTA 42/26 (X2
POSTS)
Branch: ISHS
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 /Matric / NQF level 4 as recognized by SAQA. Core and Process
Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts,
165
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g., Public
Service Act, Labour Relation Act, PFMA, etc. Skills & Competencies: Computer
literacy; Planning and organizing skills; Interpersonal skills. Communication
skills (verbal & written); Ability to work under pressure and be self-motivated;
Attention to details.
DUTIES : Registration of contractors and engineers; Arrangement of meetings between
department and stakeholders; Collate information and compile database for
the development and implementation of housing contracts; Maintain record
management and database of contractors and engineers; Processing of
claims.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mabina Reneilwe Tel No: (015) 294 2046
NOTE : EE Target: Youth, African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability.
POST 20/210 : CLEANER: FACILITIES REF NO: COGHSTA 43/26
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R144 204 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : ABET / AET qualification. Skills and Competencies: Communication Skills;
interpersonal skills; Planning skills and Initiative; Ability to recognize safety
hazards; Operation of the office equipment and problem solving; Ability to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Provision of cleaning services; Keep and maintain cleaning materials and
equipment; Request cleaning materials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mabina Reneilwe Tel No: (015) 294 2046
NOTE : EE Target: Youth, African Male, Coloured Male & Female, White Female, Indian
Male & Female, Persons with Disability.
166
ANNEXURE Z
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
The Office of the Premier is an equal opportunity employer. It is our intention to promote
respresentativity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions and that
the candidature of persons, whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativeness, will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your applications, quoting the relevant reference number to:
erecruitement.mpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 30 June 2026
NOTE : The Office of the Premier is looking for dynamic, innovative, experienced and
suitable candidates to fill the following posts, listed in the various Units below.
The minimum entry requirement for Senior Management Services (SMS) posts
is a Pre-entry Certificate that is obtainable through a course named Certificate
for entry into SMS submitted prior to appointment, and the full details can be
sourced by following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-entry-programme/. (SMS Pre-entry Certificate submitted prior
appointment). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
recommended candidates for Senior Management Level (SMS) and Middle
Management Level (MMS) posts shall be subjected to a competency
assessment. All appointments are subject to security clearance, security
vetting, employment reference checks, qualification verification and signing of
performance agreements. Applications should only be submitted online
through the link: erecruitment.mpg.gov.za on the new Z83 form and should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV. Only short-listed candidates will be
required to submit certified copies of qualifications. If no correspondence is
received within two months of the closing date, applicants must accept that
their applications have been unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/211 : DIRECTOR: PUBLIC SERVICE TRANSFORMATION REF NO: D-
PST/OTP/01
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive remuneration package. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement
with the Chief Director: Human Rights and Transformation.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced National Diploma in Public
Administration/ Public Management/ Operations Management (NQF Level 7).
A minimum of five (05) years of experience at Middle/ Senior management
level. Experience in Public Service Transformation will be an added advantage.
Essential skills will include the following: Knowledge and understanding of the
Operations Management Framework, Batho Pele Programmes and
Transformation Agenda of Government, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, White Paper on Transforming
Public Service Delivery and Change Management Strategy Framework.
DUTIES : Oversee the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Provincial Service
Delivery Improvement Plans. Oversee the coordination, monitoring and
evaluation of Batho Pele projects. Oversee the coordination and monitoring of
the implementation of Cascading Batho Pele programme to local municipalities
and District Municipalities. Oversee the coordination, monitoring and
evaluation of the Batho Pele Change engagement management Programme.
Oversee the coordination, development and monitoring of Service Standards
in Provincial Departments. Local Municipalities and District Municipalities.
Manage the provision of administrative support services. Managing human,
financial and physical resources, as well as information.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Deputy Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms. SS Monareng
Tel No: (013) 766 2004.
167
POST 20/212 : DIRECTOR: YOUTH DEVELOPMENT REF NO: D-YD/OTP/02
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive remuneration package. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement
with the Chief Director: Human Rights Transformation.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced National Diploma in Social
Science/Developmental studies (NQF level 7) or related fields. A minimum of
five (5) years’ experience at Middle/ Senior Management level. Experience in
the field of youth development programmes would be an added advantage.
Essential skills will include the following: Proven experience in Strategic
Capability and Leadership, People Management and Empowerment,
Programme and Project Management, Planning and Organising Skills,
Financial Management, Change Management, Computer literacy (Ms Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook), Communication and Presentation, Report
Writing, Analytical thinking and Decision making, Able to interpret and apply
policies. Knowledge in Human Resource Management, Public Service
prescripts and Youth Development Policy Frameworks.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor the implementation of policy and procedures pertaining
to youth development. Manage the development of sector youth policy and its
implementation in line with national policy. Oversee the implementation
provincial policies and plans. Develop an effective project plan for Youth within
government departments and ensure the implementation thereof. Oversee the
management and promotion of youth development projects and programs.
Monitor the mainstreaming of youth development programmes and projects in
the province. Coordinate the provision of necessary support to youth
development initiatives. Monitor effective project plan and implementation.
Develop an engagement model that ensures interaction and integration of
youth programs in the provincial government. Facilitate and coordinate youth
development imperatives. Conduct needs analysis for the youth of the
province. Facilitate the identification of economic opportunities for the youth.
Develop database for unemployed youth and their skills. Identify and
collaborate with public and private sectors in supporting youth with skills
development and economic opportunities. Develop intervention strategy to
address any challenges identified. Manage the provision of administrative
support services. Managing human, financial and physical resources, as well
as information.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Deputy Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms. SS Monareng
Tel No: (013) 766 2004.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/213 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROTOCOL SERVICES REF NO: DD-PS/OTP/03
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), an all-inclusive remuneration package. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement
with the Director: Integrated Security Management.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced National Diploma in International
Relations / Protocol / Public Management (NQF 7) or related fields. A minimum
of three (3) years’ experience at a Junior Management level with experience in
an environment rendering protocol matters and a valid driver’s license.
Essential skills will include the following: Protocol Services. Strategic Capability
and Leadership. Financial Management. Change Management. Report Writing
and Presentation. Knowledge Management. People Management and
Empowerment. Programme and Project Management. Service Delivery
Innovations. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Problem Solving and
Analysis. Communications.
DUTIES : Developing and implementing the Provincial protocol policy. Rendering
protocol support to the Premier and the Executive Council. Rendering
ceremonial services and state visits matters. Co-ordinating Provincial protocol
services. Compile and present reports on protocol matters. Managing human,
financial and physical resources, as well as information. Manage the provision
of administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Deputy Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms. SS Monareng
Tel No: (013) 766 2004.
168
POST 20/214 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION - MPUMALANGA
PROVINCIAL AIDS COUNCIL REF NO: D-PST/OTP/04
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), an all-inclusive remuneration package. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement
with the Director: Mpumalanga Provincial AIDS Council.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced National Diploma in Science/
Behavioural Science / Public Health or related fields (NQF Level 7). A minimum
of three (3) at Junior Management Level. Experience in Monitoring and
Evaluation would be an added advantage. Essential skills will include the
following: Knowledge of HIV, AIDS, TB and STI’s policy frameworks, Monitoring
and Evaluation systems, Research Methodologies, Public Service prescripts
and Knowledge Management. Communication, Motivation, Report Writing,
Presentation, Conflict Management, Coordination and Negotiation, Logical and
Analytical Thinking, Creativity, Good leadership as well Problem Solving and
listening skills.
DUTIES : Manage the development and support the implementation of the Provincial
Implementation Plan for HIV, TB & STIs (2023-2028). Provide support on
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting for the Provincial Implementation Plan
for HIV, TB & STIs (2023-2028). Support the Rollout and Promote use for the
Situation Room. Monitor progress of Provincial Implementation Plan for HIV,
TB & STIs (2023 -2028) to fulfil provincial reporting requirements. Manage the
provision of administrative support service.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Deputy Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms. SS Monareng
Tel No: (013) 766 2004.
POST 20/215 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PUBLIC SERVICE TRANSFORMATION REF NO: DD-
PST/OTP/05
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive remuneration package. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement
with the Director: Public Service Transformation.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced National Diploma in Public
Administration/ Public Management/ Operations Management/ Social Science
(NQF Level 7). A minimum of three (3) years of experience at Junior
Management Level. Experience in Public Service Transformation field will be
an added advantage. Essential skills will include the following: Knowledge and
understanding of the Operations Management Framework, of Batho Pele
Programmes and Transformation Agenda of Government, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, White Paper on
Transforming Public Service Delivery and Change Management Strategy
Framework. Analytical, Communication, Interpersonal Relations, Team work,
Initiative, Openness and Transparent, Serve the people” upholding values and
principles, Live by a High Standard of Professional Ethics, Integrity –
Credibility, Honesty – Incorruptible, Dedication – Hard working.
DUTIES : Coordinate and monitor the implementation of Cascading Batho Pele to local
Government programme and the Provincial Departments (Transformation
Imperatives/Batho Pele Programmes). Coordinate, Monitor and evaluate the
Batho Pele Change Management Engagement Programme (Capacitation on
request by Municipalities, Government Depts. and SOEs). Coordinate, Monitor
and evaluate Batho Pele projects. Coordinate, Monitor and Evaluate the
provincial Service delivery improvement Plans. Manage the provision of
administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Deputy Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms. SS Monareng
Tel No: (013) 766 2004.
POST 20/216 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EXECUTIVE COUNCIL SECRETARIAT REF NO: DD-
EXCO/OTP/06
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive remuneration package. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement
with the Director: Executive Council Secretariat.
CENTRE : Mbombela
169
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced National Diploma in Public
Management/Administration (NQF Level 7). A minimum of three (03) years’
experience at Junior Management Level. Essential skills will include the
following: Knowledge and understanding of Public Service prescripts. Human
Resource Management. Computer skills. Leadership. Planning and
Organising. Report Writing and Minute Taking. Decision-making. Analytical
thinking and problem solving. Communication and Presentation. Project
Management.
DUTIES : Coordinate Provincial Management Committee (PMC) meetings. Render
secretarial services to Provincial Management Committee. Track outstanding
EXCO resolutions. Ensure the safekeeping of all EXCO and cluster
documentation. Coordinate and render secretariat services to PMC, EXCO
Lekgotla and Premier Coordination Forum. Manage the provision of
administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Deputy Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms. SS Monareng
Tel No: (013) 766 2004.
POST 20/217 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT - OFFICE OF THE PREMIER REF
NO: DD-IA/OTP/12
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive remuneration package. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement
with the Director: Internal Audit.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced National Diploma in Internal
Audit, Accounting, Finance (NQF Level 7). A minimum of three (3) years’
experience at Junior Management Level within the Internal Audit environment.
Essential skills will include the following: Knowledge and understanding of
Departmental policies / circulars / instructions / frameworks. National
guidelines / Acts / Regulations / norms and standards. Internal Audit
methodology. International Standard for the professional practice of Internal
Auditors. Internal Audit Plan. Internal Audit Charter. Planning and Organising
Skills. Computer literacy (Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Audit
Systems). Applied strategic thinking, Budgeting and Financial Management,
Communication and Information Management, Continuous improvement,
Customer Focus and Responsiveness, Diversity management, Networking
and Building Bonds, Planning and Organising. Problem Solving and Decision-
making, Project Management and Team Leadership.
DUTIES : Manage the internal audit services. Audit planning and execution. Quality
assurance and reporting. Compliance and continuous improvement (Keep up
to date with new developments in the internal audit environment). Audit
committee and stakeholder support. Manage the provision of administrative
support services.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Deputy Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms. SS Monareng
Tel No: (013) 766 2004.
POST 20/218 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT - DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY
SAFETY, SECURITY AND LIAISON REF NO: DD-IA/DCSSL/13
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive remuneration package. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement
with the Director: Internal Audit.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/ Advanced National Diploma in Internal
Audit, Accounting, Finance (NQF Level 7). A minimum of three (3) years’
experience at Junior Management Level within the Internal Audit environment.
Essential skills will include the following: Knowledge and understanding of
Departmental policies / circulars / instructions / frameworks. National
guidelines / Acts / Regulations / norms and standards. Internal Audit
methodology. International Standard for the professional practice of Internal
Auditors. Internal Audit Plan. Internal Audit Charter. Planning and Organising
Skills. Computer literacy (Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Audit
Systems). Applied strategic thinking, Budgeting and Financial Management,
Communication and Information Management, Continuous Improvement,
Customer Focus and Responsiveness, Diversity Management, Networking
and Building Bonds, Planning and Organising. Problem Solving and Decision-
making, Project Management and Team Leadership.
170
DUTIES : Manage the internal audit services. Audit planning and execution. Quality
assurance and reporting. Compliance and continuous improvement (Keep up
to date with new developments in the internal audit environment). Audit
committee and stakeholder support. Manage the provision of administrative
support services.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Deputy Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms. SS Monareng
Tel No: (013) 766 2004.
POST 20/219 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF NO: DD-
ODG/OTP/18 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive remuneration package. The
successful candidate will be required to enter into a Performance Agreement
with the Director: Office of the DG.
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced National Diploma or equivalent
qualification in Public Management or Administration (NQF level 7), with a
minimum of three (3) years managerial experience a Junior Management
Level. Experience in effective communication (written and verbal). Good
understanding of how the machinery of government works, including linkages
between national, provincial and local spheres of government. Willingness to
work beyond normal hours. Ability to work according to tight schedules.
Essential skills will include the following: Office Management. Strategic
Capability and Leadership. Financial Management. Change Management.
Knowledge Management. People Management and Empowerment.
Programme and Project Management. Service Delivery Innovations. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Problem Solving and Analysis.
Communications.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services within the Office of the DG. Keep track
of all pending matters and outstanding EXCO Resolutions and ensure
finalization thereof. Keep track of all pending matters regarding PMC,
MANCOM and EMC Resolutions and ensure finalization thereof. Provide
administrative support to all Programmes and Management. Render
administrative and secretariat support services. Manage resources within the
sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Deputy Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms. SS Monareng
Tel No: (013) 766 2004.
POST 20/220 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ELDERLY PERSONS REF NO: AD-EP/OTP/8
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Social Work/ Social Sciences (NQF level
6). A minimum of three (3) years of experience in special programme
environment. Essential skills will include the following: Knowledge of the
Constitutional of the Republic South Africa, 1996, Madrid International Plan of
Action on Ageing (MIPAA), 2002, National Strategy on Ageing for South Africa
2025-2030, WHO Ageing: A policy framework 2002, the South African Older
Persons Charter, Older Persons Regulations, 1 April 2010, Older Persons
Amendment Bill, 2022, Older Persons Act, No 3 of 2006 and Social Assistance
Act, No 45 of 1994. Good Communication (verbal & written), Critical thinking,
leadership, Problem Solving, Decision Making, Planning and Organizing Skills,
Report Writing, Presentation, Time Management, Public Management, Public
Speaking and Conflict Management Skills.
DUTIES : Collate and consolidate the mainstreaming report on Older Persons.
Coordinate Provincial machinery for Older Person. Coordinate the Annual
General Meeting for Older Persons. Capacitate stakeholders on the rights of
Older Persons. Render administrative services in the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms NA
Mathebula: (A) Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D Tel No: (013) 766 2426.
POST 20/221 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MARKETING REF NO: AD-M/OTP/10
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Marketing Management /Communications/
Strategic Communication/ Public Relations (NQF Level 6). A minimum of three
171
(03) experience in marketing and communications environment. Essential
skills will include the following: Knowledge and understanding of Public Service
Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Finance Management Act and
Knowledge of Marketing and branding. Analytical Thinking and Problem
Solving, Communication and Presentation, Decision- making, Report Writing
and Minute Taking, Planning and Organising, Negotiation and Computer
Literacy.
DUTIES : Coordinate and conduct exhibitions for Mpumalanga Provincial Government.
Conduct exhibition for the Office of the Premier. Facilitate media platform for
government communication. Develop provincial calendar events. Render
communication support to provincial government events. Coordinate the
branding of departmental events. Render administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms NA
Mathebula: (A) Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D Tel No: (013) (013) 766
2426.
POST 20/222 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EXPENDITURE REF NO: AD-EXP/OTP/07
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Commerce (NQF level 6). Bachelor of
Commerce Degree in Accounting is an added advantage. A minimum of three
(3) years relevant experience in Expenditure or Financial Management field as
a State Accountant. Essential skills will include the following knowledge and
understanding of government expenditure procedures, BAS, LOGIS, PFMA
and Treasury Regulations. Good Interpersonal and Communications skills.
Ability to work independently and as part of a team. Expenditure Administration
and Management will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Facilitate Manage and Administer the processing of payments. Safeguarding
of payment vouchers and oversee (manage) adherence to internal controls
processes and procedures. Liaise with suppliers of goods and services.
Manage staff performance. Establish and maintain the expenditure risk factors.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms NA
Mathebula: (A) Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D Tel No: (013) 766 2426.
POST 20/223 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING
REF NO: AD-EP/OTP/09
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Public Administration/ Public Management/
Public Policy Monitoring and Evaluation/ Development Studies (NQF Level 6).
A minimum of three (03) years’ experience in Strategic Planning. Essential
skills will include the following: Knowledge and Understanding of DPME
Revised Framework, Project Management, Legislative Mandates, Treasury
Regulation and Public Service Act. Competent skills in Computer Literacy,
People Management, Planning and Organising, Report Writing and Minute
Taking, Decision- making, Analytical Thinking and Problem Solving, and
Communication and Presentation.
DUTIES : Coordinate the compilation of Annual Performance Plans (APP) and Annual
Operational Plan (AOP) for the Department. Align Departmental Programmes
with the Strategic Plan of the Department. Consolidate Annual Report Inputs.
Provide inputs for the Planning Policy Review. Verify and validate
Programme/Project Performance Information. Render administrative support
services.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms NA
Mathebula: (A) Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D Tel No: (013) 766 2426.
POST 20/224 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT - OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
REF NO: AD-IA/OTP/14 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Internal Audit, Accounting, Finance (NQF
Level 6). A minimum of three (3) years’ experience within the Internal Audit
environment. Essential skills will include the following: Knowledge and
172
understanding of Departmental policies/circulars/instructions/frameworks.
National guidelines/Acts/Regulations/norms and standards. Internal Audit
methodology. International Standard for the professional practice of Internal
Auditors. Internal Audit Plan. Internal Audit Charter. Planning and Organising
Skills. Computer literacy (Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Audit
Systems). Communication, Conflict management, Report Writing, Logical and
Analytical Thinking, Able to interpret and apply policies, Peoples Management
skills, Interpersonal Skills, Decision-making, Problem-Solving skills and
Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Audit planning and execution. Evaluate the department’s controls/objectives to
determine their effectiveness and efficiency through internal audits.
Compliance and Continuous Improvement (Keep up to date with new
developments in the internal audit environment). Stakeholder engagement.
Render administrative services in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms NA
Mathebula: (A) Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D Tel No: (013) 766 2426.
POST 20/225 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT - DEPARTMENT OF
COMMUNITY SAFETY, SECURITY AND LIAISON REF NO: AD-
IA/DCSSL/15
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Internal Audit, Accounting, Finance (NQF
Level 6). A minimum of three (3) years’ experience within the Internal Audit
environment. Essential skills will include the following: Knowledge and
understanding of Departmental policies/circulars/instructions/frameworks.
National guidelines/Acts/Regulations/norms and standards. Internal Audit
methodology. International Standard for the professional practice of Internal
Auditors. Internal Audit Plan. Internal Audit Charter. Planning and Organising
Skills. Computer literacy (Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Audit
Systems). Communication, Conflict Management, Report Writing, Logical and
Analytical Thinking, Able to interpret and apply policies, Peoples Management
skills, Interpersonal Skills, Decision-making, Problem solving skills and
Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Audit planning and execution. Evaluate the department’s controls/objectives to
determine their effectiveness and efficiency through internal audits.
Compliance and Continuous Improvement (Keep up to date with new
developments in the internal audit environment). Stakeholder engagement.
Render administrative services in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms NA
Mathebula: (A) Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D Tel No: (013) 766 2426.
POST 20/226 : INTERNAL AUDITOR: INTERNAL AUDIT- OFFICE OF THE PREMIER REF
NO: IA-IA/OTP/11 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Internal Audit/Accounting/Commence or
Finance (NQF Level 6). A minimum of three (03) years’ experience in internal
and external Audit standards. CIA/CA (SA) designation or pursuing designation
will be an added advantage. Essential skills will include the following:
Knowledge of International standards for the Professional Practice of Internal
Audit. Internal Audit Approaches. Departmental policies / circulars / instructions
/ frameworks. National guidelines / Acts / Regulations / norms and standards.
Internal Audit methodology. Internal Audit. Internal Audit Charter. Computer
literacy (Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Audit Systems).
DUTIES : Perform planning of internal audit assignments. Perform execution of internal
audit assignments. Report audit results. Perform all administrative related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms NA
Mathebula: (A) Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D Tel No: (013) 766 2426.
POST 20/227 : INTERNAL AUDITOR: INTERNAL AUDIT - DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY
SAFETY, SECURITY AND LIAISON REF NO: IA-IA/DCSSL/16
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
173
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Internal Audit/Accounting/Commence or
finance (NQF Level 6). A minimum of three (03) years’ experience in internal
and external Audit standards. CIA/CA (SA) designation or pursuing designation
will be an added advantage. Essential skills will include the following:
Knowledge and understanding of international standards for the Professional
Practice of Internal Audit. Internal Audit Approaches. Departmental policies /
circulars / instructions / frameworks. National guidelines / Acts / Regulations /
norms and standards. Internal Audit methodology. Internal Audit. Internal Audit
Charter. Computer literacy (Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Audit
Systems).
DUTIES : Perform planning of internal audit assignments. Perform execution of internal
audit assignments. Report audit results. Perform all administrative related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms NA
Mathebula: (A) Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D Tel No: (013) 766 2426.
POST 20/228 : INTERNAL AUDITOR: INTERNAL AUDIT - DEPARTMENT OF CULTURE,
SPORT AND RECREATION REF NO: IA-IA/DCSR/17
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Internal Audit/Accounting/Commence or
finance (NQF Level 6). A minimum of three (03) years’ experience in internal
and external Audit standards. CIA/CA (SA) designation or pursuing designation
will be an added advantage. Essential skills will include the following:
Knowledge and understanding of international standards for the Professional
Practice of Internal Audit. Internal Audit Approaches. Departmental
policies/circulars/instructions/frameworks. National
guidelines/Acts/Regulations/norms and standards. Internal Audit methodology.
Internal Audit. Internal Audit Charter. Computer literacy (Ms Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook and Audit Systems).
DUTIES : Perform planning of internal audit assignments. Perform execution of internal
audit assignments. Report audit results. Perform all administrative related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to the Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms NA
Mathebula: (A) Assistant Director: Internal HRM & D Tel No: (013) 766 2426.
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Social Development is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts,
the objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Youth, Woman and Persons with Disabilities
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be posted to: The Deputy Director General; Department of
Social Development, Private Bag X11213, Nelspruit, 1200, OR hand delivered
to: Department of Social Development offices: Mbombela Square Building No
3, 4th floor HRM Offices (next to Mbombela High Court) / Alternatively
applications may be emailed to: vacancies@dsdmpu.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026
NOTE : Applications should be submitted on the signed new Z83 application form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or by visiting
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate
administration burden on HR section as well as considering the cost for
applicants. The Department of Social Development will request certified copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents from shortlisted candidates only
which may be submitted to HR section of the Department on or before the day
of the interview following communication from the relevant HR section of the
Department. A complete set of application documents should be submitted
separately for every post that you wish to apply for more than one post. Please
ensure that you clearly state the full post description and the relevant Post
Reference Number on your application. Applicants must ensure that they fully
complete and sign form Z83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
174
internal processes. The Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short-listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Social
Development within 90 days after the closing date of the advertisement,
applicants must assume that their application was not successful. Please quote
the correct references when applying and where possible the station / centre
where the post is. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The suitable
candidate/s for MMS and SMS posts will need to undergo a Competency
Assessment prior to being recommended for appointment by the Executive
Authority. Candidate recommended for SMS positions must be in possession
of Certificate of Entry into SMS within the Public Service obtained from the
NSG before appointed. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme is 120
national hours [15 days]. Full details may be sourced by following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme they are.
Security clearance will be conducted before appointment is made in all
positions. Those who have previously applied for any re-advertised posts are
encouraged to re-apply. The Department reserves the right to amend / review
/ withdraw the advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the
department will be well served. (Youth, Whites, Indians and Persons with
Disabilities are also encouraged to apply and indicate such in their
applications). Social Service Profession posts will require shortlisted
candidates to provide a recent registration certificate, not proof of payment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/229 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SOCIAL WELFARE SERVICES REF NO:
DSD/JUNE/PRO/SWS/26/01
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, [SMS all-inclusive remuneration package]
CENTRE : Provincial Office [Mbombela Square]
REQUIREMENTS : National senior certificate/Grade 12 (NQF level 4). Degree in Social Work (NQF
level 7) as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years’ credible experience at
Senior Managerial level; a post graduate qualification in Social Sciences will
be an added advantage. Proven strategic leadership and business partnering;
research, policy management, development, monitoring and evaluation;
problem solving and decision making; analytical and advanced programme /
resource management skills. Knowledge of Social Development Constitutional
mandate and relevant legislation and policies. Knowledge of Statutory Social
Work matters; Public Finance Management Act, Public Service Act and
Regulations. Proven track record of leading change management initiatives
and applying innovative thinking. Computer literacy. Verbal and written
communication skills. A Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Overall management of the Chief Directorate (including overseeing the
development and implementation of business plans outlining critical strategic
service delivery improvement interventions to be effected in accordance with
the relevant legislation, department’s strategic plan and service delivery
needs). Manage efficient and effective utilization of human and financial
resources in the chief directorate. Manage the performance of the chief
directorate and performance agreements of managers in immediate span of
control. Facilitate the optimal development and functioning of individuals,
families, groups and communities. Promote the development, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation and improvement of need based sustainable social
welfare programmes and services aimed at empowering children, families,
youth, women, elderly and persons with disabilities. Promote the development,
implementation, monitoring, evaluation, improvement of programmes and
services aimed at promoting crime prevention through restorative services.
Oversee the collation and analysis of data on intervention, and reconfiguration
for report purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Thembi Mashego Tel No: [013] 766 3525/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No:
[013] 766 3232
175
POST 20/230 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
DSD/JUNE/PRO/BSS/26/02
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, [SMS all-inclusive remuneration package]
CENTRE : Provincial Office [Mbombela Square]
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate (NQF level 4). Degree or Advanced Diploma (NQF
level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Public Management/Public
Administration/Business Management or related field. A postgraduate
qualification (NQF level 8) or higher) will be an added advantage. Extensive
managerial experience of which 5 years must be at Senior Managerial level.
Knowledge of Public Service Act, Regulations. PFMA and Treasury
Regulations. Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Employment Equity Act, Public sector Risk management Framework.
Corporate Governance and internal control systems. A valid driver’s licence.
Competencies: Planning and organizing skills. Analytical programme and
project management skills. Research monitoring and evaluation skills.
Financial Management skills. People management and empowerment.
Change management. Service delivery innovation. Problem solving and
analysis. Strategic capability and Leadership. Communication and stakeholder
management.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and management of Business support services.
Oversee Human resource management and Development. Manage Labour
relations, Employee Health and Wellness and Organisational development.
Provide leadership on Supply chain management, Asset management and
Facilities management Oversee ICT, Records management and Knowledge
management services. Coordinate strategic planning, risk management and
performance management systems. Ensure sound financial management and
compliance with PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Manage departmental
governance structures and internal controls. Support the Head of Department
in achieving departmental objectives. Lead stakeholder engagement and
intergovernmental relations relevant to business support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Thembi Mashego Tel No: [013] 766 3525/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No:
[013] 766 3232
POST 20/231 : DIRECTOR: YOUTH DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DSD/JUNE/PRO/YOU/26/03
Re-advertisement
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, [SMS all-inclusive remuneration package]
CENTRE : Provincial Office [Mbombela Square]
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate (NQF level 4). Degree in Development
Studies/Youth in Development/Community Development Studies (NQF level 7)
as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior
managerial level. A valid drivers’ license is essential. Competencies: Extensive
knowledge of policies and prescripts that govern Public Financial management
and public service. Excellent interpersonal, communication and report writing
skills. Knowledge and understanding of relevant Youth and Community
Development legislation and the current developments in the sector including
National Youth Service Programmes, War on Poverty Campaigns, Expanded
Public Works Programme and Youth Development Agency etc. Good
facilitation, presentation and managerial skills. Strategic Capability and
Leadership.
DUTIES : Design and implement integrated special programmes as well as social
economic empowerment programmes for the youth. Provide strategic direction
on the development of policy and guidelines for the implementation of Youth
Development. Monitor and evaluate youth development programmes to ensure
effective implementation. Establish and maintain sound partnership and
networks with stakeholders in relation to youth development activities. Manage
the financial, physical and human resource of the directorate
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Charlene Mashego Tel No: [013] 766 3525/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No:
[013] 766 3232
POST 20/232 : DIRECTOR: POPULATION POLICY PROMOTION REF NO:
DSD/JUNE/PRO/POP/26/04
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, [SMS all-inclusive remuneration package]
CENTRE : Provincial Office [Mbombela Square]
176
REQUIREMENTS : National senior certificate/Grade 12 (NQF level 4). Degree in Economics/
Statistics/Population or Demography (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Extensive
knowledge of population and development trends. A clear understanding of
Public Service legislations such as the Public Finance Management Act, Public
Service Act and Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Skills in project
management, strategic planning, and problem-solving are also highly valued.
Good facilitation, presentation, communication and managerial skills.
Proficiency in using computer software, including MS Office Suite, is essential.
A valid drivers’ license is essential.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate Population Capacity Development and Advocacy
Programmes. Manage and facilitate Population Research and Demographic
Analysis. Manage and facilitate the Monitoring and Evaluation of the
implementation of the Population Policy for South Africa. Coordinate and
monitor performance information, anti-corruption and risks in the directorate.
Manage the physical, financial and human resources of the Directorate.
Manage performance information of the Directorate. Provide high-level liaison
with National Department, other government departments, and stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Thembi Mashego Tel No: [013] 766 3525/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No:
[013] 766 3232
POST 20/233 : DIRECTOR: GERT SIBANDE DISTRICT REF NO:
DSD/JUNE/GER/ERM/26/05
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, [SMS all-inclusive remuneration package]
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District Office [RMELO]
REQUIREMENTS : National senior certificate/Grade 12 (NQF level 4) plus Degree in Public
Administration and or Social Sciences (NQF 7) as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at middle/senior managerial level. Ability to
compile complex reports. A valid driver’s license. Competence: In depth
understanding and thorough knowledge of Public Service legislation such as
PSA, PSR, PFMA, Treasury Regulations and other related policy framework.
Good presentation and leadership abilities with strong people skills.
Managerial and organisational experience.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate the implementation of integrated developmental Social
Services at District level. Manage and facilitate the provision of professional
support services at the district and institutions. Facilitate and coordinate the
provision of Social Welfare Services. Facilitate and coordinate the
implementation of Community development Programmes. Manage and
facilitate the provision of Financial Administration services. Manage and
facilitate the provision of Corporate Services. Manage and coordinate the
implementation of services at sub-district level.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Thembi Mashego Tel No: [013] 766 3525/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No:
[013] 766 3232
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/234 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: OSD GRADE 1 REF NO:
DSD/JUNE/EHL/THA/26/06
SALARY : R1 009 512 per annum, [MMS all-inclusive remuneration package]
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District: Thaba Chweu Sub-District Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior certificate (NQF level 4) plus an appropriate Degree in Social
Work (NQF level7) as recognized by SAQA. Registration with South African
Council for Social Services Professions as Social Worker. A minimum of 10
years’ appropriate experience in social work after registration as Social Worker
with the SACSSP of which 5 years must be in social work policy development.
Ability to compile complex reports. A valid driver’s license. Competencies:
Planning and organizing skills. Analytical and project management skills.
Research monitoring and evaluation skills. Financial Management skills.
Communication (written and verbal) skills. Presentation skills. Leadership and
Negotiating skills. Professional and Counselling skills.
DUTIES : Manage provision of social welfare services to children and youth. Manage
provision of health care services to children and youth. Manage provision of
institutional care and development programmes. Manage provision of
administrative and support services. Manage efficient and effective utilization
177
of Human and Financial resources. Ensure implementation of Acts, Policies
and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pretty Sibinde Tel No: [013] 766 3320/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No: [013]
766 3232
POST 20/235 : MANAGER: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT POLICY: OSD GRADE 1 REF
NO: DSD/JUNE/PRO/COM/26/07
SALARY : R1 009 512 per annum, [MMS all-inclusive remuneration package]
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Mbombela Square)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate three-year tertiary qualification in Community Development
Studies (NQF level 7). A minimum of 10 years’ recognisable experience in
Community Development after obtaining the required qualification, of which 5
years must be appropriate experience in Community policy development.
DUTIES : Must be able to manage the identification, facilitation and implementation of
integrated development interventions/ programmes in partnership with the
community and other relevant stakeholders through the efficient, effective and
economical utilisation of resources by the unit/ sub directorate. Must be able to
interpret, advise, and develop proposals on legislation and policies and
determine whether the legislation and policies are still relevant and comply with
current requirements. Must be able to undertake/ facilitate complex community
development research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pretty Sibinde Tel No: [013] 766 3320/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No: [013]
766 3232
POST 20/236 : ASSISTANT MANAGER COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT: OSD GRADE 1 (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R626 454 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Thembisile Hani Sub-District Office Ref No: DSD/JUNE/NKA/THE/26/08
Gert Sibande: Dipaleseng Sub-District Office Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/GER/DIP/26/09
Ehlanzeni District: Nkomazi Sub-District Office Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/EHL/NKO/26/10
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year tertiary qualification. A minimum of 8 years’
recognizable experience in Community Development after obtaining the
required qualification. Knowledge and understanding of individual and group
behaviour, its interrelations within community structures, dynamic of the
community and current legislation to enable interventions. Good written and
verbal communication skills. The ability and competence to manage
community development structures and projects. A valid driver’s license is an
essential requirement. Knowledge and understanding of human behaviour and
social systems. Knowledge and understanding of the inter-relations within
community structures, dynamics of the community and current legislation to
enable interventions.
DUTIES : Coordinate the identification, facilitation, and implementation of integrated
development interventions in partnership with other relevant stakeholders
through the efficient, effective and economical utilization of resources by the
service delivery areas. Coordinate and manage community development
service delivery areas to ensure that an efficient and effective community
development service is delivered through the proper utilization of human,
financial and physical resources. Keep up to date with new developments in
the community development and management fields to enhance service
delivery. Plan and ensure that research on community development is
undertaken. Undertake/ facilitate complex community development research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pretty Sibinde Tel No: [013] 766 3320/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No: [013]
766 3232
POST 20/237 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR: OSD GRADE 1 [X7 POSTS]
SALARY : R496 668 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District: Msukaligwa Sub-District Office Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/GER/ERM/26/11
Gert Sibande District: Mkhondo (Commondale) Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/GER/COM/26/12
Gert Sibande District: Msukaligwa (Lothair] Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/GER/LOT/26/13
178
Gert Sibande District: Govan Mbeki (Embalenhle] Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/GER/EMB/26/14
Nkangala District Dr. JS. Moroka (Mkobola) Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/NKA/MKO/26/15
Nkangala District (Emalahleni Office) Ref No: DSD/JUNE/NKA/EMA/26/16
Ehlanzeni District: Umjindi Sub-District Office Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/EHL/UMJ/26/17
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work (NQF level 7) as recognized
by SAQA. Registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions as Social Worker. A minimum of 7 years’ appropriate experience
in Social Work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP and a valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Ensure that social work services regarding care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
through the relevant programmes are rendered. Attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from social instability in any form. Supervise
employees engaged in these functions. Supervise and advise social workers,
social auxiliary workers and volunteers to ensure an effective social work
service. Keep up to date with new developments in the social work field.
Supervise all administrative functions required in the unit and undertake the
higher-level administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pretty Sibinde Tel No: [013] 766 3320/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No: [013]
766 3232
POST 20/238 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SUPERVISOR: OSD GRADE 1 [X3 POSTS]
SALARY : R471 330 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni: Bushbuckridge Sub District Office Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/EHL/BBR/26/18
Gert Sibande: Chief Albert Luthuli (Elukwatini) Ref No:
DSD/JUN/GER/ELU/26/19
Gert Sibande: Mkhondo Sub-District Office Ref No:
DSD/JUN/GER/MKH/26/20
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate three-year qualification. A minimum of 7 years’ recognisable
experience in Community Development after obtaining the required
qualification. Knowledge and understanding of human behaviour, social
systems and legislation to assist with interventions at the points where people
interact with their environment in order to promote self-empowerment. Must
have the ability and competence to co-ordinate community development
structures and ability to manage projects. Community development knowledge,
skills, attributes and values to engage in the social development of
communities. Good Management and mentoring skills. Good verbal and
written communication skills. Knowledge and understanding of the PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, etc. and Financial Management. Valid driver’s license.
Computer literacy. Prepared to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Supervise the identification, facilitation and implementation of integrated
community development interventions in partnership with the community and
other relevant stakeholders and assist employees engaged in this function by
resolving problems. Supervise and support community development
practitioners to ensure that there is communication and co-ordination with all
relevant role players both internal and external and stakeholders (e.g. in
departments/provinces, NGOs, local community structures and faith-based
organizations) to facilitate collaboration and establish partnerships to ensure
the sustainability of development actions within the community. Supervise and
guide community development practitioners to enhance their performance on
community development and offer administrative support on community
development and related activities. Keep up to date with new developments in
the community development field to enhance service delivery. Supervise and
advise Community Development Practitioners to ensure an efficient and
effective service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pretty Sibinde Tel No: [013] 766 3320/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No: [013]
766 3232
POST 20/239 : SOCIAL WORKER: OSD GRADE 1 [X10 POSTS]
SALARY : R338 208 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Gert Sibande: George Hofmeyer CYCC Ref No: DSD/JUNE/GER/GEO/26/21
179
Gert Sibande: Govan Mbeki (Leandra) Ref No: DSD/JUNE/GER/LEA/26/22
Gert Sibande: Govan Mbeki (Embalenhle) Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/GER/EMB/26/23
Gert Sibande: Govan Mbeki (Bethal Office) Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/GER/BET/26/24
Nkangala District: Emalahleni (Ogies/Kriel Office) Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/NKA/OGI/26/25
Nkangala District: Victor Khanye (Delmas) Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/NKA/DEL/26/26
Nkangala District: Emakhazeni (Belfast/Dulls) Ref No:
DSD/APR/NKA/BEL/26/27
Nkangala District: Dr Js Moroka (Mbibane) Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/NKA/MBI/26/28
Nkangala District: Dr JS. Moroka (Marapyane) Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/NKA/MAR/26/29
Ehlanzeni District: Umjindi Sub-District Ref No: DSD/JUNE/EHL/UMJ/26/30
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree in Social Work (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA.
Registration with the SACSSP as a Social Worker. Basic computer literacy and
a valid driver’s license will be added advantage.
DUTIES : Must be able to challenge structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression,
discrimination and exclusion. Must have knowledge and understanding of
human behaviour and social systems. Must be able to intervene at the points
where people interact with their environment in order to promote social well-
being. Must be able to assist and empower individuals, families, groups,
organisations, and communities to enhance their social functioning and their
problem-solving capabilities. Must be able to promote, restore, maintain and
enhance the functioning of individuals, families, groups and communities by
enabling them to accomplish tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use
resources effectively. Must understand and be able to provide social work
services towards protecting people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to
protect themselves. Must demonstrate an understanding of social work
policies, legislation and related legal and ethical social work practices.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pretty Sibinde Tel No: [013] 766 3320/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No: [013]
766 3232
POST 20/240 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE: (PN-A2) [GENERAL NURSING] REF NO:
DSD/JUNE/NKA/TRE/26/31
SALARY : R337 359 per annum, (plus service benefits & uniform allowance)
CENTRE : Nkangala Treatment Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
(Experience is also considered within this post level for a better salary notch)
Please attach your Certificate of Service if any.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the junior’s personnel and implementation
of nursing plan (clinical practice/quality care). Implement standards, practices,
criteria and indication for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing
and health care in accordance with laws and regulation relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Provide comprehensive nursing treatment and care to patients in a
cost effective, efficient and equitable manner. Act as shift leader in Unit (where
necessary).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pretty Sibinde Tel No: [013] 766 3320/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No: [013]
766 3232
POST 20/241 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER: OSD GRADE 1 (X8
POSTS)
SALARY : R289 296 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Nkangala District: DR.JS Moroka (Marapyane) Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/NKA/MAR/26/32
Nkangala: Emakhazeni (Bethal) Ref No: DSD/JUNE/NKA/BET/26/33
Ehlanzeni District: Umjindi Sub-District Ref No: DSD/JUNE/EHL/UMJ/26/34
(X2 Posts)
Gert Sibande: Msukaligwa(Sheepmore) Ref No: DSD/JUNE/GER/SHEE/26/35
Gert Sibande: Dipaleseng (Grootvlei) Ref No: DSD/JUNE/GER/DIP/26/36
180
Gert Sibande: Pixley Ka Seme (Daggakraal) Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/GER/DAGG/26/37
Gert Sibande: Mkhondo Sub-District Office Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/GER/MKH/26/38
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior certificate/Grade 12 (NQF level4). An appropriate three-year
tertiary qualification. Knowledge and understanding of human behaviour, social
system and legislation to assist with interventions as the points where people
interact with the environment. Communication, facilitation and research skills.
Must have knowledge of human behaviour and social systems. Knowledge of
legislation to assist with interventions at the points where people interact with
their environments in order to promote self-empowerment.
DUTIES : Provide basic counselling services and empower communities. Identify and
facilitate the implementation of integrated development interventions in
partnership with the community other relevant stakeholders. Liaise and interact
with various community development structures to facilitate collaboration and
to establish partnership to ensure sustainability of development action within
the community. s. (E.g. in Department, Provinces, NGO’S). Ability to work
extended hour and under pressure. Support communities and perform
administrative support on community development and related activities. Keep
up to date with new developments within the community development field to
enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pretty Sibinde Tel No: [013] 766 3320/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No: [013]
766 3232
POST 20/242 : SECRETARY [X3 POSTS]
SALARY : R237 453 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Mbombela Square):
Ref No: DSD/JUNE/SEC/CFO/26/39
Ref No: DSD/JUNE/SEC/INT/26/40
Ref No: DSD/JUNE/SEC/CHI/26/41
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Grade 12 certificate (NQF level 4). National Diploma
in Office Management/Administration/Secretariat (NQF level 6) as recognised
by SAQA. Skills needed: Computer literacy. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Typing skills. Creative and innovative thinking abilities.
Excellent interpersonal skills. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tack and
discretion. Preparedness to work long hours and under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial functions to the manager through organising the manager’s
affairs by maintaining and organising the diary, arrange meetings, confirm
appointments and remind the senior manager of engagements. Prepare the
senior manager’s in-basket in respect of incoming communications, e-mails,
telephone messages, photocopying, etc. Draft routine correspondence and
reports for the senior manager. Receive telephone calls and refer the calls to
the correct role players. Consolidate reports on request. Maintain a filing
system for the office and Directorate. Serve as a Chief user for the office for
procurement purposes. Provide clerical support service to the senior manager.
Process travel and subsistence claims for the senior manager. Maintain office
expenditure for the office. Maintain inventory register of all assets within the
office. Keep a database of important contact numbers. Keep abreast with
relevant Public Service and Departmental prescript/policies and other
documents to ensure that the application thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pretty Sibinde Tel No: [013] 766 3320/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No: [013]
766 3232
POST 20/243 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER OSD GRADE1 [X3 POSTS]
SALARY : R200 691 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District: Bushbucridge (Oakley Office) Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/BBR/OAK/26/45
Ehlanzeni District: Mbombela (Kabokweni) Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/EHL/KAB/26/46
Gert Sibande District: Govan Mbeki (Leandra Office) Ref No:
DSD/JUNE/GER/LEA/26/47
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 12 plus completion of the learnership to allow registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social
Auxiliary Worker, Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary Worker. A
valid code B drivers’ licence. Competences: Knowledge and basic
181
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues, South African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services, South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work. Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work. Skills needed: Good
communication (written and verbal). Proven computer literacy: information and
knowledge management (Keep precise records and compile accurate reports).
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with rendering of social work
service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through relevant
departmental programmes. Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form. Continuous
professional development. Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pretty Sibinde Tel No: [013] 766 3320/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No: [013]
766 3232
POST 20/244 : CHILD AND CARE WORKER: OSD GRADE 1 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R191 694 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : George Hofmeyer CYCC Ref No: DSD/JUNE/GHM/CYC/26/42
Nkangala In-Patient Treatment Centre Ref No: DSD/JUNE/NKA/CYC/26/43
Hendrina Secure Care Centre Ref No: DSD/JUNE/HSC/CYC/26/44
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised NQF Level 4 in Child and Youth Care Worker or
Grade 12 with relevant experience in Child and Youth Care Work environment.
Current registration with the SACSSP Council as a Child and Youth Care
Worker. Ability to mentor children and youth with maturity, patience and
sensitivity. Valid Driver’s license.
DUTIES : Receive children and youth beneficiaries into the care facility after admission.
Ensure that children and youth receive medical services. Assist with the
implementation of planned activities, development therapeutic programmes.
Engage in basic life space work to promote development and care of children
and youth. Perform administration work relevant to the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pretty Sibinde Tel No: [013] 766 3320/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No: [013]
766 3232
POST 20/245 : CLEANER REF NO: DSD/JUN/PRO/CLE/26/48
SALARY : R144 024 per annum, (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Office of The HOD (Indwe Building)
REQUIREMENTS : ABET level 3/ Grade 10/ Standard 8. Skills needed: Ability to work under
pressure and remain focused towards productivity. Basic knowledge of health
and safety. Knowledge on utilization of cleaning and gardening equipment.
Ability to perform routine tasks.
DUTIES : Provide a clean and conducive working environment both inside and outside
the offices to the officials and clients. Provide cleaning services within the office
of appointment. Ensure general hygiene. Serve tea, juice, etc. to clients and
officials during meetings. Be able to prioritize work and keep equipment clean
and in a good working condition. Responsible for safe keeping of household,
gardening equipment as well as crockery and cutlery in the kitchen. Report any
defects in the workplace to the immediate supervisor. Keep a register of
cleaning material that is distributed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pretty Sibinde Tel No: [013] 766 3320/ Ms. Thembi Manana Tel No: [013]
766 3232
182
ANNEXURE AA
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH-WEST
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number, must be forwarded as
follows:
The Directorate - Dr Kenneth Kaunda District Services: The District
Director, Dr Kenneth Kaunda District Services, Potchefstroom Agricultural
College, Potchefstroom, for attention of Ms C Hilderbrand Tel No: (018) 288
6685 or Email to dardrecruitment-DKK@nwpg.gov.za
The Directorate - Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati District Services: The
District Director, Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati District Services, for attention of
Ms. R. Ningisa, Tel No: (053) 928 0625 or hand deliver to Mini Garona Building
Vryburg or Email to dardrecruitmentDRSM@nwpg.gov.za
The Directorate - Ngaka Modiri Molema District Services: The District
Director, Ngaka Modiri Molema District Services Mmabatho, for attention of Ms.
K. Mangwegape Tel No: (018) 384 0172 or hand deliver at Training Centre
Building, Corner Onkgopotse Tiro & Moshweshwe Road, Mmabatho
dardrecruitment-NMM@nwpg.gov.za
The Directorate - Bojana District Services: The District Director, Bojanala
District Services Rustenburg, for attention of Mr. O.J. Dithole, Tel No: (014) 592
0262. or Email to dardrecruitment-BOJ@nwpg.gov.za
All posts for Mahikeng - Head Office, The Director Human Resource
Management, Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, Directorate:
Human Resource Management, for attention of Ms Keneilwe Modiegi or hand
deliver at the Training Centre Building, Corner Onkgopotse Tiro &
Moshweshwe Road, Mmabatho or Email to Dardrecruitment-
HO@nwpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 03 July 2026
NOTE : This Department is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. It is
our intention to promote representatively (race, gender and disability) in the
Department through the filling of these posts and candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive
preference. Applications must be accompanied by improved Z83 Employment
Form (81/971431) obtainable from any Public Service Department and
accessible on the website, www.dpsa.gov.za. The improved Z83 Form must be
fully completed in all areas signed and dated. Should the applicant use
incorrect application form for employment (Z83), the application/s will not be
considered for selection purposes (disqualified). The completed and signed
form Z83 should be accompanied by a recently updated, comprehensive CV
and ID copy as well as three contactable referees. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interviews. Non-RSA citizens/permanent resident permit holders must attach a
copy of their permanent residence permit to their applications. Should you
possess a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Failure to
submit the requested documents will result in the Application not being
considered. All qualifications will be verified. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One shall be a
practical exercise, and the other an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment.
Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an additional criterion
in the interview process. It will be expected of candidates to be available for
selection interviews on a date, time and place as determined by the
Department. Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. No
faxed or copied application will be considered. Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. All appointments are subjected to personnel
suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship verification, financial/asset
record checks, qualification /study verification and previous employment
verification, reference checks and security vetting. SMS appointments are also
subjected to SMS competency assessment as a DPSA requirement. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts and positions with requisite skills will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Applicants who do not possess Nyukela Pre Entry
183
Certificate shall be considered for shortlisting and interviews but cannot be
appointed before they successfully obtain pre-entry certificate. (SMS Pre Entry
Programme) is offered by the National School of government, information can
be accessed via this link: http://www.thensg.gov.za. The appointee to SMS post
must be in possession of such, prior to taking up the post. The Department
reserves the right not to make appointment for the advertised posts. The
successful candidates will enter into an employment contract with the
Department that will be reviewed based on performance.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/246 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: NWDARD 01/06/26
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Head Office – Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification (NQF Level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Public
Administration/ Human Resources / Legal Services/ Communications/
Information Technology or equivalent qualification. A minimum of 5 years of
experience at the Senior Management level. A valid driver’s license. In-depth
knowledge and understanding of corporate services management in public
service. Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership skills. Programme
and project management skills. Financial management skills. Change
management skills. Knowledge management skills. Service delivery innovation
skills. Problem-solving and analysis skills. People management and
empowerment skills. Client orientation and customer focus. Communication
skills. Honesty and integrity. Networking and presentation skills. Computer
skills. Excellent, in-depth knowledge of and insight into all applicable policy
frameworks governing the public sector.
DUTIES : Oversee the rendering of Human Resource Management & Development
Services within the Department. Manage the provision of strategic support and
administration services. Oversee the legal support services of the Department.
Oversee security compliance and transformation within the Department.
Oversee the management of ICT and Knowledge management within the
Department. Ensure departmental compliance to the PAIA and POPIA. Monitor
Communications Services within the Department. Coordinate strategic
planning cycle, strategic and business plans. Collate organizational
performance reports quarterly and annually. Manage and provide support
services to the entire department. Manage information by ensuring that all
information in the department is secure/accessible/reliable and properly
recorded. Minimize risk to the department by ensuring that controls for all
internal processes are in place. Develop and implement efficient reporting
systems to ensure optimal internal decision-making for management. Manage
the departmental PMDS for Senior Management Services in line with the
Annual Performance Plan and implementation plan as well as annual report.
Provide financial and personnel leadership and ensure overall management
and control of the Chief Directorate Corporate Services.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. H. Kekana Tel No: (018) 384 3134
POST 20/247 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: NWDARD 02/06/26
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Head Office – Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. An LLB Degree (NQF level 7) as recognised by
SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience at middle/ Senior management level in Legal
Services. Computer Literacy. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Sound and
in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, application of Human Resources
prescripts as well as understanding of the legislative framework governing
Public Service such as Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Public Service Act,
Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, Promotion of Access to Information
Act, Public Service Regulations and various Bargaining Council resolutions.
Skills: Negotiation skills, Planning and Organizing, Time Management, Policy
Analysis and Development, Good Communication skills, Group Dynamics,
Diversity Management, Facilitation skills, Coordination skills, Knowledge
Management skills. Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership,
People Management and Empowerment, Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
184
Management, Service delivery innovation, Problem Solving and analysis,
Client orientation, Customer Focus and Communication.
DUTIES : Offer legal opinions and advices by advising MEC on appeals lodged against
administrative decisions taken in terms of legislation guiding the department,
studying and researching the case at hand to give an informed opinion,
analysing and checking prospects of success, giving advice to proceed or not,
liaising with experts on the relevant fields of law and advising on settlement to
avoid unnecessary legal costs. Monitor Legal Contracts by scrutinizing
agreements and comply with prescribed procedure for the conclusion of
binding documents, identifying the intention of the contract and provide legal
advice during conceptualization of the contract, conducting risk assessment to
avoid unnecessary financial loss and litigation, consulting with staff and
external parties involved in the contract, liaising with State Law Advisors on
contracts and rendering regular workshops on contracts. Communicate with
State Attorney on litigation matters involving the department by managing the
investigation and compiling relevant documents to State Attorney, dealing with
litigation on behalf of the department through the State Attorney, conducting
research on case at hand to establish state liabilities, giving instructions to
State Attorney during court proceedings, managing the investigation and
compilation of evidence from Staff and Management, managing the cases
referred to the State Attorney with regards to dates and ensuring court
appearance by officials and avoid prescription, assisting State Attorney to
prepare briefs to advocates where necessary and verifying correctness of the
invoices for payment of the State Attorney. Ensure that there is sound labour
stability and by providing support to Legal Services directorate and Corporate
Management Services. Management of the directorate budget in accordance
with the financial management prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. H. Kekana Tel No: (018) 384 3134
POST 20/248 : DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT REF NO: NWDARD 03/06/26
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Head Office – Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate. A relevant (NQF level 7) qualification as recognized by
SAQA in Public Management/Administration/Monitoring and Evaluation or
equivalent recognised by SAQA. A minimum five (5) years’ experience at
middle/ Senior management level within Strategic Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation environment. Valid Drivers’ License. Knowledge: Extensive
appropriate strategic management, Public 308 policies and strategies. Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge of Public Services Act, public
services regulations and frameworks. Ability Conceptualise policy and apply it
successfully. Knowledge of Research and policy coordination. Skills: High level
of written and verbal communication with ability to make presentations.
Services delivery innovative and management skills. Leadership and
administrative skills. High level of proficiency in financial management as well
as ability to hold himself/herself accountable. Proven computer literacy. Ability
to interact professionally and effectively with diverse Stakeholders. Analytic
skill and problem-solving skills. Have the ability to generate new idea and
improve where circumstances require. Personal Attributes: Must have good
interpersonal skills and be able to maintain positive interpersonal relations.
Ability to work independently and as part of the team. Must be willing to travel
and be able to work under pressure. Must be able to manage and empower
staff. High level of reliability, ability to act with tact and discretion.
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership, People Management and
Empowerment, Programme and Project Management, Financial Management,
Change Management, Knowledge Management, Service delivery innovation,
Problem Solving and analysis, Client orientation, Customer Focus and
Communication.
DUTIES : Develop and manage the implementation of Departmental policies, strategic
guidelines, directives and procedures with regards to performance information.
Facilitate and coordinate operational and strategic planning processes.
Manage the monitoring processes. Formulate and manage the component
budget against its strategic objective. Ensure effective people management
and empowerment in the Directorate. Manage the evaluation processes.
Manage Departmental Research and evaluation plan. Commission research
and evaluation studies in the Department. Oversee the Conducting of research
185
in the Department. Manage personnel of the Directorate and provide effective
guidance on implementation of Government policies and regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. H. Kekana Tel No: (018) 384 3134
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/249 : STATE VETERINARIAN REF NO: NWDARD 04/06/26 (X9 POSTS)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Ratlou, Naledi, Molopo
Lekwa-Teemane
GreaterTaung
Moses kotane
Kgetleng
Potchefstroom
Maquassi Hills State Veterinary Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF 8 BVSc/BVMCh Degree as recognize by the SAQA.
Compulsory registration with south African Veterinary Council. One-to-two-year
post qualification experience. Understanding of the application of the Animal
Diseases Act (Act 35 of 1984). An understanding of the Meat Safety Act (Act
40 of 2000). A good understanding of the Import and Export facilitation
protocols. Understanding of the Animal Disease Eradication Schemes of South
Africa (TB and CA Schemes). A good knowledge and understanding of the
Departmental Flagship Projects and action support needed thereof. Computer
literacy, Financial Management, Statistical, Research, Analytical,
Communication and interpretation skills. Valid driver’ s license.
DUTIES : To provide risk assessment of potential hazardous situations in area that
involve Animal Health. Managing and Co-ordinating the Brucellosis Scheme in
the State Veterinary area. Assessing the prevalence of TB in the area and
instituting the necessary control measures. Participating in the Departmental
Primary Animal Health Care (PAHC) project through providing necessary
secondary intervention function. Conducting risk assessment on all
commodities that are destined for export. Ensure compliance of all imported
commodities arriving in the State Veterinary area. Inspecting and registering
all facilities that intend to export commodities out of South Africa. Preparing the
State Veterinary office operational budget requirements and inputs into the
Regional MTEF budgets. Preparing the work statistics and data management.
Participating in the compilation of personnel work plans and evaluation of
personnel performance in a State Veterinary office (PMDS). Reporting to line
function manager.
ENQUIRIES : Dr LS Madyibi Tel No: (018) 389 - 5102/5057
POST 20/250 : STATE VETERINARIAN - VETERINARY LABORATORY REF NO: NWDARD
13/06/26 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Vryburg and Potchefstroom Veterinary Laboratory
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF 8 BVSc/BVMCh Degree as recognize by the SAQA.
Compulsory registration with south African Veterinary Council. One-to-two-year
post qualification experience. Understanding of the application of the Animal
Diseases Act (Act 35 of 1984). An understanding of the Meat Safety Act (Act
40 of 2000). A good understanding of the Import and Export facilitation
protocols. Understanding of the Animal Disease Eradication Schemes of South
Africa (TB and CA Schemes). A good knowledge and understanding of the
Departmental Flagship Projects and action support needed thereof. Computer
literacy, Financial Management, Statistical, Research, Analytical,
Communication and interpretation skills. Valid driver’ s license.
DUTIES : Sampling coordination. Provide professional guidance to clients when
submitting samples and requesting laboratory services. Laboratory
investigations of diagnostic samples and conducting of necropsies, and
professional guidance to laboratory analysis on types and methods of tests to
be carried out. Write test reports with professional recommendations. Know
disease conditions of the province and provide guidance to peers. Conduct on-
farm investigations of disease outbreaks and unusual or inconclusive
laboratory cases. Conduct extension work. Implement the technical
requirements of ISO 17025. Participate in all accreditation work. Implement
OHS at section level *Manage and control subordinates’ key performance
186
areas in accordance with departmental policies. Compile reports and report to
management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr LS Madyibi, Tel No: (018) 389 - 5102
POST 20/251 : CONTROL ANIMAL HEALTH TECHNICIAN REF NO: NWDARD 14/06/26
(X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Bojanala, Ngaka Modiri Molema and Veterinary Trade: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree in Animal Health / National Diploma or equivalent.
Registration with the South African Veterinary Council (SAVC). Minimum of 6
year’s hands on experience Supervisor experience will be an added
advantage. Computer literacy. Good understanding of the Animal Disease Act
35 of 1984. Must possess a certificate for TB and CA course. Valid drivers’
license.
DUTIES : Supervise implementation of vaccination programs on Controlled Diseases
according to the Animal Disease Act. Supervise the activities of Primary Animal
Health Care. Supervise the organisation and implementation of community
clinics. Supervise conduction National and Provincial Survey of prescribed
diseases in the North West province. Supervise implementation of the
Brucellosis and Tuberculosis Eradication Schemes in the North West Province.
Participate in the movement of buffaloes within and in or out of the North West
Province. Reporting to line function manager. Implement Performance
Management Development System for subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Dr LS Madyibi Tel No: (018) 384 3123
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted online, or hand delivered at the Directorate of
Human Resource Management, Second Floor, Ga-rona Building, Mmabatho.
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026 at 16H00 (walk-in and online), late application will not be
considered.
NOTE : All attachments for online applications including the Z83 and CV must be one
document in PDF, indicating the correct job title and the reference number of
the post on the subject line of your e-mail. Use the correct e-mail address
associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified.
All applications must indicate the correct reference number. The Office of the
Premier is an equal employment opportunity and affirmative action employer,
and it is committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and equity
in employment, especially in respect of race, gender and disability. In terms of
the Employment Equity Plan for the Office, preference will be given to Persons
with Disabilities, Youth, and Females for all these positions. Applications must
be submitted on the approved Z83 form (81/971431) obtainable from any
Public Service Department or on the DPSA website, www.dpsa.gov.za, which
must be completed in such a manner that provide sufficient information about
your candidature and the post applied for by completing all relevant fields. The
declaration must be signed and initials in the second page are not mandatory.
The Office reserves the right to introduce further objective criteria or post
requirements for shortlisting should such a need arise. Should the applicant/s
use incorrect application form for employment (Z83), or not compliant with the
notes, the application applicant/s will not be considered for selection
purposes(disqualified). The Z83 must be accompanied by detailed Curriculum
Vitae clearly indicating positions held, period in the position and key
responsibilities with three contactable referees. Subject of relevant
qualification/s should be mentioned in the CV. Part A must be fully completed.
Part B, C and D questions of the Z83 may be left blank, marked as not relevant,
and use dashes or N/A if they do not apply to you or the position applied for.
Part E, F and G do not need to be completed if the CV has been attached and
provides the required information, However, the question related to conditions
that prevent re-appointment under Part F is compulsory for applicants seeking
re-employment into the Public Service. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application. The
communication from the HR Directorate regarding the requirements for
certified documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
HR. Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your application
187
not being considered. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Appointment into SMS positions will be made only upon submission of the SMS
pre-entry programme (Nyukela) certificate. Suitable SMS candidate/identified
by the selection panel will be required to undergo competency assessment
prior to being appointed. Incomplete Z83 and late applications will not be
considered. Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only.
Successful candidates for the advertised positions will be required to undergo
personnel suitability checks, which include criminal records, citizenship,
financial checks, qualifications, and previous employment (Reference checks).
It is the responsibility of the applicant to make sure that the South African
Qualifications Authority evaluates foreign qualifications, and the evaluation
certificate will be required on or before the day of the interview following
communication from HR. If you do not hear from the Office, three months from
the date of the advertisement, consider your application unsuccessful. The
Office reserves the right not to make an appointment following this
advertisement for any reason.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/252 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DIRECTOR-GENERAL SUPPORT REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2026/21
Job Purpose: Coordinate the Provision of Administrative Support Services to
the Director-General’s office.
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in Public Administration/Public Management
and/or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 and/ or equivalent qualifications
(NQF level and credits). 6 years’ experience in Office administration of which 3
years should be in Office administration of which 3 years should be in Assistant
Director level. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Knowledge and
understanding of Government policies; Knowledge of computer, Basic
knowledge of financial administration, Good telephone etiquette, Good
communication skills, Problem solving skills. Research Skills. Computer
literacy. Self-management, Ability to act tact and to do research and analyse
documents and situations. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Coordination of administrative support to the Director-General. Coordination of
secretariat support to the Director General meetings. Coordination of liaison
with all spheres of government on provincial administration issues.
Management of administrative activities in the Office of the Director-General.
Write reports. Provide secretariat services to senior and executive
management meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Melokwe Tel No: (018) 388 3040
APPLICATIONS : e-mail: ooprecruitment1@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/253 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING AND
TRANSFORMATION REF NO: NWP/OOP/2026/22
Job Purpose: To facilitate and coordinate the implementation of
transformation/special programmes in the departmental strategies and
implementation plans. Facilitate organizational change management to
achieve measurable results.
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : As a minimum, a National Diploma / Degree in Public Management/Public
Administration/Social Sciences or Equivalent. 3-5 relevant experience in the
co-ordination of Special Programmes and Strategic Planning Programmes of
which 2 years must be at supervisory level. Knowledge and understanding of
Departmental processes, Strategic Planning and Special Programmes
environment. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies:
Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts, understanding of
legislative frameworks, policies and strategies on Strategic Planning and
Transformation: UN Treaties, Government Planning and Transformation
Policies, Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act, Preferential
188
Procurement Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act,
Public Service Act, Public service regulations and Management of human and
financial resources. Analytical, critical & innovative thinking, Presentation and
Facilitation, Presentation and facilitation, Report writing, Leadership, Project
Management, Conflict Management, Financial and Strategic Management,
Policy analysis implementation.
DUTIES : Ensure departmental compliance to national and provincial legislation and
policies. Develop plans, initiate projects and support the implementation of the
Strategic Planning & Special Programmes (Women empowerment, rights of
Persons with Disability, Older Persons, Military Veterans as well as Youth
Development), in the department. Co-ordinate the activities/events and liaise
with the stakeholders at various levels. Provide support and assist with
monitoring the functionality of the various Forums, Structures and Clusters as
well as ensuring effective implementation of Programmes of all related policies
and other relevant legislations at provincial and district level. Co-ordinate the
workshops/training and capacity building programmes for various Forums and
Structures of the Department. Compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports
on the Departmental Performance of the Strategic and Special Programmes
activities. Ensure effective management of departmental assets and finances
in accordance with the PFMA. Overall supervision and management of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Kubeka Tel No: (018) 388 5815
APPLICATIONS : e-mail: ooprecruitment2@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/254 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PLANNING & RESEARCH: PROVINCIAL
COUNCIL ON AIDS REF NO: NWP/OOP/2026/23
Re-advert.
Job Purpose: To coordinate multi-sectoral planning and research on matters
related to HIV, STI’S and TB
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three - year tertiary qualification at NQF level 6 and/ or equivalent
qualifications (NQF level and credits) 3 years’ experience applicable in the
relevant field of which 2 must be at supervisory level. A Valid driver’s license.
Knowledge, Skills & Competencies: Knowledge of Research Methodology, M
& E Frameworks and assessment tools. Knowledge of database management,
Knowledge of HIV Strategies, legislation & policy frameworks, Knowledge of
South African and Provincial environment with regard to HIV & AIDS.
Knowledge of project management. Knowledge of financial management.
Knowledge of the Public Service Legislative Framework. Computer literacy
skills in Excel, Word, PowerPoint and Reporting skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate HIV, STI’S and TB research matters; establish multi-sectoral HIV and
AIDS research coordinating mechanism and a Provincial Research agenda.
Provide relevant input on HIV, STIs and TB research matters. Facilitate the
research database in collaboration with the Provincial Research Directorate.
Participate in the Provincial Research Forum. Manage circulation of
information about any new research done in the province in relation to HIV,
STIs and TB related matters. Develop Provincial Strategic Planning (PSP);
Participate in the drafting of PSP and consultation process. Liaise Sub-Branch:
Integrate Planning and SALGA during the development of PSP. Compile
reports on consultation conducted with stakeholder. Consolidate inputs to the
draft PSP. Facilitate the printing of the signed PSP. Participate in the distribution
of printed PSP. Present the PSP to the Local and District AIDS councils.
Provide support and guidance to government departments, NGO’s,
Businesses and Labour Organisations during the development of HIV, STI’s
and TB operational plans and facilitate the development of operational plans
for Civil Society Sectors.
ENQUIRIES : MS. SM Mokgothu Tel No: (018) 388 5096
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: ooprecruitment3@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/255 : OFFICE MANAGER: DDG: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: NWP/OOP/2026/24
Re-advert.
Job Purpose: To manage the office of the Deputy Director General
Administration.
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
189
REQUIREMENTS : Three -year tertiary qualification in office administration / secretarial studies at
NQF level 6 or any other relevant and equivalent qualifications as recognized
by SAQA. 3 years’ experience as a secretary or administration officer.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Basic knowledge of Batho Pele
Principles, Public Finance Management Act, Public Service Act, Knowledge
and understanding of Public Service Policies and Procedures, Good
communication ( verbal and written), Good telephone etiquette, Problem
solving, Report writing, Customer care, Computer literate, Basic knowledge of
financial administration , Sound organizational and managerial skills. Ability to
act with tact and discretion. Willingness to work extended hours.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the office of the Deputy Director General.
Provide secretarial services to the Deputy Director General’s meetings.
Manage the Deputy Director General’s Schedule/ Itinerary. Co-ordinate
Deputy Director General’s meetings. Ensure effective and professional liaison
within the Branch, Clients Departments and stakeholders. Perform any other
ad hoc services relevant to the office of the Deputy Director General.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Mofokeng Tel No: (018) 388 1593/5502
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: ooprecruitment3@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/256 : REPORTER REF NO: NWP/OOP/2026/25
Job Purpose: To inform and report effectively and efficiently to communities
about programmes, activities and policies of government.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in Journalism, Communication, Media studies
at NQF level 6 and/ or related field. 2 years’ experience in Journalism, reporting
or corporate communication of which 1 year should be at supervisory level.
Valid Driver’s License. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Strategic
Planning thinking and planning, strong interpersonal engagement skills,
Attention to details and high level of professionalism, Integrity, reliability and
commitment to public service. Computer Literacy, Print and social media
current affairs awareness. Journalistic writing skills, Investigative and reporting
skills News gathering and interview skills.
DUTIES : Research, write, and produce high-quality news articles, feature stories,
speeches, and media content for print, digital, and broadcast platforms. Cover
government programmes, events, and community engagements across the
province. Provide accurate, timely, and compelling reporting on the work of the
Premier and the Provincial Government. Develop and maintain strong
relationships with media houses and stakeholders. Contribute to content
development for newsletters, websites, and social media platforms. Monitor
media coverage and compile reports, including analysis of public sentiment.
Support crisis communication and rapid response messaging when required.
Ensure all communication aligns with government policies, protocols, and
branding guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O Bogatsu/ Mr. I Mokaila Tel No: (018) 388 4969/ 5828
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: ooprecruitment4@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/257 : SENIOR EMPLOYEE HEALTH & WELLNESS PRACTITIONER REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2026/26
Job Purpose: To implement Employee Health and Wellness pillar programmes
in the office of the Premier.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three- year tertiary qualification in Social Work or Psychology at NQF level 6
and/or equivalent qualification (NQF level and credits). Registration with South
African Council of Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social Worker or
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Registered Counsellor.
2 years’ relevant experience in employee health and wellness of which 1 year
should be at supervisory level. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge, Skills and
Competencies: Knowledge of Employee Health and Wellness Strategy for the
Public Service, and all its related Policies. Knowledge of OHS Act. Knowledge
of NSP on HIV and AIDS 2023-2028. Counselling skills, problem solving and
Decision-making Skills, knowledge of computer, Interpersonal relationship,
conflict resolution, project management, policy implementation, co-ordination
and ability to chair a meeting. verbal and written communication skills,
190
presentation skills. Planning and organizing skills. Analytical and facilitation
skills, team player.
DUTIES : Implement and ensure compliance with policies and standards that regulate
EHW and report on them. Management of HIV & AIDS/TB in the office. Provide
support on Wellness management aspects. Provide Health and Productivity
management services to OOP employees. Provide support on Sports and
Recreation Management. Manage Bereavement and Workplace Violence
including Gender Based Violence. Manage the effective functioning of the
EHW Committee. Marketing the role of the EHW. Conduct needs assessment,
Manage the infected and affected employees regarding health and wellness
matters. Provide treatment and care support mechanisms. Render direct EHW
services to employees of the office. Consult and train relevant stakeholders on
EHW procedures. Conduct diagnostic assessments, short-term interventions,
referral and follow-up services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. BC Maseng Tel No: (018) 388 3440
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: ooprecruitment5@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/258 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: NWP/OOP/2026/27
Job Purpose: To implement Management Accounting systems and procedures
in the Office of the Premier.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in Financial Management or Accounting at
NQF level 6 and/or equivalent qualifications (NQF Level and Credits). 2
experience in Financial Management and Accounting of which 1 year should
be at supervisory level. Knowledge, Skills & Competencies: Public Finance
Management Act; Public Service Regulations; Treasury Regulations. Basic
Accounting systems; experience in cash flow, budgeting and expenditure
control. Computer literacy skills (Excel, Word, PowerPoint); Communication
skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Consolidate, check, collect and prepare financial support information for
completion of the budgeting (MTEF) and planning purposes. Prepare requests
for roll-over, virements/ shift processes, Adjustment budget estimates, monthly
forecasting and produce adjusted cash flow. Coordinate management and
monitoring of budget revenue and expenditure trends. Authorization of journals
and the provision of revenue services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Rapoo Tel No: (018) 388- 2516
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: ooprecruitment6@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/259 : SENIOR COMMUNICATION OFFICER: BRANDING AND MARKETING REF
NO: NWP/OOP/2026/28
Re-Advert.
Job Purpose: Provide an effective Marketing and branding Corporate
Communication Strategy.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in corporate communication, public
management at NQF level 6 and/or equivalent qualifications (NQF Level and
Credits). 2 experiences in Communications/ Corporate Branding and
Marketing 1 year should be at supervisory level. Computer literary in MS Word,
MS Excel and PowerPoint. Valid Drivers ‘license. The Incumbent must be
willing to travel. A certificate in graphic design and relevant experience as
layout artist and web development will be added advantage. Knowledge, Skills
& Competencies: Knowledge of Corporate communication and marketing,
good communication skills, Report writing skills, facilitate skills, Coordinate
skills, Conflict resolution, problem solving, project management skills,
Leadership and presentation, Interpret and innovative thinking and Research
skills.
DUTIES : Implement an effective Marketing and branding Strategy. Coordinate Website
content, update internal notice boards, Coordinate internal events. Develop
marketing flyers, Posters etc. Coordinate Website Content. Arrange Website
Content Management Forum quarterly meetings, Communicate organization’s
activities, products and/or services. Enhance the reputation of the North West
Government Corporate brand: Ensure that district offices are well branded,
Coordinate the process of procuring branding, business cards, corporate gifts,
191
calendars and diaries, Implement concepts and projects plans, Write a well-
researched articles for Corporate Communication Marketing materials and
Publications, Attend and presents Communication plans during events plenary
meetings, Develop branding plans, Regular/constant interaction with
government clients, stakeholders, etc. Arrange exhibition and branding
materials during outreach programme and events, Distribute information
products during public events, Generate reports/ action plans after public
meetings, Provide districts with branding and marketing support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Isaac Mokaila Tel No: (018) 388- 5828
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: ooprecruitment7@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/260 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: DDG: ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2026/29
Re-advert.
Job Purpose: To render a secretariat support service to the Deputy Director
General.
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary qualification in management assistant/ secretarial studies
at NQF level 6 or any other relevant and equivalent qualifications as recognized
by SAQA. 2 years’ experience applicable to the relevant discipline. Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Prescripts / Policies. Good
Communication (verbal and written), excellent customer relations, good
telephone etiquette, computer literate, problem solving, report writing and
interpersonal skills. Must have the ability to take initiatives, work independently
and under pressure. Basic financial administration.
DUTIES : Provides secretarial and receptionist support services in the Office of the
Deputy Director General. Manage the DDG’s schedule of appointments and
meetings. Render general administrative support services. Provides support
to the DDG regarding meetings. Manage DDG’s office budget. Manage the
DDG’s travel arrangements and handle all correspondence. Keep abreast with
of legislative prescripts/ policies & procedures applicable to the work terrain.
Financial tasks: This can Include managing the Office’s expenses and keeping
track of budgets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Mofokeng Tel No: (018) 388 1593/5502
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: ooprecruitment8@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/261 : DISTRICT COORDINATOR: PROVINCIAL COUNCIL ON AIDS REF NO:
NWP/OOP/2026/30
Re-Advert.
Job Purpose: To Coordinate and Monitor the Implementation of the District
Multi-Sectoral Implementation Plan (PIP) on HIV, TB and STIs
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bojanala District
REQUIREMENTS : Three - year appropriate tertiary qualification at NQF level 6 and/ or equivalent
qualifications (NQF level and credits). 2 years’ applicable experience in the
relevant field. A Valid driver’s license. Knowledge, Skills & Competencies:
Knowledge of database management, Knowledge of HIV Strategies, legislation
& policy frameworks, Knowledge of South African and Provincial environment
with regard to HIV & AIDS. Knowledge of the Public Service Legislative
Framework. Computer literacy skills in Excel, Word, PowerPoint and Reporting
skills.
DUTIES : Mobilise and coordinate stakeholders for multi-sectoral response to HIV, TB
and STIs; Strengthen public-private partnership For Implementation of the
Multi-Sectoral District Implementation Plan on HIV, TB and STIs; Provide
secretariat services to the District AIDS Council; Monitor Implementation of the
multi-sectoral District Plan and interventions on HIV, TB and STIs; Support and
monitor the Civil Society Participation in the Multi-sectoral response to HIV, TB
and STIs; Coordinate the Implementation of the Multi Sectoral District
Implementation Plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S.M Mokgothu Tel No: (018) 388 5096
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: ooprecruitment9@nwpg.gov.za
192
POST 20/262 : SECRETARY: PROVINCIAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: NWP/OOP/2026/31
Job Purpose: To provide secretarial services to the Director of Provincial
Human Resources Development.
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and/ or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA. Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies: Understanding of government procurement
procedures, Secretariat and administrative work, organisational knowledge
and understanding and Computer application knowledge. Administrative and
organisational skills, Document /record management, Oral and written
communication skills, Procurement of goods and services, typing, bookkeeping
and filling skills and Time management.
DUTIES : Provides Secretariat support services to the Director; Incoming mail received,
recorded manually and filed within 1 day, Outgoing mail recorded, filed and
dispatched within 1 day and manage the diary of the Director by updating
Director’s diary every day and send email as reminder to Director. Provide
clerical support services to the Director; Manage meeting logistics by sending
out meeting schedules, quarterly locate and book venues within 2 weeks, send
out invitations before the meeting and take minutes of meetings and distribute
minutes within 1 week of meeting for input. Provide support to the Director
regarding meetings, arrange accommodation for the Director, Complete S&T
claims for the Director, manage the reception area and procurement of goods
and services in the Directorate. Draft the Director’s weekly plan every Friday.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T.E Tlhale Tel No: (018) 388 1076
APPLICATIONS : e-mail: ooprecruitment10@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/263 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: BURSARIES, LEARNERSHIP AND
INTERNSHIPS PROGRAMMES REF NO: NWP/OOP/2026/32
Job Purpose: To Implement Provincial Bursary policy; International
Scholarships; Learnerships and Internship programmes.
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and/or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA. Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of Provincial Bursary Policy,
Management of human resources, Management of human and financial
resources, Quality of work, Acceptance of responsibility, Knowledge on bursary
administration and scholarships programmes, Good communication and report
writing skills, Administrative and clerical procedures such managing files and
records, designing forms, & others, Understanding of the Public Service
Regulations, Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, The Public Service
Act, 1994; Batho Pele principles; Labour Relations Act; NDP; The (PFMA)
Public Financial Management Act; Employment Equity Act; Skills Development
Act; Performance Management & Development System; Skills Development
Levy Act. Good communication skills; Report writing skills; Planning, control
and organising; Conflict resolution; Problem-solving skills; Project
management; Leadership and Presentation, Analytical and innovative thinking;
Computer literacy, Time management - Technical skills - Interpersonal -
Flexibility; Computer knowledge and application.
DUTIES : Implement the Provincial Bursary Policy. Coordinate International Scholarships
Programmes. Compile quarterly /annual reports, coordinate Learnership /
apprentices programme. Assess/analyse bursars’ academic performance
through interpretation of results and provide feedback. Provide student support
services. Compile bursary payments reconciliation reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T.E Tlhale Tel No: (018) 388 1076
APPLICATIONS : e-mail: ooprecruitment11@nwpg.gov.za
193
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND ROADS
This Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representatively (race, gender and disability) e.g. White, Indian, Coloured, African, in terms of equity plan
preference will be given to Disabilities, Youth, Females in the Department through the filling of posts.
People with disability are encouraged to apply. The candidates whose promotion/appointment will
promote representatively will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : All Applications must be Submitted Online, or Hand Delivered or Courier to
Registry Office No. Old Industrial Site, Waterfall Avenue, Rustenburg. The
District Manager, Department of Public Works and Roads, Private Bag X82063,
Rustenburg, 0300. Use the correct E-mail:
DPWRBOJANALARecruit@nwpg.gov.za For Attention: Acting Corporate
Manager – Mr. T.L. Kojane.
All Applications must be Submitted Online or Hand Delivered or Courier To
Registry Office no. 133, Ground Floor, East Wing - Old Parliament Building
Complex, Modiri Molema Road, Mmabatho, Addressed to: Human Resource
Manager, Private Bag X2080, Mmabatho, 2735. For Attention: HRM
Recruitment Unit - Mr. M.E Khauoe.
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026, All Handed/Courier/E-mailed Applications must have reached
the Department by 16h30 pm Walk-in and E-mail After (00h00 Mid-night) online
will, as a rule will not be accepted.
NOTE : On the subject line of your E-mail, indicate the correct name of the post and
the reference number also use the correct e-mail. All attachments for online
submission must include the Z83 Form and Updated Curriculum Vitae Only be
in PDF Format, also as One Document. Failure to do so, your application will
be disqualified. Compliance: Compliance: It is compulsory to fill all fields on the
New Amended Z83 Form (81/971431) as prescribed with effect 01 January
2021, part of declaration must be signed, dated and initialed only on the first
page. The Form is obtainable at any Public Service Departments and DPSA
Website, www.dpsa.gov.za. Part A the applicant(s) must indicate the correct
advertised Post name, Reference number and Centre. The Z83 Form must be
accompanied by a recently updated Curriculum Vitae with full personal details,
qualifications current and previous experience must be listed in date’s order,
with relevant requirements of the post including three (3) names of contactable
referees. Part B, C and D applicant must provide sufficient information relevant
to the post applying for. Parts B, C and E fields for date of birth, work permit,
business interest and preferred language, current study can be left blank if they
don’t apply to you. Part E, F and G may not be fill if your CV already has the
updated information. Applicant can skip experience section, but Part F is
compulsory to be completed if you are seeking re-employment into the Public
Service. Please note: It is a responsibility of a Person in possession of a foreign
qualification to furnish the Department with an evaluation certificate from South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) only when shortlisted. Only shortlisted
candidate(s) for post will be required to submit certified documents on or before
the day of the interview. NB: Senior Management Pre-entry Programme
Certificate: No applicant shall be recommended for appointment without
producing a Certificate of completion (Nyukela) as a mandatory requirement
obtainable via this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za, offered by the National
School of Government. Failure to submit the requested information will result
not being considered. Applications received after the closing date will, as a rule
not be accepted. It will be expected of candidates to be available for interview
process on a date, time and place as determined by the Department.
Applicant(s) previous background/reference checks will be verified through
contactable referees. Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required to undergo
personnel suitability checks, which include criminal records, citizenship,
financial credits, asset records, qualifications verification and vetting. Note: All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS Levels, shall undertake two (2) pre-
entry assessments and one (1) will be a practical exercise including an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment, according to the mandated DPSA directive. The
successful candidate will enter into an annual performance agreement. The
candidate annually will be requested to disclose his/her financial interest. The
Department reserves the right not to make appointment. Applicant requiring
additional information regarding advertised post must direct their enquiries to
the relevant person indicated. NB: Communication and Correspondence will
be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not heard from us within
six (6) months after the closing date, please accept that your application has
been unsuccessful.
194
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/264 : CHIEF ENGINEER (CIVIL-PAVEMENT, TRANSPORT AND MATERIALS)
GRADE A REF NO: H/O 01/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 317 108 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Experience: National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor’s
Degree in Civil Engineering [B Eng/ BSc (Eng)]. Six (6) years post qualification
technical experience in road infrastructure required. Professional registration
with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional
Engineer is compulsory. A valid driver’s license, willing to travel extensively.
Knowledge: Relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations. Management
information knowledge. Engineering Professional Act. National Land Transport
Act. Extensive knowledge of TMH and TRH Manuals and other industry specific
manuals. Skills – Programme and project management. Engineering legal and
operational compliance. Engineering operational communication. Process
Knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Engineering Design
and analysis knowledge. Research and development. Knowledge of civil
engineering (Pavement, Traffic and Transport unit) project design and analysis,
legal and operational compliance as well as the creation of a high-performance
culture. Applicable legislation and prescripts in the Civil and Construction
industries. Skills: Computer aided engineering application. Creating High
performance culture. Engineering and Professional judgement. Attributes –
Decisive, Credible, Flexible, Quality-oriented, Decision making, Team
leadership. Negotiation skills. Programme and project management skills.
Technical Report writing skills. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Perform final review and approvals or audits on new engineering designs
according to design principles or theory. Coordinate design efforts and
integration across disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current
technology. Pioneering of new engineering services and management
methods. Manage the execution of maintenance strategy through the provision
of appropriate structures, systems and resources. Set engineering
maintenance standards, specifications and service levels according to
organizational objectives to ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor
maintenance efficiencies according to organizational goals to direct or redirect
engineering services for the attainment of organizational objectives. Provide
technical consulting services for the operation on engineering related matters
to minimize possible engineering risks. Manage the operational capital project
portfolio for the operation to ensure effective resourcing according to
organizational needs and objectives. Manage subordinates’ key performance
areas by setting and monitoring performance standards. Ensure training and
development of production engineers, technicians, technologists and
candidate engineers to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to
sound engineering principles and codes of practice.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S. Diko Tel No: (018) 388 1395
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit5@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/265 : CHIEF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER - GRADE A REF NO: H/O
02/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 317 108 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Experience: National Senior Certificate plus National Higher
Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree in Civil Engineering or equivalent qualification in
the built environment. Six (6) years post-qualification project management
experience in construction required, preferably with experience in road
construction. Professional registration with the South African Council for
Project and Construction Management Professions (SACPCMP) as
Professional Construction Project Manager is compulsory. A valid driver’s
license, willing to travel extensively. Knowledge: Understanding of the following
acts: The Public Finance Management Act, Construction Industry Development
Board Act, Government Immovable Asset Management Act, Occupational
Health and Safety Act, Construction Regulations as well as Building
Regulations and Environmental Conservation Act. Knowledge and
understanding of the Government Procurement System. Good planning,
195
financial and budget skills. Sound analytical and good written and verbal
communication skills. Extensive understanding of the NEC, JBCC and GCC
form of contract. Knowledge of programme and project management, project
design and analysis, legal and operational compliance as well as the creation
of a high-performance culture. Applicable legislation and prescripts in the
Project Management field, Civil and Construction industries. Skills:
Communication skills, problem-solving and analysis skills, Decision making
and conflict management skills, Research and development, Strategic
capability and leadership, financial management and computer skills,
Negotiation skills. Programme and project management skills. Technical
Report writing skills. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Perform final review and approvals or audits on project designs according to
design principles or theory. Co-ordinate design efforts and integration across
disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current technology. Maintain
project operational effectiveness. Manage the execution of project
management strategy through the provision of appropriate structures, systems
and resources. Set project standards, specifications and service levels
according to organizational objectives to ensure optimum operational
availability. Ensure the availability and management of funds to meet the MTEF
objectives within the project environment/services. Ensure that construction
projects are implemented in line with the NHBRC requirements and standards.
Manage the operational capital project portfolio for the operation to ensure
effective resourcing according to organizational needs and objectives. Manage
the commercial added value of the discipline-related programmes and projects.
Allocate, monitor, control expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient
cash flow management. Allocate, monitor and control resources. Provide
technical consulting services for the operation of project related matters to
minimize possible project risks. Manage subordinates’ key performance areas
by setting and monitoring performance standards and taking actions to correct
deviations to achieve departmental objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S. Diko Tel No: (018) 388 1395
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit5@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/266 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A- INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION REF NO: H/O 03/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 317 108 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office-Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Experience: National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor’s
Degree in (B Eng/ BSC (Eng) or relevant qualification. Six years’ qualification
experience required as a registered professional Engineer. Compulsory
registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer. Valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Knowledge of Programme and project management engineering,
legal and operational Compliance. Engineering operational communication.
Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile
equipment operating skills. Engineering design and analysis knowledge
Research and development. Computer-aided engineering applications.
Creating high performance culture. Technical consulting. Engineering and
professional judgment. Skills: Strategic capability and leadership. Problem
solving and analysis Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. People Management. Planning and organizing. Conflict
management. Negotiation skills. Change Management. Problem solving and
analytical thinking.
DUTIES : Perform final review and approvals or audits on new engineering designs
according to design principles or theory. Co-ordinate design efforts and
integration across disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current
technology. Manage the execution of maintenance strategy through the
provision of appropriate structures, systems and resources. Allocate, control,
monitor and report on all resources. Compile risk logs and manages significant
risk according to sound risk management practice and organizational
requirements. Ensure the availability and management of funds to meet the
MTEF objectives within the engineering environment/services. Manage the
operational capital project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective
resourcing according to organizational needs and objectives. Manage the
development, motivation and utilization of human resources for the discipline
to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of engineering
196
services according to organizational needs and requirements. Manage
subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B.P Kgokong Tel No: (018) 388 1253
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit6@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/267 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A – INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
MONITORING REF NO: H/O 04/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 317 108 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Experience: National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor’s
Degree in (B Eng/ BSC (Eng) or relevant qualification. Six years’ qualification
experience required as a registered professional Engineer. Compulsory
registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer. A Valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Knowledge of Programme and project management engineering,
legal and operational Compliance. Engineering operational communication.
Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile
equipment operating skills. Engineering design and analysis knowledge
Research and development. Computer-aided engineering applications.
Creating high performance culture. Technical consulting. Engineering and
professional judgment. Skills: Strategic capability and leadership. Problem
solving and analysis Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer skills. People Management. Planning and organising. Conflict
management. Negotiation skills. Change Management, Problem solving and
analytical thinking.
DUTIES : Perform final review and approvals or audits on new engineering designs
according to design principles or theory. Co-ordinate design efforts and
integration across disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current
technology. Manage the execution of maintenance strategy through the
provision of appropriate structures, systems and resources. Allocate, control,
monitor and report on all resources. Compile risk logs and manages significant
risk according to sound risk management practice and organizational
requirements. Ensure the availability and management of funds to meet the
MTEF objectives within the engineering environment/services. Manage the
operational capital project portfolio for the operation to ensure effective
resourcing according to organizational needs and objectives. Manage the
development, motivation and utilization of human resources for the discipline
to ensure competent knowledge base for the continued success of engineering
services according to organizational needs and requirements. Manage
subordinates’ key performance areas by setting and monitoring performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B.P Kgokong Tel No: (018) 388 1253
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit6@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/268 : CHIEF TOWN AND REGIONAL PLANNER - GRADE A REF NO: H/O 05/2026
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 143 468 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mahikeng Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Experience National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor’s
Degree in Urban/Town/City and Regional planning or equivalent qualification.
Six (6) years post-qualification experience in the Town and Regional Planning.
Compulsory registration with the South African Council for Planners
(SACPLAN) as a Professional Town and Regional Planner. A valid driver’s
license, willing to travel extensively. Knowledge: Knowledge of programme and
project management. Extensive knowledge of Town & Regional legal and
operational compliance, Town & Regional systems and principles and Town &
Regional planning processes and procedures. Knowledge of relevant
legislation and policies. Knowledge of research and development in the Town
and Regional Planning Field. Knowledge of computer-aided applications;
Knowledge of creating a high-performance culture and technical consulting.
Skills: Professional judgement and accountability. Strategic management and
direction skills. Problem-solving and analysis. Decision-making. Team
leadership and analytical skills. Creativity. Self-management. Customer focus
and responsiveness skills. Delegation and development of others skills.
Planning, organising and execution skills. Ability to manage conflict. Language
proficiency skills. Knowledge management. Negotiation and change
197
management skills. Land tenure and land use management system skills.
Statistical and land information system analysis skills. Urban and rural
economic development planning as well as management of staff and team
skills. Good communication skills (verbal & written). Computer literacy in MS
Office.
DUTIES : Estimates the future needs for housing, business and industrial sites,
community facilities and open spaces in order to meet the needs of expansion
and renewal. Lead and direct the projections for future needs in traffic and
transportation to inform appropriate town and regional planning. Lead and
manage the application of town and regional planning principles in land
development. Ensure adherence to legal issues and requirements involving
community development and changes in housing and building codes.
Compilation of spatial development frameworks (SDF) (as part of the IDP
processes). Compile guidelines and evaluate land use management schemes
(LUMS). Ensure the availability and management of funds to meet the MTEF
objectives within the architectural environment/services. Allocate, monitor,
control expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow. Allocate,
monitor and control resources. Provide technical consulting services for the
operation of architectural related matters to minimize possible architectural
risks. Manage and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g. short-term
assignments and secondments within and across operations, in support of
individual development plans. Manage subordinates’ key performance areas
by setting and monitoring performance standards and taking actions to correct
deviations to achieve departmental objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S. Ntlatleng Tel No: (018) 388 1439
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit5@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/269 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BUILDINGS INSPECTORATE REF NO: BOJ 01/2026
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), an all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Bojanala District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate Bachelor’s
Degree (NQF Level 7) in Property Management/ Civil Engineering/ Quantity
Surveyor or related field in build environment. Experience: Minimum 3-5 years’
of experience in the built environment of which 3 year’s should be at Assistant
Director Level. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Knowledge and
understanding of building in the built environment. Monitoring and Evaluation.
Project closure. Building norms and standards. Building regulations and
contracts. Maintenance of various equipment. Measuring and estimating of
value of works and compilation of tender documents for various Projects.
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of government policies
and planning systems. Skills: Computer (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint).
Management Skill. Communication skill (verbal & written). Project
Management. Conflict Management Skill. Planning and Organising. Analysis
and problem solving. Report writing. Planning, Design and execution. Ability to
influence and motivate others including members of the public and client
departments. Assertiveness. Problem Solving. Good planner, Team builder and
coordinator. Client and market orientation. Flexibility and teamwork. Receptive
to suggestions and ideas. Excellent coordination. Willingness to work under
pressure. Ability to meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Manage and provide day to day routine maintenance, repairs and renovations
of buildings In the district. Deliver, repair and renovate projects in line with
Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS). Respond to Infrastructure
Programme Management Plan with Infrastructure Programme Implementation
Plan. Approve implementation of repair and renovations and maintenance
reports. Ensure tender documents are accurate. Ensure compliance with
relevant Acts, Joint Building Contract Committee. Implementation of minor
building projects. Manage contract and reporting. Interact with Community,
Stakeholders, Municipalities, Public Entities and Provincial Departments.
Manage building maintenance in service points. Manage the resources of the
Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K.R Morena at (087) 086 5944
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRBOJANALARecruit@nwpg.gov.za
198
POST 20/270 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGISTS (CIVIL) GRADE A REF NO:
H/O 06/2026 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R958 776 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mahikeng Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Experience National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of
Technology in Civil Engineering (B Tech). Six (6) years post-qualification
technical experience in road infrastructure required. Professional registration
with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional
Engineering Technologist is compulsory. A valid driver’s license, willing to travel
extensively. Knowledge: Relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations.
Knowledge of SLAs. Management information knowledge. Engineering
Professional Act. National Land Transport Act. Extensive knowledge of TMH
and TRH Manuals and other industry-specific manuals. Technical design and
analysis knowledge. Research and development. Computer-aided engineering
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Technical consulting. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. General
Conditions of Contract, knowledge of construction regulations. Skills: Project
management. Technical design and analysis knowledge. Research and
development. Computer-aided engineering applications. Legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Technical consulting. Networking. Professional
judgment. Skills needed: Decision-making. Team leadership. Creativity;
Change management. Financial management; Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication (written and verbal). Computer skills.
Planning and organising. People management. Problem-solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Manage technical services and support in conjunction with Engineers,
Technicians and associates in field, workshop and technical office activities.
Ensure the adherence and promotion of safety in line with statutory and
regulatory requirements. Evaluate and monitor existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure
quality assurance of technical designs with specifications and authorize/make
recommendations for approval by the relevant authority. Manage road building
material functions including laboratory services. Ensure the development,
implementation and maintenance databases. Assess pavements and
prioritizing rehabilitation and reseal projects. Manage the implementation of
road infrastructure projects through six stages of ECSA. Identify and optimize
technical solutions by applying engineering principles. Continuous
professional development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
Research/literature studies on technical engineering technology to improve
expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on engineering-related matters.
Provide inputs into the budgeting process. Compile and submit reports as
required. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical/engineering
operational plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Mhlambe Tel No: (018) 388 1193
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit5@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/271 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE MANAGEMENT REF NO: BOJ 02/2026
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Bojanala District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma
(NQF-6)/ Bachelor’s Degree (NQF-7) in Human Resource Management/ Public
Management/ Public Administration/ Industrial Psychology. Experience:
Minimum of 3-5 years relevant experience, of which 3 years should be at
Assistant Director Level. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Knowledge of
Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, Public Financial Management
Act, Employment Equity Act, Knowledge of Human Resource Management,
HR policies and prescripts, Knowledge and understanding of Public Service
Policies. Knowledge of PERSAL system. Skills: Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint), Analytical thinking, Conflict resolution, Effective
communication skills (Verbal and written), Interpretation skill, Report writing
skill, Good planning and organising skills, Data Collection Skills, People
Management, Project Management, Presentation and facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Determine and satisfy the districts human resource needs and ensure
representatively within the workplace. Manage recruitment processes and
service benefits. Manage performance management. Manage skills
199
development. Manage labour relations matters. Promote and maintain
employee health and wellness programmes. Provide information management
and technological services. Oversee records management. Compile monthly,
quarterly and annual reports. Manage the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K.R Morena at (087) 086 5944
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRBOJANALARecruit@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/272 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND CO-ORDINATION
OFFICER REF NO: H/O 13/2026 (X1 POST)
Jop Purpose: Manage the administrative and coordination activities within the
office of the executive authority.
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate Degree or
equivalent qualification at NQF level 6. A valid driver’s license. Experience:
Three (3) years’ experience below middle management (Assistant Director)/
middle management level. Experience in rendering service in the Executive
Authority’s Office environment will be an added advantage. Knowledge: Broad
knowledge and understanding of the functional areas covered by the executive
authority’s portfolio. Proven management competencies. Working knowledge
of the political and parliamentary processes in South Africa. Knowledge of
Public Service Regulations. Skills: Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint), Problem Solving, Analytical skills, Good Communication skills
(written and verbal), Interpersonal Skills, Presentation Skills, Report Writing
skills, Conflict resolution skills. Good planning and organizing skills. Ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Manage the administrative and coordination activities within the office of the
executive authority. Develop, implement and maintain systems, registers and
databases to monitor and manage the flow of documents to, from and within
the office of the executive authority. Compile correspondence, submissions
and cabinet memoranda as required. Provide comments on submissions to be
submitted to the executive authority for consideration. Coordinate the
procurement and maintenance of equipment and administer the budget in the
office of the executive authority. Provide logistical support in the office of the
executive authority. Develop, implement and maintain a filing system for the
office of the executive authority. Manage the registry of the office of the
executive authority. Ensure that documents are classified in accordance with
the MIS prescripts and are handled in accordance with their classification.
Liaise with internal and external role players with regard to matters relating to
the portfolio of the executive authority. Brief the Director: MEC Support on
matters with regard to the executive authority’s portfolio on the agenda of
Cabinet/executive council. Liaise with senior managers in the institutions within
the executive authority’s portfolio. Co-ordinate the activities of the executive
authority’s office. Render a Cabinet/executive council support service to the
executive authority. Coordinate and facilitate the distribution of memoranda to
Cabinet/executive council members. Coordinate and facilitate the distribution
of documents and submissions to the relevant legislature and
standing/portfolio committees. Keep record of decisions of Cabinet/executive
council and alert the Director: MEC Support and executive authority of actions
to be taken and due dates. Supervise employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A. Motsurupe Tel No: (018) 388 1428/1471
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit1@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/273 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT AND
INFRASTRUCTURE PROCUREMENT REF NO: H/O 14/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Mahikeng Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Senior National Certificate plus a National Diploma (NQF-6) /
Bachelor’s Degree (NQF-7) in Supply Chain Management or relevant
qualification within the related field (Majoring in Accounting) as recognized by
SAQA. A valid driver’s license, willing to travel extensively. Experience: A
minimum of 3-5 years’ experience in Supply Chain Management
(procurement/bid administration) relevant field of which three (3) years should
be at an entry/ junior managerial level as Assistant Director or equivalent.
Knowledge: A thorough and in-depth knowledge of Supply Chain Management
200
Framework. Sound Knowledge and understanding of the regulatory framework
for the Public Service or Public Sector, Knowledge of acquisition management
services, PFMA, Treasury Practice Notes, Treasury Regulations, Constitution
of Bid Committee, CIDB regulations, Contract in Terms of BBBEE Regulations,
Government Procurement Systems, Policy Development, Risk Management,
Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Skills Development Act, Service Delivery
Frameworks, Policies and strategies. Ability to interpret, establish, manage
acquisition systems, controls and apply policies, advanced knowledge and
application of general management and project management principles.
Knowledge of the Constitution of South Africa, Public Service Code of Conduct.
Skill: Computer literacy, Communication (verbal, writing and other),
organizational and stakeholder management skills, Leadership skills, Peoples’
management skills, Strong analytical and problem-solving abilities, integrity,
innovative and creativity, fairness and commitment to transparent processes.,
Ability to work under pressure. Ability to manage multiple priorities under tight
deadlines. Management of procurement plan i.r.o Infrastructure Projects.
DUTIES : Manage bid administration: Coordinate and administer all stages of the bid
process, from advertisement to award. Ensure bid documentation is complete,
accurate, and compliant with relevant legislation and the Departmental policies.
Ensure that an effective bid/quotation process is implemented and maintained.
Ensure that the bid committees are functional. Ensure that all acquisitions are
evaluated in terms of the pre-approved and published evaluation criteria.
Ensure that all a complete and accurate supplier database is developed and
effectively utillised. Maintain a central repository of bid records for audit and
reporting purposes. Compliance and Governance: Interpret and apply
procurement regulations, including PFMA, Treasury Guidelines, and CIDB
requirements. Monitor adherence to internal governance frameworks and
escalate risks and irregularities. Draft rejection clauses, compliance briefings,
and committee directives. Stakeholder Coordination: Serve as the primary
liaison between management, bid committees, user-directorates and service
suppliers. Schedule and facilitate bid committee meetings, ensuring proper
documentation of proceedings. Provide guidance to bid committee members
on compliance and procedural requirements. Documentation and Reporting:
Coordinate all committee procedures (through SCM practitioners and
secretariats of the different committees). Ensure the appointment of
departmental bid committee members. Ensure that all bid committees
documentation (i.e. bid agendas, reports, minutes, and recommendations for
approval), are properly prepared and followed through by the bid secretariat
appointed for each committee. Develop and implement templates, checklists,
and reference sheets to streamline committee workflows. Track bid outcomes
and provide periodic performance reports to management. Manage the sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O.O.O Sebitloane Tel No: (018) 388 1425
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit2@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/274 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGN AND CHANGE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: H/O 15/2026 (X1 POST)
Re-Advert
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma
(NQF-6) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF-7) in Management Services/ Operations
Management/ Production Management/ Organizational Development/
Industrial Engineering. A valid driver’s license. Experience: Minimum 3-5 years’
relevant experience of which 3 years should be at Assistant Director Level.
Knowledge: Knowledge of Public Service Regulation. Public Service Act.
PFMA. Knowledge of Human Resource Management. HR policies and
prescripts. Knowledge of Job Design practices and Job Evaluation principles.
Job description development and guide. Change Management. Conflict
Management. Financial Management. Business Process Management.
Knowledge of PERSAL system. Orgplus and Operations Management
Framework. Policy development. Skills: Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint). Analytical thinking. Conflict resolution. Effective communication
skills (verbal and written). Interpretation and Interpersonal skills. Report writing
skills. Good planning and organising skills. Data Collection. Problem-solving
201
skills. People Management. Financial Management. Project management
skills. Presentation and facilitation skills. Change management.
DUTIES : Manage organizational design and change management services. Manage
and coordinate organizational structuring and job design services. Manage and
coordinate the development and design of job descriptions/ profiles and
oversee Job Evaluation services. Manage and ensure the development of
Standard Operating Procedures and Business Process Mapping. Manage the
implementation of Organizational Functionality Assessment. Manage and
ensure the implementation of Ministerial directives on job grading. Coordinate
and ensure conducting of work study investigations. Engage on change
management workshops and interventions with employees. Manage the sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N.V. Matlapeng Tel No: (018) 388 4453/4287
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit1@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/275 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER - GRADE A REF NO: H/O 07/2026
(X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R914 517 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mahikeng Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Experience: National Senior Certificate plus National
Diploma / Bachelors in Civil Engineering or equivalent qualification in the built
environment. Four (4) years post-qualification project management experience
in construction required, preferably with experience in road construction.
Professional registration with the South African Council for Project and
Construction Management Professions (SACPCMP) as a Professional
Construction Project Manager is compulsory. A valid driver’s license, willing to
travel extensively. Knowledge: Knowledge of Programme and project
management. Project principles and methodologies. Research and
development. Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating a high-performance culture.
Technical consulting. Professional judgment. Skills: Decision-making. Team
leadership. Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-management. Financial
Management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
Computer literacy. Planning and organising. Conflict management. Problem-
solving and analysis. People management. Change management. Innovation.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate all aspects of projects. Guide the project planning,
implementation, monitoring, reporting and evaluation in line with project
management methodology. Create and execute project work plans and revise
as appropriate to meet changing needs and requirements. Project accounting
and financial management. Report project progress to Chief Construction
Project Manager. Manage project budget and resources. Provide inputs to
other professionals with tender administration. Liaise and interact with service
providers, clients, and management. Research and development. Keep up with
new technologies and procedures. Research/literature on new developments
on project management methodologies. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
project management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Mhlambe Tel No: (018) 388 1193
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit5@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/276 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER GRADE A-INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REF NO: H/O 08/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R914 517 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Experience: National Senior Certificate plus National
Diploma (Built Environment field) with a minimum of 4 years and six months
certified experience. BTech (Built Environment field) with a minimum of 4 years
certified managerial experience. Honours degree in any Built Environment field
with a minimum of 3 years’ experience. Compulsory registration with the
SACPCMP as a Professional Construction Project Manager. A Valid driver’s
license. Knowledge: Knowledge of Programme and project management.
Project principles and methodologies. Research and development. Computer-
aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical
report writing. Creating a high-performance culture. Technical consulting.
Professional judgment. Skills: Decision-making. Team leadership. Analytical
skills. Creativity. Self-management. Financial Management. Customer focus
202
and responsiveness. Communication. Advanced computer skills and
proficiency. Planning and organising. Conflict management. Problem-solving
and analysis. People management. Change management. Innovation.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate all aspects of projects. Guide the project planning,
implementation, monitoring, reporting and evaluation in line with project
management methodology. Create and execute project work plans and revise
as appropriate to meet changing needs and requirements. Project accounting
and financial management. Report project progress to Chief Construction
Project Manager. Manage project budget and resources. Provide inputs to
other professionals with tender administration. Provide technical support and
advise to the relevant unit. Liaise and interact with service providers, client and
management. Research and development. Keep up with new technologies and
procedures. Research/literature on new developments on project management
methodologies. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on project management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B.P Kgokong Tel No: (018) 388 1253
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit6@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/277 : GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SCIENCES (GISC) PROFESSIONAL-
GRADE A REF NO: H/O 09/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mahikeng Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Experience National Senior Certificate plus Bachelors’
Degree in Geographic Information Systems or related qualification. Three (3)
years post qualification experience within a Geographic Information Systems
environment. Compulsory registration with the Professional and Technical
Surveyors (PLATO) or South African Geomatics Council (SAGC) as a
Geomatics Professional. A valid driver’s license, willing to travel extensively.
Knowledge: Strong experience with two or more GIS platforms (ArcGIS
platform, QGIS, ERDAS etc.) Must have knowledge of technical and strategic
report writing and understanding of legal compliance. Experience in Geo-
Database design and Enterprise GIS Administration. Experience in Spatial and
statistical analysis and development of information products like analytics
dashboards, story maps etc. Experience in administration, licensing and
application development on ArcGIS online and ArGIS Portal. A good
understanding of government priorities and knowledge of the South African
political landscape and socio-economic environment in which public service
delivery occurs. Sound knowledge of the Government Immovable Asset
Management Act (GIAMA) and other related legislation. GIS, legal and
operational Compliance. GIS Implementation. Standards development. Policy
formulation. GIS operational communication. Knowledge and understanding of
GIS application and spatial data. Skills: Strategic management and direction.
Problem-solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical
skills. Creativity. Self-management. Financial management. Customer focus
and responsiveness. Communication and listening skills. Computer skills.
Delegation and development of others. Process knowledge and skills.
Maintenance skills and knowledge. Mobile equipment operating skills. Systems
skills.
DUTIES : Plan, coordinate and facilitate GISc projects activities. Undertake the system
requirements analysis. Conduct the cost-benefit analysis. Develop the
conceptual database design. Develop processing model and workflow
diagram. Oversee the process of advance spatial analysis and modelling for
institutional strategic. Research, identify, investigate and evaluate new
technologies. Participate and liaise with relevant bodies and councils on GISc
matters. Manage human resource requirements. Draft tender documents and
terms of reference. Draft service level agreements. Determine project cost and
quality level. Develop contingency plans. Adhere to financial legislations and
regulations. Review and monitor budget to ensure that the required financial
procedures are adhered to.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S. Ntlatleng Tel No: (018) 388 1439
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit5@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/278 : CONTROL WORKS INSPECTOR REF NO: BOJ 03/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Rustenburg Services Point
203
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma
(T/N/S Streams) or N3 and a passed Trade Test in the building environment or
registration as an Engineering Technician. Experience: More than 6 years
appropriate experience. A valid driver license. Knowledge: Knowledge of the
Public Service Act. Public Service Regulation. Labour Relation Act. Public
Finance Management Act. Occupational Health and Safety Act. Construction
Manual. Ribbon Development Act. Skills: Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint). Numeracy skills. Effective communication skills (Verbal and
written). Interpersonal relations. Analytical and problem-solving abilities.
Negotiation and conflict resolution skill. Creative and innovative. Report writing
skills. Presentation skills. Ability to work independently. Ability to work under
pressure. Ability to interact with stakeholders on various levels.
DUTIES : Manage the process for identification of needs, new services and requirements
for minor new work and repairs to existing work. Facilitate, co-ordinate and
control the implementation of new works, repair and renovations and
maintenance. Ensure compliance with relevant project documentation for new
and existing structures. Manage activities of contractors and consultants.
Gather and submit information in terms of extended public works programme.
Ensure compliance to Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Manage
activities of contractors and consultants. Manage the service point.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K.R Morena at (087) 086 5944
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRBOJANALARecruit@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/279 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: H/O 16/2026 (X1
POST)
Re-advert
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mahikeng Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor’s Degree (NQF-7)/
National Diploma (NQF-6) in Labour Relations/ Labour Law/ Industrial
Relations. A valid driver’s license. Experience: At least 2 to 3 years relevant
work experience in the field of Labour Relations, of which 2 years must be
Supervisory level. Competencies: Knowledge of Labour legislations/acts,
Public Service policies, regulations and collective bargaining agreements.
Ability to work under pressure. The ability to develop and interpret policies.
Skills: Computer literacy in the Microsoft packages. Research, conflict
resolution skills, interpersonal skills, communication (verbal and report writing),
analytic investigation, presentation skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate grievance resolutions. Investigate, conduct disciplinary hearings and
serve as a chairperson for misconduct cases. Conduct labour relations
capacity building within the department. Compile various Labour Relations
reports. Represent the Department in relevant structures. Advice management
on Labour Relations issues. Strike management. Manage the performance of
personnel within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G.M Matlhaba Tel No: (018) 388 4315
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit1@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/280 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO: H/O
17/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma / Bachelor’s
degree in Public Administration / Public Management / Monitoring and
Evaluation. A valid driver’s license. Experience: 3 years' relevant experience in
performance monitoring, reporting or programme performance management of
which 2 years must be at supervisory level. Experience in coordinating
quarterly and annual reporting processes and conducting data quality
assessments (verification) will be an added advantage. Knowledge:
Knowledge of the monitoring and evaluation framework and processes within
the public service. Government Wide Monitoring and Evaluation System
(GWMES). Knowledge of revised Framework for Strategic Plans and Annual
Performance Plans. Framework for Managing Programme Performance
Information (FMPPI). Public Sector Reporting Frameworks. Understanding of
performance information concepts such as indicator development, target
setting, baselines, measurement tools, data sources, and verification methods.
204
Knowledge of performance planning and reporting cycles: APP, Operational
Plans, and Quarterly Performance Reports (QPR), Annual Reports, and
oversight reporting. Knowledge of relevant legislative and policy frameworks
including the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, PFMA and
Treasury Regulations. Understanding of budgeting processes and alignment
between budgets, operational plans, and performance targets. Skills:
Competence in data analysis, problem-solving, and verification of performance
information. Strong communication skills (written and verbal), ability to work
collaboratively, interpersonal relations, attention to detail, and ability to meet
deadlines. Proficiency in MS Office (Excel, Word, PowerPoint) and
performance information tracking systems.
DUTIES : Facilitate, coordinate, and oversee the departmental monitoring and reporting
processes by ensuring compliance with DPME and Provincial Treasury
guidelines. Coordinate the consolidation, quality assurance, and verification of
Quarterly Performance Reports (QPRs) from all departmental programmes.
Provide inputs in respect of the development, review, and alignment of Annual
Performance Plan (APP) indicators, targets, and Technical Indicator
Descriptions (TIDs). Provide technical support to business units on
performance information management, data collection tools, and indicator
measurement methodologies. Conduct data quality assessments, verification
of portfolio of evidence, and compliance reviews in time with the FMPPI.
Analyse programme performance trends and prepare reports with
recommendations for management decision-making. Prepare consolidated
Mid-year Performance Assessments and support the drafting of the Annual
Report performance information section. Coordinate departmental
submissions to oversight structures (Office of the Premier, Provincial Treasury,
EXCO clusters, M&E forums). Facilitate capacity-building initiatives on
monitoring, reporting, and performance information management. Supervise
sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H. Pretorius Tel No: (018) 388 1366/1254
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit6@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/281 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: H/O 18/2026
(X1 POST)
Re-advert
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma / Bachelor’s
degree in Public Administration / Public Management / Strategic Planning. A
valid driver’s license. Experience: 3 years' relevant experience in the strategic
planning of which 2 years must be at supervisory level. Knowledge: Knowledge
of the planning cycle and planning processes within the public sector.
Framework for the development of strategic planning documents and reporting
on implementation. General knowledge of budgeting process within the public
service. Knowledge of guiding legislative and policy frameworks such as the
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Finance Management
Act, White Paper on Batho Pele and the Revised Framework for Strategic
Plans and Annual Performance Plans, national strategic priority frameworks.
Skills: Strong communication skills (written and verbal), ability to work
collaboratively, ability to be flexible and responsive to the demands of the work
environment, interpersonal relations, attention to detail, and ability to meet
deadlines. Proficiency in MS Office (Excel, Word, PowerPoint) and
performance information tracking systems.
DUTIES : Facilitate and coordinate operational and strategic planning processes.
Facilitate the development of departmental strategic plan, annual performance
plan and operational plans. Verify alignment of the budget with strategic plans.
Incorporate the departmental service delivery improvement plan into the
strategic plan of the department. Facilitate logistical arrangements in relation
to the printing and binding of departmental strategic plans. Facilitate the
development of the service delivery improvement plans and initiatives.
Coordinate the development of service delivery improvement plan and monitor
implementation of the service delivery improvement plan. Supervise sub-
ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H. Pretorius Tel No: (018) 388 1366/1254
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit6@nwpg.gov.za
205
POST 20/282 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: H/O 20/2026 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma
/ Bachelor’s Degree in Risk Management / Internal Audit / Accounting /
Economics / Compliance Management. A valid driver’s license. Experience: 3
years relevant experience in Risk Management of which 2 years should be at
supervisory level. Knowledge: Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Public Finance Management Act, Public Sector Risk Management Framework.
COSO Framework. King Report on Corporate Governance. Treasury
Regulations. Anti-fraud and corruption policies. Criminal and Commercial Law.
Labour Relations legislation, policies, and procedures. Skills: Analytical and
strategic management skills. Financial management. Facilitation and
presentation. Investigation and interviewing. People management. Computer
literacy. Time management. Communication (written and verbal). Interpersonal
skills. Planning and organizing. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Develop, revise & implement risk management policies, frameworks,
strategies, and procedures. Monitor organizational risk management, ethics
and integrity management implementation plans. Facilitate and coordinate risk
assessments (strategic, operational, project) across divisions. Maintain risk
registers. Monitor emerging risks and update registers regularly. Develop and
implement mitigation/treatment plans. Track progress of risk mitigation plans
and review controls’ effectiveness. Conduct fraud investigation, corruption or
compliance failures. Facilitate capacity building sessions to departmental staff
on organizational risk and integrity management policies, processes and
procedures. Prepare periodic risk reports (quarterly, annually etc.) to senior
management and/or risk committees. Present findings, risk trends,
recommendations, and advise on risk exposure. Develop, test and review
business continuity plans. Liaise with internal departments, external auditors
and regulatory bodies. Render secretariat services for Risk Management
Committee. Supervise staff, ensure skills development and performance
management. Willingness to travel as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K. Masilo Tel No: (018) 388 1116
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit2@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/283 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL AND FRAUD-LOSSES REF
NO: H/O 21/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma
/ Bachelor’s degree in Internal Audit / Cost and Management Accounting /
Accounting / Managerial Accounting and Finance Management / Accounting
Science and Finance Accounting. A valid driver’s license. Experience: 3 years
relevant experience in an Internal Control or Internal Audit environment of
which 2 years must be at supervisory level. Knowledge: In-depth
understanding and knowledge of the Public Service regulations. Government
Systems and Operations. PFMA, Treasury Regulations. Departmental SCM
policies and regulations. Skills: Strong interpersonal & communication (written
& verbal). A sound computer literacy in Advanced Microsoft Word, Excel and
PowerPoint, Presentation and Report writing. Analytical and problem solving.
Good organizing and planning. Conflict Management. Policy interpretation.
Client orientated and customer focused. Ability to work independently and
under pressure. Decision-making and maintain confidentiality.
DUTIES : Develop and implement internal control frameworks. Conduct internal control
assessments and monitor external audit action plans. Ensure compliance with
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, and internal control standards. Lead
implementation and oversight of internal control policies, SOPs, and
delegations of authority. Ensure compliance with policies and procedures.
Compile monthly, quarterly and annual reports. Supervise subordinates and
conduct training, to ensure effective internal control services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G. Molefi Tel No: (018) 388 1170
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit2@nwpg.gov.za
206
POST 20/284 : LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER REF NO: H/O 24/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R483 219 per annum (MR-5)
CENTRE : Mahikeng-Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor’s Degree in LLB. A
valid driver’s license. Experience: At least 8 years’ appropriate post
qualification legal experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of the process of
litigation including labour forums. Knowledge of case flow management.
Drafting of legal documents. Knowledge of legislative framework of the Public
Sector. Skills: Legal research. Analytical skills. Legal drafting. Decision making.
Dispute resolution. Report writing. Computer skills. Conflict resolution. Problem
solving. Communication (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Conduct, analyse, interpret, advise and mentor juniors on research that will
provide information and case law relevant to the legal matter at hand. Present
on and advise and mentor juniors on motivation/ proposals on how the specific
case should be approached to obtain a desirable/justifiable outcome /result.
Draft legal documents and advise on and or mentor juniors on the drafting of
legal documents that provide clear motivation /justification for a particular
position pertaining to the case, also proposing the approach to be followed to
ensure success in this regard. Successfully conduct an interview in order to
determine the client’s goals and objectives. Advise the client on possible
courses of action during the consultation process, in relation to legal
entitlements and client’s instructions. Document interview and all advice given
during legal consultation in writing. Provide advice and guidance to lower level
production employees on advanced interview techniques to address more
sensitive or complicated issues as well as guide employees on the advice that
should be rendered to the client. Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr I.R Mokwena Tel No: (018) 388 4148
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit6@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/285 : ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST (CIVIL) - GRADE A REF NO: H/O 10/2026
(X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R471 720 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mahikeng Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Experience: National Senior Certificate plus Bachelor of
Technology in Civil Engineering (B Tech). Three (3) years post qualification
engineering experience in road infrastructure required. Professional
registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a
Professional Engineering Technologist is compulsory or have submitted with
ECSA for professional registration as a Professional Engineering Technologist
(proof of submission required with application). Note: Compulsory registration
with ECSA as a Professional Engineering Technologist must be obtained within
6 months from appointment. A valid driver’s license, willing to travel extensively.
Knowledge: Relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations. Engineering
Professional Act. National Land Transport Act. Knowledge of COTO, TMH and
TRH Manuals and other industry specific manuals. Technical design and
analysis knowledge. Research and development. Computer-aided engineering
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Technical consulting. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. General
Conditions of Contract, knowledge of construction regulations. Skills:
Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power Point). Problem solving and
analysis. Project management. Decision making. Teamwork. Effective
communication skills (Verbal and written). Interpersonal skills. Presentation
skills. Technical Report writing skills. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Assist Engineers, Technicians and associates in field and technical office
activities. Promote safety in line with statutory and regulatory requirements.
Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to
incorporate new technology. Solve broadly defined technological challenges
through application of proven techniques and procedures. Adherence to
existing technical manuals, standards drawings and procedures to incorporate
new technology. Compile and submit reports as required. Provide inputs to the
technical/engineering operational plan. Develop, implement and maintain
database. Manage the implementation of road infrastructure projects through
six stages of ECSA. Research/Literature studies on technical engineering
technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
engineering-related matters.
207
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S. Ntlatleng Tel No: (018) 388 1439
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit5@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/286 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: RESEARCH AND KNOWLEDGE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: H/O 19/2026 (X1 POST)
Re-advert
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma / Bachelor’s
degree in Public Administration / Public Management / Developmental Studies
/ Research / Statistics. A valid driver’s license. Experience: 2 years' working
experience in research, knowledge management, data management or a
related/ complementary field in the public sector. Knowledge: Basic knowledge
and understanding of the Government-Wide Monitoring and Evaluation System
(GWMES) and the National Evaluation System (NES) led by DPME.
Understanding of knowledge management principles, research processes,
evidence-based decision making and organisational learning systems.
Knowledge of planning, reporting and performance improvement cycles,
including how evaluation findings feed into APPS, Operational Plans and
service delivery improvement processes. General knowledge of the budgeting
process within the public service, including evaluation budgeting and
procurement. General understanding of guiding frameworks such as the Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, PFMA, Treasury Regulations and
DPME evaluation guidelines. Skills: Strong analytical skills, problem-solving
capability, interpersonal relations, teamwork (collaborative approach),
communication skills, adaptability and responsiveness to organisational
demands. Competence in software used for data and knowledge management.
DUTIES : Provide administrative and logistical support to the Research and Knowledge
Management Unit, including scheduling meetings, preparing agendas, taking
minutes and coordinating evaluation workshops. Participate during the
coordination of evaluation activities, including organising data collection
logistics, stakeholder engagements and dissemination events. Support the
development and maintenance of the Knowledge Management System,
including filing, archiving and updating knowledge products. Compile
evaluation and progress reports. Provide inputs for monitoring the
implementation of evaluation recommendations and capture follow-up actions
for reporting purposes. Ensure proper document control, including safe
storage, version control and retrieval of evaluation documents, research
reports and data. Perform general office administration duties such as
procurement coordination, record keeping, managing correspondence and
handling logistics for evaluation activities. Render support to supervisors and
senior managers in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. H. Pretorius Tel No: (018) 388 1366/1254
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit6@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/287 : SENIOR RISK PRACTITIONER: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: H/O
22/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma
/ Bachelor’s Degree in Risk Management / Internal Audit / Accounting /
Economics / Compliance Management. A valid driver’s license. Experience: 2
years relevant experience in Risk Management. Knowledge: Public Service
Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Treasury Regulations. Risk Management Frameworks. Internal Control
Systems. Financial Reporting Standards. Skills: Analytical and problem-solving
skills. Communication (verbal and written). Interpersonal skills. Computer
Literacy (Advanced MS Office). Report writing and presentation skills. Ability to
work independently and as part of a team. Planning and organizing skills. Client
orientation and customer focus. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Lead the identification and evaluation of financial and operational risks across
the department. Develop and maintain comprehensive risk registers and risk
response plans ensuring they are regularly updated and aligned with
departmental objectives. Design and implement effective risk mitigation
strategies and internal controls. Develop and implement Risk Management
208
strategy, framework and policy. Monitor the effectiveness of these strategies
and controls. Address emerging risks. Prepare detailed risk reports for senior
management and relevant committees. Maintain accurate records of risk
assessments, mitigation strategies, and outcomes. Develop and deliver
training programs to enhance risk awareness and management capabilities
within the department. Provide guidance and support to staff on risk-related
matters. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders to promote risk-
awareness culture. Represent the department in risk management forums and
committees. Regularly review and improve risk management processes and
practices. Implement best practices and lessons learned to enhance the
department's risk management framework. Coordinate and facilitate the
activities of the Risk Management Committee and perform the secretarial
function. Willingness to travel as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K. Masilo Tel No: (018) 388 1116
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit2@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/288 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: COMPLIANCE IN INTERNAL CONTROL
REF NO: H/O 23/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma
/ Bachelor’s degree in Internal Audit / Cost and Management Accounting /
Financial Accounting / Managerial Accounting and Finance Management /
Accounting Science and Finance Accounting/ Accounting. A valid driver’s
license. Experience: 2 years relevant experience in Internal Control or
Financial Management environment. Knowledge: In-depth understanding and
knowledge of the Public Service regulations. Government Systems and
Operations. PFMA, Treasury Regulations. Departmental SCM policies and
regulations. Skills: Strong interpersonal and communication skills (written &
verbal). A sound computer literacy in Advanced Microsoft Word, Excel and
PowerPoint, Presentation and Report writing. Proficient in planning and
organizing. Problem solving. Policy interpretation. Maintain confidentiality.
Ability to work independently and under pressure.
DUTIES : Detect and investigate internal control weaknesses including irregular
expenditure and report findings with recommendations. Assess internal control
failings and support corrective. Maintain statistics on internal control incidents
and prepare accurate reports. Handle internal control unit’s day-to-day queries
to ensure timely and accurate resolutions. Provide inputs in the compilation of
monthly, quarterly and annual reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G. Molefi Tel No: (018) 388 1170
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit2@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/289 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER-OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND
SAFETY REF NO: H/O 25/2026 (X1 POST)
Re-advert
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National
Diploma/ Bachelor’s Degree in Occupational Health and Safety / Safety
Management / Industrial Sociology / Occupational Hygiene. Registration with
the South African Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (SAIOSH) or
Southern African Institute for Occupational Hygiene (SAIOH). A valid driver’s
license. Experience: Minimum 2-3 years relevant experience in Occupational
Health and Safety environment. Knowledge: Occupational Health and Safety
Act, 85 of 1993. Compensation of Injuries and Diseases Act, 130 of 1993.
Incident investigation. Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment.
Understanding of government legislation. Emergency evacuation. Skills:
Computer literacy in MS Word, Power Point and Excel. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Report writing. Ability to work independently and as part
of a team. Willingness to work long hours and travel extensively. Policy
implementation. Flexibility.
DUTIES : Coordinate Occupational Health and Safety Act and its regulations. Develop
and implement OHS policies. Ensure that the department complies with OHS
regulations and standards. Assess and monitor the effectiveness of safety
programs in the department. Facilitate health and safety awareness for
209
employees in the department. Investigate and report all incidents and accidents
that occur in the workplace. Arrange medical surveillance for all eligible
employees. Conduct health and safety inspections and audits and make
recommendations. Coordinate health and safety training of personnel.
Coordinate statutory appointments in the department. Coordinate provincial
OHS Committee meetings. Compile monthly, quarterly and annual OHS
reports. Liaise with internal and external stakeholders on OHS matters.
Develop and implement emergency evacuation plans, facilitate emergency
evacuation drills and ensure maintenance of emergency evacuation
equipment. Supervise sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K. Mosiemang Tel No: (018) 388 4320
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit1@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/290 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (CIVIL) - GRADE A REF NO: H/O 11/2026 (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R407 337 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mahikeng Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Experience: Qualifications and Experience: National Senior
Certificate plus a National Diploma in Civil Engineering. Three (3) years post
qualification technical experience in road infrastructure required. Compulsory
registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineering Technician or have
submitted with ECSA for professional registration as a Professional
Engineering Technician (proof of submission required with application). Note:
Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineering Technician
must be obtained within 6 months from appointment. A valid driver’s license,
willing to travel extensively. Knowledge: All roads-related acts, ordinances,
policies, standards and norms. Project management. Technical design and
analysis. Contract Management. Public Service Regulations. Labour Relations
Act. Public Finance Management Act. Construction Manual. Road Traffic Act.
Occupational Health and Safety. Skills: Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel,
Power Point). Problem solving and analysis. Project management. Decision
making. Teamwork. Effective communication skills (Verbal and written).
Interpersonal skills. Presentation skills. Technical Report writing skills. Ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in field and technical office
activities. Promote safety in line with statutory and regulatory requirements.
Adherence to existing technical manuals, standards drawings and procedures
to incorporate new technology. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide inputs to the technical/engineering operational plan. Develop,
implement and maintain database. Manage the implementation of road
infrastructure projects through six stages of ECSA. Research/Literature studies
on technical engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering-related matters. Supervise and control
technical and related personnel and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Mhlambe Tel No: (018) 388 1193
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit5@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/291 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A-INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION REF NO: H/O 12/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R407 337 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office – Mafikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Experience: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate
National Diploma in Civil Engineering/ Quantity Surveyor or relevant
qualification in built environment. Three years post qualification technical
experience. Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineering
Technician. Valid driver`s license. Knowledge. Knowledge: Project
Management. Technical design and analysis. Research and development.
Computer aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical consulting. Skills: Problem solving and analysis. Decision Making.
Team Work. Creativity. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication.
People Management. Computer Skills. Planning and organizing. Technical
report writing skills.
DUTIES : Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in field, workshop and
technical office activities. Promote safety in line with statuary and regulatory
requirements. Monitor construction and maintenance activities to ensure
210
compliance with specification and standard. Provide inputs into the budgeting
process as required. Compile and submit reports as required. Provide and
consolidate inputs to the technical/ engineering operational plan. Develop,
implement and maintain databases. Supervise and control technical and
related personnel and assets. Continuous professional development to keep
up with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature studies on
technical engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering related matter.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B.P Kgokong Tel No: (018) 388 1253
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit6@nwpg.gov.za
POST 20/292 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
REF NO: H/O 26/2026 (X1 POST)
Re-advert
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mahikeng Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate National Diploma
/ Bachelor’s Degree in Occupational Health and Safety / Safety Management /
Occupational Hygiene. Registration with the South African Institute of
Occupational Safety and Health (SAIOSH) or Southern African Institute for
Occupational Hygiene (SAIOH). A valid driver’s license. Experience: 1-2 years
relevant work experience in Occupational Health and Safety environment.
Knowledge: Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Public Service Act.
Occupational Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993. Compensation of Injuries and
Diseases Act, 130 of 1993. Incident investigation. Hazard Identification and
Risk Assessment. Understanding of government legislation. Emergency
evacuation. Skills: Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel, Power Point.
Communication skills (verbal and written). Report writing. Ability to work
independently and as part of a team. Willingness to work long hours and travel
extensively. Policy implementation. Flexibility.
DUTIES : Implement and monitor Occupational Health and Safety Act and its regulations.
Implement OHS policies. Maintain safety records. Conduct health and safety
awareness for employees. Investigate and report incidents and accidents that
occur in the workplace. Respond to health and safety concerns raised by
employees. Arrange medical surveillance for all eligible employees. Identify
hazards, conduct risk assessments and make recommendations. Measure and
evaluate level of exposure to identified hazards. Conduct safety inspections
and audits. Arrange OHS Committee meetings. Implement control measures
to minimize and eliminate risks. Compile monthly, quarterly and annual OHS
reports. Promote safety in the workplace. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders on OHS matters. Conduct emergency evacuation exercises.
Supervise sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K. Mosiemang Tel No: (018) 388 4320
APPLICATIONS : e-mail to: DPWRHORecruit1@nwpg.gov.za
211
ANNEXURE BB
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 06 July 2026
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/293 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND
REGULATORY SERVICES REF NO: AGR 26/2026
SALARY : R1 885 710 per annum (Level 15), all-inclusive salary package. Note: The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary (70%) and the employer’s
contribution to the Pension Fund.
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate 5-year (NQF 8) qualification within an Agricultural Science or
Public Administration environment; A minimum of 8 years appropriate senior
management experience; and the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme (see paragraph 4 in notes below).
Competencies: Excellent planning, organising, computer, presentation and
people management skills; Knowledge of applicable legislation; Strategic
capability, management and leadership skills; The ability to multitask, deal with
ambiguity, manage under rapidly changing and pressurised circumstances;
Financial management and negotiation skills; and Ability to communicate at all
levels and across sectors utilising various media.
DUTIES : Enhance and sustain the departmental strategic direction in line with the
strategic vision, budget and management plans, of both the Department and
the Western Cape Government; Oversee strategic line function management
regarding: (i) Veterinary services pertaining, to animal health, food safety,
export control, laboratory services, (ii) Research and development of
agricultural technology, (iii) Agricultural economic research and client support;
Evaluate and interpret impact of provincial, national and environmental
212
variables; Advise top management and executing authority on impact of
strategic changes; Ensure compliance with Public Service statutory
frameworks, regulations and professional ethics applicable to programmes in
the Branch; Maintain good relations with industrial role-players, academic
institutions and other relevant bodies in the Agricultural environment; Promote
Agricultural research and regulatory services across all spheres of
government; Explore and implement new ways of service delivery innovations;
and People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr MP Sebopetsa Tel No: (021) 808 5006
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
POST 20/294 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: AGR 27/2026
SALARY : R1 885 710 per annum (Level 15), all-inclusive salary package. Note: The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary (70%) and the employer’s
contribution to the Pension Fund.
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate 5 year (NQF 8) qualification within an Agricultural Science or Public
Administration environment; A minimum of 8 years appropriate senior
management experience; and The successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme (see paragraph 4 in notes
below).Competencies: Excellent planning, organising, computer, presentation
and people management skills; Knowledge of applicable legislation; Strategic
capability, management and leadership skills; The ability to multitask, deal with
ambiguity, manage under rapidly changing and pressurised circumstances;
Financial management and negotiation skills; and Ability to communicate at all
levels and across sectors utilising various media.
DUTIES : Enhance and sustain the departmental strategic direction in line with the
strategic vision, budget and management plans, of both the Department and
the Western Cape Government; Oversee strategic line function management;
Financial Management; People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr MP Sebopetsa Tel No: (021) 808 5006
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 06 July 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/295 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: CORPORATE SERVICES RELATIONS
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DEDAT 16/2026
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government.
213
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics; Understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service; Working procedures in
terms of the working environment; Skills needed: Good verbal and written
communication; Planning and organisation; Computer Literacy; Interpersonal
relations; Flexibility and Teamwork.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services to the Corporate Relations Unit;
Provide supply chain clerical support services within the component; Provide
personnel administration clerical support services within the component;
Provide financial administration support services in the component; Provide a
support service on OHS compliance for the department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Jacobs Tel No: (021) 483 9748.
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 06 July 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/296 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICE RELATIONS MANAGEMENT
REF NO: EADP 12/2026
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); a minimum of 3 years middle management level working
experience; a valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Business and organisational structure of the department; Departmental
operational management systems and procedures; Corporate governance
requirements, with particular reference to prescribed plans and committees;
The provincial policies, service level agreement and service schedules in terms
of which the working relationship with the Corporate Service Centre (CSC) is
managed. The business of the CSC; Occupational health and safety
legislation; Human rights issues pertinent to the Department; Human resources
management systems are at a supervisory level. Skills needed:
Communication (Written and verbal); Planning and organising; Basic research;
Computer literacy; problem-solving; Conceptual, interpretative and
formulation; analytical; networking; basic statistical and numerical. Ability to
work under pressure; Meet deadlines, managerial skills and project
management. Skills in the following: Numeracy; literacy; computer literacy;
language skills; accounting, finance and audit; project management; legal
administration; managerial skills; leadership skills; interpersonal skills;
communication skills (written and verbal); analytical skills; problem-solving;
214
decision-making; facilitation; presentation skills; conflict resolution; planning
and organising; basic research skills and networking skills.
DUTIES : Monitor, assess and report on the service delivery of the Corporate Service
Centre (CSC) to the Department in terms of the Corporate Service Centre
(CSC) service level agreement; Facilitate the periodic internal review of the
Corporate Services Centre-service level agreement to ensure that the
Department’s service delivery requirements are met; Coordinate departmental
operational service delivery obligations as required by the CSC service level
agreement, people management, and financial management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Gerber Tel No: (021) 483 2787
POST 20/297 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ENVIRONMENTAL LEGAL SUPPORT SERVICES
REF NO: EADP 12/2025 R1
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate LLB qualification; A minimum of 3 years post qualification
appropriate experience; A minimum of 3 years management level experience.
A valid (Code B or higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that
restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also
apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Environmental Legislation;
Principles of environment management; Constitution of RSA and the Western
Cape; Constitutional Law, administrative law, criminal procedure and law of
evidence; Human resource and financial management. Skills needed:
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc);
Communication skill (written and verbal); Interpretation of legislation; Ability to
work independently and as part of a team; Customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide and manage standard litigation support services; Provide and manage
standard functional and operational legal support and legislation; Scrutinise
and comment on national and provincial legislation which impacts on the
Department; Performance and information management and reporting;
Manage the operation of the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Adv G Birch Tel No: (021) 483 3113.
POST 20/298 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER: DEVELOPMENTAL
MANAGEMENT (REGION 1) REF NO: EADP 11/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R636 978 - R728 646 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year degree (or equivalent qualification) in environmental
management or natural or environmental science; registered as a candidate
environmental assessment practitioner (EAP) or registered as an EAP with the
Environmental Assessment Practitioners Association of South Africa
(EAPASA) or meets the requirements for registration and has either already
applied for registration or will by a certain date apply for registration
(appointment will be conditional to actual registration with EAPASA by a
specified date). A minimum of 6 years' relevant work experience; a valid (Code
B) driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: The integrated
environmental management process; Knowledge of EIA process applicable in
the Western Cape; Knowledge of post-decision requirements, for example,
amendment applications, ECO reports and Environmental Audit reports;
Biophysical environment, social environment, cultural and heritage
environment and the economic environment; The functioning of applicable
environmental legislation, National and Provincial policies; Methodologies and
techniques for the evaluation of Environmental Impact Assessments;
Methodologies and techniques for the evaluation of environmental
management plans, as well as environmental monitoring and auditing; Good
working knowledge of policies, environmental-related legislation and
environmental matters in the region; Functional knowledge on related
sectors/fields, e.g., mining, agriculture, water, industry, forward planning, town
and regional planning; and Public Service prescripts and HR related policies.
Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Programs (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint etc); Ability to work independently and as part of a team; Good
communication (written and verbal) skills in at least two of the three official
languages of the Western Cape; Problem Solving.
215
DUTIES : Experience in maintaining quality and productivity with regard to the evaluation
of applications in terms of the relevant environmental legislation; Experience
and knowledge of methodologies and techniques for evaluation of
environmental impact assessments, environmental management plans, as well
as environmental monitoring, ECO and auditing; Supervisory experience and
relevant knowledge of Integrated Environmental Management, including
applicable legislation and policies; Knowledge and experience of post-decision
requirements, for example, amendment applications, Environmental Audit
reports and ECO reports; Maintain quality and productivity with regard to
provision of comment on assigned non-applications; Leadership and relevant
knowledge of assigned projects; Strong report writing skills as well as the ability
to work with people and a team; Qualifications with respect to environmental
management, natural or environmental sciences or related field.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Z Toefy Tel No: (021) 483 2700
POST 20/299 : TOWN AND REGIONAL PLANNER (PRODUCTION LEVEL):
DEVELOPMENT PLANNING INTELLIGENCE MANAGEMENT AND
RESEARCH REF NO: EADP 13/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R660 612- R701 148 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade B: R761 157 - R816 852 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade C: R866 304 - R924 198 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, Western
Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-Degree in Urban/Town and Regional Planning or relevant
qualification; A minimum of 3 years post qualification town and regional
planning experience; Compulsory registration with SACPLAN as a
Professional Town and Regional Planner on appointment; A valid code B (or
higher) driving license. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Applied
knowledge of methods and approaches in development planning intelligence
management, innovation, technological advances (e.g. geospatial analysis and
science and geodatabase workflows, development planning data analytics, AI
development and application etc.); Project management and Research
methods inclusive of primary research in the Town/City and Regional Planning
and Development Planning; Knowledge of development planning, regional
planning, spatial planning and land use management systems, principles,
policies, and best practice; Knowledge of and application of transversal
integrated and coordinated planning approaches and support at Municipal,
National and other Western Cape Government organs of state with regard to
development planning intelligence management services.
DUTIES : Support to the Director: Development Planning Intelligence Management, Data
Analytics & Research Services with the provision of Development Planning
Intelligence Management and Research Services to all stakeholders in the
Western Cape. Support to the Director: Development Planning Intelligence
Management & Research with the provision of Land Use Planning & Data
Governance Policy Co-ordination services. Support to the Director
Development Planning Intelligence Management & Research with Project
Management. Support to the Chief Directorate: Development Planning through
the Director: Development Planning, Intelligence Management & Research
with the provision of development facilitation services, development
management services and spatial planning and land use management
services as and when required. Support the director: development planning,
intelligence management & research with strategic, operational and
administrative tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Jacobs Tel No: (021) 483 5167 and at 083 315 0137
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health and Wellness it is our intention with
this advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair
treatment in employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 29 June 2026, 17:00PM
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
216
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/300 : MANAGER: MEDICAL SERVICES GRADE 1
Garden Route District
SALARY : R1 479 723 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital and Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: A minimum of 3 years’
experience as Medical Officer after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness and skills to do after
hours work. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent communication skills on all levels. Strong
business orientation with proven skills and abilities in the clinical management
of a health service. Proven management competencies specific to a health-
care environment. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Internet
and email). Appropriate experience of managing clinical services.
DUTIES : Strategic and operational management of all health service platforms at Mossel
Bay Hospital and Mossel Bay Sub District Primary Health Care Services.
Ensure safe clinical services and practices that comply with professional laws
of the country and compatible with acceptable clinical practices. Set up
systems to manage quality assurance in the Sub District to ensure support of
the patient centred experience, compliance to national core standards, Ideal
clinic standards and improved information management. Provide operational
support to the office of the Director by effective and efficient use of allocated
human, financial, infrastructure and health technology resources and to
support service delivery of all the health service platforms in the Sub District.
Develop internal and external key partnerships in the sub-district to ensure a
WOSA to address the BoD and move to a wellness approach.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Le Roux Tel No: (044) 803-2700
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/ oral assessment.
POST 20/301 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (OTORHINOLARYNGOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Otorhinolaryngology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology. Grade 2: A minimum
of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology.
Inherent requirements of the job: Provision of services across the Rural Central
Ecosystem which will include extensive travelling. Valid (Code B/E or higher)
driver’s license. Ability to work overtime and or shifts when necessary.
Availability during Major Incidents as needed and appropriate. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven competency in managing Otorhinolaryngology
cases independently. Proven experience in quality improvement and research
methodology. Proven leadership and team-work abilities. Proven knowledge of
217
relevant health policies, guidelines and related prescripts to manage resources
effectively. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Patient-centered services through comprehensive, efficient and cost-effective
ENT services that is of high quality across the Rural Central Ecosystem. Strong
clinical governance through a culture of persistent quality improvement and
research within the department to stay abreast of clinical development.
Teaching and learning by fostering a learning environment for students, junior
staff and peers at both under- and postgraduate level as required; as well as
updating own knowledge and skills. Perform outreach and support to improve
service delivery in the Rural Central Ecosystem. Sound corporate governance
evident by effective and efficient financial and physical resource management;
as well as adherence to requirements for all People Management matters.
ENQUIRIES : Dr JJ Fourie Tel No: (023) 348-1101
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
POST 20/302 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (FAMILY MEDICINE)
Overberg District
4 Year Contract
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Caledon Hospital (Complex), Theewaterskloof Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (code B/EB/C1) driver’s license. Compulsory
Remunerated Commuted Overtime (COT) duties. Ability and willingness to do
outreach services to clinics throughout the Theewaterskloof sub-district.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of general medical and
surgical conditions at district hospital and Primary Health Care level and
knowledge. Comprehensive evidence-informed, direct patient-centered
approaches to care. Clinical service provision in district level health care
services. Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook etc.) and good
interpersonal, organisational and teamwork skills. Ability to work effectively
within a multidisciplinary team. Recent experience with performing district level
procedures including performance of caesarian sections, administration of
spinal and general anaesthesia, management of chronic conditions and
HIV/TB care, maternal and child health as well as emergency medical care
including adult and neonatal resuscitations. Ability to guide health care
colleagues in managing difficult district-level cases.
DUTIES : Provide quality health care to patients in the Theewaterskloof sub-district
including Caledon Hospital and surrounding clinics, healthcare facilities and
communities as part of community oriented primary care. Provide Outreach
and Support service to PHC facilities and communities in the Theewaterskloof
sub-district. Actively participate in skills transfer, training, teaching and
academic opportunities relevant to the post. Active involvement in the clinical
governance of Theewaterskloof sub-district facilities as required. Performing
administrative duties. Supporting the Sub-district management team, while
maintaining professional ethical standards. Research and Professional
Development (incl. completion of MMED).
ENQUIRIES : Dr H Stofberg at (079) 867-9327
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of four (4) years.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position as personal and they are
entitled to pay progression. It may become necessary to second or transfer
staff to another hospital or institution during their training period; staff will be
consulted prior to any such decision being implemented. Registrars will
function across health facilities as per an agreed programme, including
218
rotations within an assigned training complex (Theewaterskloof Sub-district).
Employees in service who elect to retain pension benefits will be required to
resign upon completion of registrarship should they not be appointed to an
advertised Specialist post. Applicants must indicate whether they have any
bursary obligations. The Department of Health subscribes to the principles of
Employment Equity. Candidates with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
Specific Registrar posts will be identified under the Affirmative Action
programme to ensure representivity in line with applicable procedures.
Preference will be given to South African citizens or permanent residents with
a valid identity document. Applicants with temporary residence status will not
be considered. Registrars will be required to register as postgraduates with the
University of Stellenbosch in accordance with the discipline's yearbook and
guidelines. Should registration with the Higher Education Institution (HEI) as a
student be discontinued for any reason, the Registrar appointment will
automatically terminate. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements may apply on condition that proof of application and
payment of prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted
on or before the interview date. This concession applies only to first-time
registrations or changes in registration status.
POST 20/303 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Directorate: Health Intelligence
The purpose of this role is to promote the understanding, integration, and
innovation of clinical information technology to enhance both clinician and
patient experiences.
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Component: Provincial Health Data Centre)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: No experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA
qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after registration as
Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s Licence and willingness to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent collaboration and communication skills. Attention
to detail, critical thinking, and problem-solving capabilities. Advanced
knowledge and proficiency with cloud technology including Azure SQL, and
interactive data visualization software such as Power BI. Knowledge and
insight of legislation and policies, relevant to current medical practice within the
Public Service, experience in working in a district level hospital and Primary
Health Care (PHC) setting. Demonstrated experience working with teams in
the development and support of applications, and in implementing production
systems in a healthcare organization. Appropriate experience in health
information systems and health data interoperability. Appropriate SQL
programming experience. Appropriate experience working with large datasets
(hundreds of millions of records) and in programming and/or software
development. Statistical expertise and/or broader software programming
219
experience. Experience working with stored procedures and views. Experience
working with a scripting language e.g. Python, SQL, Java, Ruby, and/or R.
Experience with technical communication and presentation of findings and
ideas.
DUTIES : The role supports organizational goals and initiatives through data input,
analysis, and retrieval to improve processes, while maintaining knowledge of
clinical practice and strong relationships with clinical and domain experts.
Develop digital patient management tools and reports that enable clinicians to
deliver better care while improving clinical workflows and the patient
experience. Collaborate with cross-functional teams inclusive of data
engineers, software developers, system administrators, and other
stakeholders to enhance user functionality of patient management digital tools
and ensure data quality and completeness. Improve processes by
systematically analyzing complex problems and present innovative solutions to
clinicians and strategic leaders in the organization. Participate in the design,
testing, implementation, and ongoing support of clinical applications.
Effectively deliver communications and updates to stakeholders at multiple
organizational levels. Contributes to documentation, standard query libraries,
and training materials to enhance organizational data literacy.
ENQUIRIES : Prof A Boulle, email: Andrew.Boulle@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A competency
test may form part of the selection process. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 20/304 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHIATRY) (1-YEAR CONTRACT)
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful candidate to participate
in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job:
Commuted overtime is compulsory. Participate in the after-hours call system.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proven experience in principles of planning,
organizing and implementation. Proven knowledge of Public health policies,
guidelines and related prescript to manage resources effectively. Competent
and willing to work across disciplines if required. Appropriate experience in
220
Psychiatry. Excellent clinical assessment and management procedures.
Excellent clinical skills in terms of consultation. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Uphold the reputation and integrity of the medical profession. Adhere to
requirements for all HR matters and Code of Conduct. Complete and submit
required medical reports and documentation for legal and administrative
purposes. Complete the required CPD activities to maintain registration with
the HPCSA. Ensure an efficient and cost-effective clinical service of high
quality with a patient centered focus. Ensure compliance by means of
maintaining high quality clinical records. Financial management by effective
and efficient use of resources. Participate in training and educational programs
for healthcare professionals. Prescribe and manage treatment plans, including
medication and therapies. Provide comprehensive medical care to patients by
diagnosing and treating illnesses, injuries, and other health conditions. Refer
patients to specialists or other healthcare providers when necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Dr I Lewis Tel No: (021) 404-5381 or email: Ian.lewis@uct.ac.za or Dr J
Jordaan, jeannere.jordaan@uct.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure
that you attach an updated CV. No payment of any kind is required when
applying for these posts. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 20/305 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (ORTHOPAEDICS)
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professional Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Participate in the
after-hours call system. Completion of CMSA 1B Intermediate examination.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge, expertise and experience to
participate in Orthopaedic surgical service provision demonstrated by
appropriate medical officer experience, clinical logbook, research interest and
attendance of courses. Ability to work under pressure as part of a clinical team.
Administrative and IT skills.
DUTIES : Teaching. Innovation and research. Leadership. Clinical Service: Patient care
and operative. Clinical Governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M van der Berg, email: marilyn.vanderberg@uct.ac.za
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be
for a maximum contract period of 5 years. Employees in service who opt to
continue with their pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after
completion of their registrarship should they not be successful for advertised
Specialist positions. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment of Registrar also discontinues.
Applicants must indicate whether they have bursary obligations. Groote Schuur
Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training
platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to work
221
across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East
hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New
Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital. Please ensure that you attach an updated CV
which highlights the orthopaedic clinical medical officer experience, case load,
courses attended, research participation with supportive documentation.
Please include two references, one of which should be an orthopaedic surgical
supervisor with their contact details. The Department of Health is guided by the
principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to
apply and an indication in this regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar
posts within the Department will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action
programme to create a representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable
procedures. Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with
a valid identity document. Registrars will be required to register as post-
graduates with University of Cape Town according to the yearbook and
guidelines.”
POST 20/306 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (OPHTHALMOLOGY) (X2 POSTS)
(5 Year-Contract)
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
the registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal
and written) with patients and colleagues. Ability to work well within a group at
all levels of authority. An interest and commitment to service. Appropriate
experience in the field with proficiency in basic cataract surgery. Clinical and
surgical experience in Ophthalmology as a medical officer. Computer literate
to facilitate patient care, research and administration. FC Ophth (SA) part 1A
(Paper 1 & 2). Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is
compulsory.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Provision. Teaching and Training. Management and
administration. -Research and Professional Development. To be responsible
for the consulting room provisioning.
ENQUIRIES : Prof N du Toit Tel No: (021) 404-5008
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Consideration will be given to existing
employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing
salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay
progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be for a maximum contract period
of 5 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits
as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship
should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the
appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must indicate whether
they have bursary obligations. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all
registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and
may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes
Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital,
Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial
Hospital. Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. The Department of
Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with
disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be
appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will be identified
222
as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative
Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to
SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Registrars will
be required to register as post-graduates with University of Cape Town
according to the yearbook and guidelines.”
POST 20/307 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (SURGERY: OTORHINOLARYNGOLOGY)
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Participate in the
after-hours call system. Completion of FCS (SA) Otorhinolaryngology part II
Intermediate Exam. Each Registrar will be required to work across the Groote
Schuur, Red Cross & New Somerset Hospitals’ platform in meeting the service
requirements of. Registrars will be required to register as postgraduate
students with the University of Cape Town as applicable according to the
requirements for the discipline in the yearbook and guidelines. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience in
otorhinolaryngology since obtaining the degree of MBChB and after completion
of internal rotations. Knowledge, expertise and experience with regards to
providing medical services in surgery and otorhinolaryngology that is obtained
from knowledge and skills obtained in the intermediate examination.
DUTIES : Leadership. Research. Teaching. Clinical Service: Patient care. Clinical
Service: Operative/Surgical Skills. Clinical Governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Hassan, email: Farhana.hassan@uct.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Consideration will be given to existing
employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing
salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay
progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be for a maximum contract period
of 5 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits
as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship
should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the
appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must indicate whether
they have bursary obligations. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all
registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and
may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes
Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital,
Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial
Hospital. Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. The Department of
Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with
disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be
appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will be identified
as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative
Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to
SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Registrars will
be required to register as post-graduates with University of Cape Town
according to the yearbook and guidelines.”
223
POST 20/308 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (RADIOLOGY) (X4 POSTS)
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirements of the job: Current certificate of ATLS/ACLS. Completion of Part
1 FCA Rad (Diag) SA. Emergency and after hour call cover. Commuted
overtime is compulsory. Each Registrar will be working from Red Cross War
Memorial Children's Hospital and Groote Schuur Hospital but will be required
to work across the platform. Registrars will be required to register as post-
graduate students with the University of Cape Town. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and practical skills for safe general diagnostics
radiology. Knowledge & appropriate use of equipment. Research
methodologies. Diagnostic Radiology experience. Any additional experience in
other fields of diagnostic imaging. Experience in Internal Medicine or critical
care under supervision of a Specialist. Appropriate and sufficient clinical
experience since obtaining the degree of MBChB. Diploma certificates e.g.
Diploma in Anaesthesia (DA) or DiP PEC. Effective leadership and
interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Provision of safe imaging services. Learn the art and science of diagnostic
radiology and imaging. Earn clinical skills required by diagnostic imaging.
Participate in academic activities and teaching responsibilities of the division.
Assist with training of interns, medical students and nursing staff. Undertake a
suitable research project for completion of an MMed degree. Supervision in
diagnostic imaging. Performance appraisals/assessments. Safety of personnel
and patients. Input at meetings. Involvement in research/ audits relating to
diagnostic radiology and imaging.
ENQUIRIES : Prof Q Said-Hartley Tel No: (021) 404-4184
NOTE : Preference will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity
document*. No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration with the
relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the
relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This
concession is only applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time
for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for a change in registration status). Candidates will
have to undergo profiling assessments prior to appointment. Consideration will
be given to existing employees who are already on higher salary packages to
retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to
receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be for a maximum
contract period of 4/5 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with
their pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion
of their registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist
positions. Should registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any
reason the appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must
indicate whether they have bursary obligations. Groote Schuur Hospital has
adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform.
Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this
platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals.
This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset
Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George
Provincial Hospital. Please ensure that you attach an updated CV.
POST 20/309 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (OPHTHALMOLOGY) (5/8 TH
POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R872 205 per annum
Grade 2: R995 172 per annum
Grade 3: R1 152 594 per annum
224
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Ophthalmology. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Ophthalmology.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Ophthalmology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Ophthalmology. Grade 3: A minimum of
10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Ophthalmology.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver's license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Experience in cataract surgery and interest in either
glaucoma, corneal or adnexal surgery. Ability to work in a team and under
pressure.
DUTIES : Clinical management of patients in general ophthalmology/ intake clinic as well
as a subspecialist clinic in either glaucoma, corneal diseases, or ocular adnexal
diseases. Surgery on patients with general eye complaints and specifically
performing and teaching cataract surgery. Clinical teaching of students,
medical officers and registrars in cataract management and either glaucoma,
cornea or adnexal diseases. Research activities in cornea, glaucoma or
adnexal diseases at the level of a specialist. Administrative tasks related to the
corneal, glaucoma or adnexal units. Outreach and support to the Tygerberg
Hospital Ecosystem.
ENQUIRIES : Prof L Visser Tel No: (021) 938-5519
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time registration as
Medical Specialist in Ophthalmology with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 20/310 : COUNSELLOR (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R741 102 per annum
Grade 2: R844 128 per annum
Grade 3: R953 094 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Klipfontein/Mitchells Plain Substructure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa as a
Registered Counsellor. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the Health Professionals Council of South Africa as a Registered
Counsellor. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the health
professions Council of South Africa as a Registered Counsellor. Grade 2: A
minimum of 8 years appropriate experience after Registration with the HPCSA
as Counsellor. Grade 3: A minimum of 16 years appropriate experience after
registration with HPCSA as Counsellor. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel in the Sub-structure to
consult clients, attend and conduct meetings and training sessions.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and/or experience in
counselling, psychometric assessments and identification of mental health
challenges. Ability to think strategically and analytically, as well as the ability to
interpret and implement policies and guidelines. Work within your professional
scope of practice and know when to refer for more specialized mental health
interventions. Knowledge and experience in providing mentoring and
supervision of other lay health workers. Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word,
PowerPoint and Excel).
DUTIES : Providing preventative and developmental counselling services and
interventions on all systems levels. Performing supportive psychological
225
interventions to enhance mental well-being on an individual basis, group basis
or at community level. Performing basic psychological screening aimed at
overall generalized functioning enhancement. Provide counselling in
conjunction with interdisciplinary/multi-sectoral support teams. Provide
psychoeducation and mental health promotion. Report writing and providing
feedback to clients/supervisor(s) on interventions. Provide supervision,
mentoring and support to lay health workers. Attend regular clinical
supervision. Form part of the sub-district and district mental health teams.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Patel-Abrahams Tel No: (021) 370-5008
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/311 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST (INTERNS) (X14 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Contract From 01 January 2027 Until 31 December 2027)
SALARY : R741 102 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Tygerberg Hospital, Red Cross Children’s Memorial
Hospital, Valkenberg Hospital, Stikland Hospital, Alexandra Hospital,
Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Honours degree in Psychology. Successful
completion of the theoretical part of the Master’s degree in Clinical Psychology.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the Health
Professionals Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Clinical Psychology Intern
(1 January 2027). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Achievement of training
standards set by the HPCSA and SA Professional Board of Psychology. Ability
to work accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of
professionalism. Good interpersonal and communication skills. Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : In and outpatient clinical assessment, psychological treatment and formulating
of psychiatric conditions in adults and children. Outreach and support to district
and community health clinics. Ward work will comprise of a range of psychiatric
diagnoses, as well as medical wards, intellectual disability and forensic
services. Conducting psychometric assessments including comprehensive
neuro-psychological, personality and developmental evaluations. General and
clinical administrative tasks. Participation in the academic training program of
the departments of Clinical Psychology.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Beukes Tel No: (021) 815-8749
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. All short-listed
candidates will undergo a technical competency test. All applicants are to
submit a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae: 3 referee reports and Interim
Supervisors reports; Identity Document, Matric certificate, Academic
transcripts and HPCSA registration certificate as Psychology Student. The
interns will be exposed to different service areas, including community and
district services. All applicants should indicate their preference of these 3
available training sites: Training site A (Groote Schuur, Red Cross Children’s
Memorial, Valkenberg and Alexander Hospital) Training site B (Tygerberg and
Stikland Hospital) Training site C (Lentegeur Hospital) Applicants may be
placed at other institutions, depending on the availability of posts. The applicant
should indicate their preference on the online application portal. All short-listed
candidates will be expected to submit a reflective task prior to the interview. It
will be expected of successful candidates to provide your year-end final
supervisor’s report if you are selected to the Intern program. No payment of
any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with on appointment. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
POST 20/312 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY AREA:
NEONATOLOGY)
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
226
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing
Science. Or 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Midwifery. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General
Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the one-year post-basic
qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirement of the job: Ability and willingness to assist with shifts and after-
hours hospital cover including weekends, public holidays, night duty relief and
overtime as the need arises. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic computer
literacy. Good written and verbal communication skills. Knowledge of relevant
legislation and policy related to the nursing specialty. Strong leadership and
interpersonal skills. Good organizational skills and the ability to function under
pressure. To maintain ethical standards and promote professional growth and
self-development. Display core values of the Department of Health and
Wellness (WCG) on the execution of duties while practicing within the
legislation, regulations and protocols applicable to the public service.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for planning, managing, co-ordinating and
maintaining an optimal quality Nursing Service as an Operational Manager.
Participative management and utilization of Human Resources to fulfil
operational and developmental functions in the area. Manage and monitor the
Financial Resources of the clinical area. Initiate and participate in training,
development and research within the nursing department. Deliver a support
service to the Nursing Service and the institution.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase Tel No: (021) 938-4000
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/313 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
Overberg District
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Railton Clinic, Swellendam Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and
Care, accredited with the SANC (R48) OR a 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing
(R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary Care Nursing.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration as Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred
to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the one-
year post basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid code 8/EB driver’s license. Willingness
to work overtime when necessary. It will be expected of the candidate to
perform clinical functions within the Primary Health Care setting and do relieve
work at the other clinics in the sub-district when needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel). Demonstrate an
in-depth knowledge of nursing and public service legislation. Knowledge of
Human Resource and Financial policies. Ability to function/make decisions
independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication,
interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for the management and coordination of PHC services and
delivery of person-centered quality nursing care in accordance with the scope
227
of practice and nursing standards at the Primary Health Care. Plan to practice
a holistic health service on a short-/medium-/long term basis including the
provision of effective mobile Primary Health Care services attached to the fixed
facility. Manage Personnel matters including supervision and performance
management, the utilization and supervision of staff, finances and procuring as
well as implementing of policies, prescripts and protocols regarding the
mentioned facets. Manage Health Programmes (CBS, COPC, Comprehensive
Health, HAST, School Health) and Quality assurance program of the facility.
Manage control and act in facet of Health, Support, Data collection and timeous
submission of accurate PHC, CBS and HAST data, including Security,
Cleaning, Infection control and Ground services reports monthly. Organize a
cost-effective service on a daily basis and participate in community
involvement including attending community engagements as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Van der Westhuizen Tel No: (028) 514-8402
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/314 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY) (X2
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital:
Ward 4 Acute Adult Male (X1 Post)
Ward 1 Neuro Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212) OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification as mentioned above. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid Code EB/EC drivers’ licence. Willingness to perform shiftwork,
rotation in night duty and over weekends/public holidays. It will be required of
the incumbent to rotate within the hospital. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good interpersonal, planning, and organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel & Outlook). Knowledge of the Mental Health Care Act, Child Care
Act, Nursing Act and other relevant legislation. Knowledge and experience of
Community Mental Health at PHC level.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized psychiatric nursing care within set
standards and professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of human,
financial and physical resources (equipment and consumables). Participation
in appropriate personal /professional development activities: Self, students,
other categories of staff. Ensure efficient and accurate documentation,
statistical data collection capturing and participation in research activities.
Assist with the development and the implementation of nursing quality
improvement plans, policies and standard operating procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Davids Tel No: (021) 4403136
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
228
POST 20/315 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: ADVANCED
MIDWIFERY) (CLINICAL FACILITATOR)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing
Science (R212) OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited in Midwifery. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirements of the job: Must be prepared to work shifts, weekends, and public
holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic Computer literacy- Microsoft
word, Excel, PowerPoint Knowledge and insight related to the Specialty area.
Ability to promote quality patient care through the setting, implementation, and
monitoring standards. Effective communication, interpersonal, leadership,
decision making and conflict resolution skills. Good Organizational Skills and
the ability to function under pressure.
DUTIES : Facilitate learning opportunities for all Nursing personnel and students. Provide
professional, technical, and educational support for the provision of quality
patient care through proper management of nursing care programmes.
Facilitate the implementation of departmental in-service training as well as
updating of skills and competencies Support the orientation programme for
nurses and students. Evaluate and assess the competencies and skills of
nursing personnel and students, Support the implementation of CPD for all
nursing staff. Ensure appropriate placement and accompaniment of nursing
personnel and nursing students. Effective utilization of Financial and Human
resources. Support and initiate Nursing Research initiatives within the Mother
Woman and Child department. Support and ensure the implementation Quality
Improvement initiatives within the department. Support ecosystem initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L De Palo Tel No: (021) 404-2105
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates could be subjected to a competency test on day of interview.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted with their job application/on
appointment. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”
POST 20/316 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: INTENSIVE CARE
UNIT) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory (Neurosurgical ICU and Haemodialysis)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical
Care Nursing: General (R212) or 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
229
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited in Critical Care Nursing
(Adult). Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts
including weekends, public holidays and night duty. Willingness to rotate within
ICU. Ability to lift and turn patients, stand for long hours and lift heavy
equipment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge and
understanding of nursing and health service-related acts, legislation, policies
and practices. Problem solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills.
Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and use of Internet.
DUTIES : Provide an optimal, holistic, specialised Nursing Care within set standards and
within a professional, legal framework as a professional Nurse in ICU. Maintain
a constructive working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders. Utilise
human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Participate
in research and training and development of community, staff and students to
achieve optimal health care and rehabilitation of trauma and emergency
patients. Deliver an effective outreach service. Assist with administrative
duties, e.g. data collation and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Sutcliffe Tel No: (021) 404-2092
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification or post-graduate qualification in the relevant specialty.
POST 20/317 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
OPD)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: General (R212) or Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency (R212) or 4 year
Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus
R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited in Emergency Nursing OR Critical Care Nursing (Adult).
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound scientific
knowledge of Trauma and Emergency nursing. Good interpersonal skills.
Computer literacy & report writing skills– able to capture and interpret relevant
data. Ability to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary team.
230
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards with a
professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of resources. Participation in
research activities. Provision of support to Nursing Services. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Provide effective
trauma and emergency nursing care to patients.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Van Wyk Tel No: (022) 709-5079
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in the post basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty.
POST 20/318 : PHARMACIST INTERNSHIP (X20 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
(12-Month Contract)
SALARY : R457 836 per annum
CENTRE : Medicine Management, Bloods and Laboratory Services Support (Various
Institutions)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist Intern. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a Pharmacist Intern.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of and ability to comply with
applicable Pharmacy legislation and National and Provincial Health Policies.
Ability to work accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of
professionalism. Good interpersonal and communication skills. -Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Leadership by demonstrating initiative in addressing problems. Provision of
Pharmaceutical Care, including prescription evaluation, dispensing of
medication and provision of information to ensure patient compliance and
therapeutic success. Effective medicine supply management to ensure safe
and reliable procurement, storage, control and distribution of quality
pharmaceuticals. Adherence to policies, procedures and expenditure control.
Assist with the training, education and development of pharmacy staff and
other healthcare workers, and promotion of public health. Quality Management
by demonstrating compliance with Regulated Norms and Standards,
Occupational Health and Safety control and good pharmacy practices. All
duties will be performed under the direct supervision of a pharmacist.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Liddell, Email: Leonard.Liddell@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. All short-listed
candidates will undergo a technical competency test. All applicants are to
submit the following. 1. A cover letter which indicates 5 institutions of
preference, but the applicant may be placed at other institutions depending on
availability. If the applicant does not select 5 institutions their application will
not be considered. 2. A comprehensive CV with referral letters from 3 referees.
3. Certified copies of Matric Certificate, Identity Document, University academic
record for the 3 years of study and South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC)
student registration certificate. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted with their job
application / on appointment. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first-time registration. The interviews will take
place via MS Teams. Accommodation during internship will not be provided.
POST 20/319 : DIETICIAN GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Harry Comay Hospital, George Sub-District
231
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Dietician. Registration with a professional council: Registration with Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Dietician. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of RSA
qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Dietician in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Dietician in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Dietician in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence
(Code B/EB) and willingness to drive to Health facilities in the Garden Route
District. Willingness to work overtime when needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Possess strong clinical knowledge and skills, particularly in
managing disease-specific nutrition support for conditions like HIV/AIDS, TB,
malnutrition, and maternal-child health. Be proficient in therapeutic dietary
interventions and nutrition counselling while effectively communicating with
patients, families, and healthcare teams. Organizational competence is
essential, as the role involves managing clinical, outreach, and administrative
tasks, as well as training and mentoring junior colleagues. Adaptability and
problem-solving skills are key to navigating resource-limited environments.
Leadership abilities, especially in managing clinic operations, when necessary,
combined with a commitment to continuous professional development, round
out the essential competencies for this role.
DUTIES : Provide therapeutic nutrition treatment and counselling for various conditions
such as CDL, HIV/AIDS, TB, malnutrition, and maternal-child health. Promote
breastfeeding, ensure compliance with MBFI/IYCF protocols, and support
micronutrient malnutrition control through outreach services and local clinics.
The role will involve coordinating off-site dietetic services, collaborating with
specialists, and leading nutrition education and health promotion campaigns.
Additionally, you will support food service management, document patient care,
complete administrative tasks, and actively participate in professional
development. Also assist the clinical manager in maintaining smooth clinic
operations.
ENQUIRIES : Dr TS Ackerman Tel No: (044) 814 - 1024
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as a Dietician with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply
for change in registration status).
POST 20/320 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Diagnostic Radiographer. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as an Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of
RSA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience
232
after registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of
SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the as a Diagnostic Radiographer in respect
of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years’ relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Will be required
to perform after-hours and night duties, including weekends and Public
Holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and experience of
theatre, mobile, fluoroscopy and general radiography, computerized
tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. Appropriate experience in a
busy general department with knowledge of radiation protection, quality
assurance and equipment safety pertaining to radiography. Knowledge of
Patient Archiving and Communication Systems. Computer literacy (MS
Windows, Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Good interpersonal skills, the ability
to work under pressure and independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Be responsible for the provision of a patient-centred radiographic imaging
service over a 24-hour period, including risk management. Identify and perform
the most appropriate diagnostic images of high quality, be responsible for self-
development as well as training of staff and students. Ensure optimal care of
equipment, quality assurance and use of suitable radiation protection. Provide
support to the Chief and Assistant Director regarding day to day activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Behardien-Peters Tel No: (021) 404-4187
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 20/321 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. One-year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational
therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom is not required to
perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of
10 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an
Occupational Therapist. Minimum of 11-year relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational therapist in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Minimum of
21-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an
Occupational therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom is
not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of providing intervention for
clients with mental health challenges. Knowledge of applicable health
legislation, relevant acts, policies and procedures. Understanding of evidence-
based practice and knowledge of PSR model in a Mental health environment.
Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Provide evidence based Clinical Service within a Mental health setting in
accordance with prescribed requirements and protocols. Conduct
233
assessments and implement treatments plans within allocated areas.
Administration related to clinical service delivery. Ensure effective resource
management and general administration tasks. Student supervision and
training. Management of events and projects advocating for mental health
services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Gamiet Tel No: (021) 826-5813
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status).
POST 20/322 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: RECORDS MANAGEMENT
COMPLIANCE
Directorate: Health Intelligence
Sub-directorate: Records Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland District Office, Malmesbury
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in records and information
management administration. Appropriate Electronic Document and Records
Management System (EDRMS) experience. Inherent requirement of the job:
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel extensively (Western
Cape Province), to drive a government vehicle and overnight when required
within the district. Completed Records Management course provided by
Western Cape Archives and Records Service (WCARS). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge and application of Records
Management compliance with National and Provincial policies and guidelines.
Strong organisational and administrative capability with excellent attention to
detail and analytical thinking. Sound experience in records management,
compliance auditing, and governance practices. In-depth knowledge of records
management legislation and frameworks, including PAIA, POPIA, Archives Act,
and the National Health Act. Proficiency in health records and information
systems (e.g. PHCIS, SPV, Clinicom, NHLS advantageous). Advanced
computer literacy, including MS Office and electronic records/document
management systems (EDRMS/ECM). Strong project management, planning,
and coordination skills. Ability to analyse information, conduct basic research,
and produce high-quality reports. Excellent stakeholder engagement,
interpersonal, and communication skills (written and verbal). Demonstrated
training, facilitation, and presentation capability. Ability to manage multiple
priorities, meet deadlines, and perform effectively under pressure. Ability to
work collaboratively across functions (transversal environment) while
maintaining accountability.
DUTIES : Compliance monitoring and evaluation of records and information
management practices across the West Coast District. Conduct facility and
district compliance assessments using approved tools and Assess adherence
to PAIA, POPIA, National Archives Act, and departmental policies, procedures,
and SOPs. Identify compliance gaps and develop, implement, and track
remedial action plans. Compile analytical reports (weekly, monthly, quarterly,
annual) on compliance outcomes. Develop dashboards, statistical reports, and
compliance insights. Present findings, risks, and recommendations to
management through formal reports and presentations. Support internal and
external audit processes (e.g. AGSA, WCARS, Departmental, National,
Operational). Ensure audit readiness and availability of accurate supporting
evidence. Coordinate, track, and report on responses to audit findings.
Records Management Systems & Policy Implementation. Support the
development, review, and implementation of records management policies,
procedures, and tools. Ensure effective management of physical and electronic
records across the Department. Maintain standards in accordance with
approved file plans and records control schedules. Support and coordinate
compliance with PAIA processes, including management of requests and
stakeholder engagement. Ensure alignment with POPIA requirements in all
234
records and information management activities. Disposal, Archiving &
Retention Management. Facilitate and monitor the archiving and lawful
disposal of records in accordance with approved disposal authorities. Ensure
accurate application of retention periods and proper documentation of disposal
processes. Facilitate and Training, Awareness & Capacity Building within the
District to strengthen records and information management compliance.
Facilitate training, awareness programmes, and interventions on records and
information management. Provide ongoing support to business units to
improve compliance and strengthen records management practices.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Pretorius-Hattingh Tel No: (021) 483-4684
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/323 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A (TECHNICAL SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade A: R397 329 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Hospital Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate Trade Test Certificate.
Experience: 5 years’ experience as an Artisan after obtaining the trade test
certificate. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid code B/EB driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Be conversant with the requirements of the
Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety. Good communication (verbal
and written) and interpersonal skills. Sound knowledge of managing a
workshop, staff members and maintenance facets. Computer literacy (MS
Word and Excel).
DUTIES : Effectively manage the Maintenance department. Develop the staff of the
Maintenance department. Responsible for production work in different fields
i.e. electrical, plumbing, painting, carpentry and ensure tasks are performed
according to OHS Act, and to applicable norms and standards. Plan and design
new installations and alterations. Meet with assigned contractors and as well
as monitor progress of projects. Ensure the efficient maintenance of hospital
equipment. Drafting of maintenance plans for equipment and ensure that the
equipment is serviced as per schedule.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CJ Van Houten Tel No: (021) 508-8333
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/324 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R338 208 per annum
Grade 2: R413 004 per annum
Grade 3: R496 668 per annum
Grade 4: R608 859 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein/Mitchells Plain Substructure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification as a Social Worker
that allows for registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professionals (SACSSP). Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as
Social Worker. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as Social Worker with
SACSSP. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as Social Worker with SACSSP. Grade 4: A minimum
of 30 years appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as Social
Worker with SACSSP. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Provide an after-hour service over weekends and public
holidays. Willingness to work in any department in the community health centre
and counselling of patient defaulters. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of the psycho-social implications and therapeutic skills regarding
illness and disease. Good administrative and computer literacy skills.
Knowledge and experience in crisis intervention work.
DUTIES : Specialist service delivery in designated clinical area. Maintain a proper
Administration system. Effectively manage the physical resources. Education
and training of professional self, staff and students and research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Hull Tel No: (021) 370-5000
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
235
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 20/325 : INDUSTRIAL TECHNICIAN GENERAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTION
(MEDICAL GAS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Diploma or equivalent (T- or N- or
S- Stream) in Electrical Engineering Mechanical or Electromechanical fields or
registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a
Professional Engineering Technician in terms of section 14(1) or 14(2) of the
Engineering Profession of South Africa Act, 1990. Experience:
Appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
minimum educational qualification. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver's license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to do
maintenance to Medical Gas, Gas and Compressor Infrastructure Computer
literacy with the ability to write Specifications. Multitask and skills in Project
Management and Medical Gas Field.
DUTIES : Provide planning for the Medical Gas Division and the equipment maintenance
under the Medical Gas Division’s control. Collect, log, and track repair
requisitions. Assist in ordering and controlling the workshop materials, gasses
and tools. Manage all contractors, contracts and liaise with Engineering. Keep
record of all repairs and perform the necessary administrative functions. Liaise
with all relevant personal in ensuring Groote Schuur Hospital is within
regulations and with service providers and agents to manage quotations and
maintenance. Liaise, evaluate, investigate, monitor and advise on suitability of
equipment, costs of repairs and running cost of equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R van Schalkwyk Tel No: (021) 404-6289 or Mr D Smith Tel No: (021) 404-
3163
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
POST 20/326 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT
Chief Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Office of the Chief Director: Supply Chain
Management).
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An accredited secretarial diploma and/or
administrative qualification on the level of NQF level 5 (a certificate of
competition should be provided). Qualification on a higher level may also be
accepted on condition that the subjects of the qualification align to the functions
as per the attached job description. Experience: Appropriate experience in
rendering secretarial and/or administrative support services to management or
senior management. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to travel.
Willingness to work after hours. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Secretarial & Office Management.
Document, presentation and spreadsheet compilation. Advanced knowledge in
MS Excel, MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Outlook, MS Teams. Excellent
interpersonal and administrative organisational skills. Project Management.
Presentation and report writing. Ability to function in a team. Ability to interact
with people at all levels of society. Ability to analyse numbers and read reports.
DUTIES : Render a secretarial/office management service to the manager (front office
management, typing, filing, excel reports/graphs, drawing up PowerPoint
presentations, etc.). Provide diary management and meeting support to the
manager (arrange meetings and travel arrangements, taking minutes, collation
of documents, etc.). Provide administrative support to the manager
(collate/compile reports, manage leave registers, co-ordinate training, etc.).
Provide finance & supply chain support to the manager (processing of claims,
procurement of standard items, management of petty cash). Supports the
manager with the administration of the manager’s budget.
236
ENQUIRIES : Ms R van Heerden, email: Rentia.vanHeerden@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A competency
test will form part of the interview process. The person appointed to this position
will be subjected to security clearance and the signing of a performance
agreement and an employment contract.
POST 20/327 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE/ADMIN
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Hospital Complex
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’S) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience
in financial and expenditure management. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Sound Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National
and Provincial Treasury Regulations, Accounting Officer’s System of the
Department of Health. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, and PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Authorising of payments on the BAS and Logis systems. Compliance
Monitoring including adherence to policies and feedback to Internal Control
Audit Findings. Maintenance and Clearance of Asset and Liability Accounts.
Managing Revenue and Petty Cash Administration. Compilation of Annual
Financial Statements, In Year Monitoring (IYM), Leases and 30 Day Payment
Reporting. Human Resource Development and Management. Support to
Supervisor and Finance Component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Sandile Tel No: (021) 508-7410
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/328 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Senior Certificate or equivalent. Experience:
Appropriate experience in healthcare support services. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Willingness to do standby and work
overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy and thorough
knowledge of computer systems (MS Office, Logis). Good organizational and
administrative skills. Good decision making and conflict management skills.
Working knowledge of support services management. Ability to extract,
analyse and compile reports from systems.
DUTIES : Supervise and maintain acceptable standards of quality of services delivered
by the Support Services components (Transport, Registry, Switchboard,
Porters, Residence and Recreational areas). Efficient and cost effective
monitoring, evaluation and reporting of monthly expenditures against allocated
budget. Supervise support staff, manage leave and performance, and ensure
compliance with HR policies and disciplinary procedures. Effective and efficient
support within Support Services. Effective and efficient administration of the
services. Ensure relevant policy implementation and compliance (Occupational
Health & Safety, Ideal Hospital Framework, National Core Standards, etc) at
the Hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Piet Tel No: (023) 348-1125
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/329 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (X5
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Nyanga CDC
Gugulethu CHC (X2 Posts)
Hanover Park CHC
Heideveld CDC
237
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse or 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a General Nurse.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, night shift and overtime when requested.
Willingness to rotate within the facility and assist with other clinics in the Sub-
structure when there is a need. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge
of Nursing Care processes and procedures Nursing Act. Problem solving and
decision-making. Report writing skills. Health promotion and team building.
Good interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care within the Primary Health Care context. Maintain
ethical practice within legal and regulatory frameworks. Maintain a constructive
working relationship with all relevant stakeholders of the Primary Health Care
Team. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Participate in training programmes and research activities. Maintain workplace
disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mgqaliso Tel No: (021) 831-0882
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical, and oral assessment.
POST 20/330 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R275 340 per annum
Grade 2: R318 666 per annum
Grade 3: R343 761 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A qualification that allows registration with
the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic) Institutional or Pharmacist
Assistant (Post Basic, as required by the training facility and the South African
Pharmacy Council (SAPC). Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SAPC registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic)
(Institutional) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic). Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post Basic) with the SAPC. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to
perform regular after hour duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Ability to work
accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism.
Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team with excellent interpersonal and
communication skills. Appropriate knowledge of National and Provincial Health
Policies, Medicines Act 101of 1965, the Pharmacy Act 53 of 1974 and Public
Finance Management Act. Appropriate clinical and pharmaceutical knowledge.
Knowledge with JAC/WellSky dispensing system. Time management, strategic
planning, prioritizing of tasks.
DUTIES : Effective control of Pharmaceutical stock. Ensure effective Pharmaceutical
Care (Dispensing) including the Chronic Dispensing Unit within the Sub
238
District. Assist with collection of Pharmacy Data and recordkeeping. Promote
and assist with optimal Pharmaceutical Advisory Service with the relevant
multi-disciplinary teams. Ensure effective Quality of Health Service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Hermanus Tel No: (022) 487-9252
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test and/or competency test.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
POST 20/331 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (CARPENTRY)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support Services
SALARY : Grade A: R253 341 per annum
Grade B: R297 249 per annum
Grade C: R345 342 per annum
CENTRE : Metro West, Zwaanswyk Mobile Workshop, Station Road, Retreat
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate
(Carpentry). Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade B: At least
18 years appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the
relevant Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence
(Code B/EB) and willing to travel throughout the Western Cape. Perform
standby duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Be conversant with the
requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act.
DUTIES : Perform necessary administrative functions. Control over tools and materials.
Train and supervision of subordinates. Assist with the execution of building
projects/repairs at hospitals and health institutions. Maintain and repairs of
buildings and equipment at health institutions within the Western Cape
Province. Assist Artisan Foremen/Chief Artisan with their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Bosman Tel No: (021) 715-5921
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/332 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (PAINTING)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support Services
SALARY : Grade A: R253 341 per annum
Grade B: R297 249 per annum
Grade C: R345 342 per annum
CENTRE : Metro West, Zwaanswyk Mobile Workshop, Station Road, Retreat
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in
Painting. Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade B: At least 18
years appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the
relevant Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence
(Code B/EB, manual) and willing to travel throughout the Western Cape.
Perform standby duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Be conversant with
the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Sound knowledge of the SANS 10400 Building Regulation.
DUTIES : Perform necessary administrative functions, train and supervision of
subordinates. Control over tools and materials. Maintenance and repairs by
painting, glazing, and spray- painting of hospital buildings. Emergency
breakdowns (including afterhours repairs). Planning and décor of new
installations and alterations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Bosman Tel No: (021) 715-5921
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/333 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SCM (ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT)
(PROCUREMENT) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
239
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Supply Chain Management. Appropriate experience and knowledge in Public
Sector Procurement and Supply Chain Management Processes and
Procedures. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work under pressure.
Good communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy and have
knowledge of related procurement systems, SYSPRO, EPS, ESL Knowledge
and understanding of relevant acquisition management legislation and
regulations. Knowledge of SCM framework, AO System, Provincial Treasury
Instructions, Practice Notes and Delegations issued in terms of section 44 of
PFMA.
DUTIES : Sourcing of Quotations for Goods and Services via the EPS i.e., Buyouts, mini
contracts, staggered orders and procuring from contracts to ensure adequate
supply of stock. Preparation of Quotation Batches for the Quotation Committee.
Processing and expediting of Purchase Orders. Communication/Follow-ups
and Feedback with Suppliers and End-users. Be an active member of the
innovation team within SCM to improve on processes and work methods.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JK Pypers Tel No: (021) 404-2338
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
POST 20/334 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (SUPPORT SERVICES)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate office administration experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): MS Office Computer intermediate literacy (MS Word/ Excel/
Powerpoint). Computer skills (MS Office, Excel, and Word- databases, pivots,
formatting, graphs, writing skills and typing). Report writing skills, Analysing
skills. Telephone etiquette. Organising and interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Render an office management support service to the Deputy Director: Support
Services and Estate Management that oversees Food Management; General
Support Services; Security and Estate Support, Environmental Hygiene and
Cleaning Services, as well as Facility/Property Management that include
information w.r.t infrastructure projects on the estate. Responsible for
organising the diary of the Manager that include scheduling meetings,
managing, organising and filing documents for the Manager. Scan submissions
and documents received for accuracy, re-direct where necessary/ ensure
compliance before presenting to the manager to signs off. Build relations
between components, stakeholders and Management. Organise diary by
prioritizing overlapping meeting requests and arranging secunda, if necessary.
Request documents from line managers required to meet deadlines on behalf
of Deputy Director: Support Services. Assist with any other adhoc requests as
and when the need arise pertaining support services. Manage the office in
absence of the Deputy Director: Support Services. Type minutes of meetings,
distribute minutes for meetings as required and relief at the office of the
Director: Finance, when applicable.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A du Plessis Tel No: (021) 938-4413
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a competency assessment.
POST 20/335 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN
Chief Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, (Finance Section: Payments)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Finance Department. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to rotate
with the Finance Section and relieve colleagues. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Strong sense of confidentiality and trustworthiness. Good
written and communication skills. Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel,
240
PowerPoint, email). Relevant knowledge, skills, and experience in processes,
procedures, prescripts and legislative framework, PFMA, NTR and PTI, and
the Accounting Officer’s System of the Department of Health, including
delegations. Knowledge and experience of LOGIS and BAS. In-depth
knowledge of SCOA codes and reports on LOGIS and BAS. Knowledge and
experience in Supplier Reconciliation. Working knowledge of ledger accounts
and debt. Ability to analyse and provide solutions to problems. Good
interpersonal and organisational skills.
DUTIES : Provide a financial administrative service and overall management of activities
within the office. Effectively and efficiently monitored accounts for the
department. Render an effective and efficient Sundry Creditors payment
function. Render an effective capturing and pre-authorisation of payments on
the Logis system. Maintain and capture inter-departmental claims. Capture
credit notes and disallowances. Check and verify payment segments as listed
in the SCOA list. IFS & AFS Financial Reporting. Support to State Accountant.
ENQUIRIES : Mr U Filander Tel No: (021) 483 6754 or email:
Ulrigh.Filander@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/336 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X7 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein / Mitchells Plain Sub-structure (Various institutions)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the South African Nursing Council as an Enrolled Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years recognisable
nursing experience as an enrolled nurse after registration with the SANC.
Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years recognisable experience as an enrolled nurse
after registration with the SANC. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness
to work night duty, weekends and public holidays as well as overtime.
Willingness to rotate within the facility and assist with other clinics in the Sub-
structure when there is a need. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
interpret basic clinical signs and symptoms. Knowledge of Nursing Practices
and IPC, control measures and practices. Ability to lift and turn patients, stand
long hours and lift heavy equipment. Good communication skills. Basic
Computer Literacy. Self-discipline.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilisation of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Patel-Abrahams Tel No: (021) 370-5000
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 20/337 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Robertson Hospital, Langeberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject. Experience:
Appropriate experience of Asset Management and Warehousing within the
public or private environment. Working experience in Procurement
(eProcurement System). Inherent requirements of the job: The person must be
willing to rotate within Supply Chain Management. The person will be
responsible to travel within the Langeberg sub-district to perform Asset
Management functions. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
241
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel, Outlook (e-
mail). Knowledge of the AOS, PFMA, Finance Instructions, Provincial Treasury
Instructions and National Treasury Regulations. Knowledge and experience of
LOGIS (Logistical Information System).
DUTIES : Responsible for demand and acquisition management functions. Perform
duties related to Electronic Procurement System processes and compliance.
Prepare bidding templates and relevant documentation to present at Quotation
Evaluation Committee. Perform various tasks related to procurement
processes and compliance. Effective maintenance of assets and systems of
the asset register. Regular follow-up on outstanding orders. Perform and assist
with Interim and Annual Financial statement reporting and financial year end
tasks. Ensure compliance to all relevant laws and prescripts related to the
Supply Chain Asset and Warehouse Management duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr H Wiese Tel No: (023) 626-8522
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/338 : DENTAL ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 2 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R225 777 per annum
Grade 2: R262 953 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain Community Health Centre
Heideveld Community Day Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification or prescribed in-
service training (with duration of less than 2 years) that allows for the required
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Dental Assistant. Registration with a professional council: Registration for
2026/2027 as Dental Assistant with the HPCSA. Experience: Grade 1: None
after obtaining an appropriate qualification or prescribed in-service training that
allows for the required registration with the HPCSA as a Dental Assistant.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience after obtaining an
appropriate qualification or prescribed in-service training that allows for the
required registration with the HPCSA as a Dental Assistant. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence. Wilingness to work
overtime and weekends if needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of patient preparations and dental instruments. Knowledge of the
National Oral Health Policy, National Norms, Standards and Practice
guidelines for Primary Oral Health Care, Occupational Health & Safety Act.
DUTIES : Optimal assistance with dental treatment at Oral Health facilities. Efficient and
effective management of clinic, statistics and stock. Ensure quality of care.
Train and continuous professional development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Z Hassen-Mia Tel No: (021) 392-8173
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to do a competency test as part of the interview
process. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
POST 20/339 : FOOD SERVICES SUPERVISOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital, Northern/Tygerberg Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/ grade 9 (Std. 7) or equivalent qualification. Experience: Appropriate
supervisory experience in a large-scale Hospital Food Service environment.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends, and
public holidays if it is required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
hygiene and safety procedures in an industrial Food Service Unit. Problem
solving, decision making and time management skills. Computer literacy and
the ability to create spreadsheets, word documents and presentations in
242
Microsoft Office. Knowledge and skills regarding supervising the operation of
an industrial Food Service Unit.
DUTIES : Supervise operational food services and the milk kitchen. Supervise hygiene
and occupational health and safety. Supervise the maintenance and control of
equipment. Supervision of staff. Support Financial Management (saving
measures, stock levels, recordkeeping).
ENQUIRIES : Ms CN Cornelius Tel No: (021) 834-5897
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/340 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R181 230 per annum
Grade 2: R211 401 per annum
Grade 3: R249 141 per annum
CENTRE : Heideveld Community Day Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Nursing
Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable nursing
experience after registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC).
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night shift and
overtime when requested. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Provision of
Quality Nursing Care to health care users. Appropriate experience in a Health
environment.
DUTIES : Provide quality basic nursing care. Provide elementary clinical nursing care.
Assist patients with activities of daily living which includes Patient Hygiene,
Nutritional Status, mobility and elimination needs. Maintaining professional
growth, Ethical Standards and Self-development. Record keeping. Support to
supervisor and colleagues by team participation. Maintain a degree of
professionalism in the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Bantam Tel No: (021) 833-0661
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 20/341 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (CHRONIC WARD 1 (30) (X2 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R181 230 per annum
Grade 2: R211 401 per annum
Grade 3: R249 141 per annum
CENTRE : West Coast TB Centre, (Sonstraal Transitional Care Hospital and Chronic
Ward Sonstraal)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2:
A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience after registration
with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’
appropriate/ recognisable experience after registration with the SANC as
Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Must be prepared to work
shifts, weekends, public holidays and night duty as well as overtime when
necessary. Ability to work under pressure. Willingness to rotate between Wards
according to Operational needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
function / make decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary
team. Good communication and interpersonal relationships. Knowledge of
243
relevant nursing legislation, policies and protocols of the Department of Health,
Western Cape. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care). Provide elementary
clinical nursing care. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development. Effective functioning within multi-disciplinary team. Effective
utilisation of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Liebenberg Tel No: (021) 837-8088
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 20/342 : TRADESMAN AID (MECHANICAL)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support Services
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Metro West, Zwaanswyk Mobile Workshop, Station Road, Retreat
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 or equivalent certificate.
Experience: Appropriate experience within the mechanical field. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to travel throughout the Western Cape
Province. Physically fit to do manual labour. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to handle tools. Good interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Carry out minor maintenance tasks. Assist with repairs and emergency
breakdowns (including after hours’ repairs). Assist with the installation of plant,
equipment and alterations. Clear areas where work has been carried out.
Ensure that tools and material are available when needed. Assist the Artisans
in the execution of their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Bosman Tel No: (021) 715-5921
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/343 : TRADESMAN AID (PAINTING) (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support Services
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Metro East Hub (Station Road, Retreat)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience within the painting and building field within a workshop
environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to travel throughout
the Western Cape Province. Physically fit to do manual labour. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to handle tools. Good interpersonal skills. Good
communication skills. Sound Knowledge of mainly in Building related trades,
like: (Carpentry, Plumbing, Painting and Building).
DUTIES : Carry out minor maintenance tasks. Assist with repairs and emergency
breakdowns (including after-hour repairs). Assist with the installation of plant,
equipment, and alterations. Clear areas where work has been carried out.
Ensure that tools and materials are available when needed. Assist the Artisans
in the execution of their duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Bosman Tel No: (021) 712- 7861
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/344 : PORTER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Gugulethu Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
Porter experience in a public health facility. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, including nightshift, weekends and Public Holidays.
Willingness to handle corpses (deceased bodies). Willingness to work overtime
when required. Must be of sober habits, physically fit to lift patients/corpse
from/onto beds, trolleys, vehicles, wheelchairs and heavy equipment.
244
Willingness to cover shifts in absence of colleagues. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and communication skills. Knowledge
of safe infection prevention methods. Ability to work under pressure,
unsupervised, and in a team context.
DUTIES : Deliver specimens to laboratories and ensure a safe and hygienic work
environment. Check and replace gas cylinders in wards/Oxygen
bank/treatment areas and assist with shifting of medical equipment to and from
rooms. Accompany walking patients and transport sitting/non-walking patients
per trolley or wheelchair between wards and treatment areas. Take
responsibility for the transportation of corpses from wards to the mortuary and
perform relevant duties in the mortuary which include mortuary registers. Safe
transport of patients on trolleys and wheelchairs to and from different
departments/wards and assist with loading of patients in/out of
ambulances/vehicles. Responsible for the cleanliness of trolleys, wheelchairs,
and working areas and report any defects to trolleys/wheelchairs to the
supervisor and reply to requests from wards/clinics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M October Tel No: (021) 816-8631
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 20/345 : HOUSEHOLD AID
West Coast District
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience:
Appropriate cleaning experience in a hospital environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to do physical hard work and stand for long
hours. Willingness to relieve in other departments when required. Willingness
to work shifts, weekends, night-duty, and overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal skills. Good verbal, as well as written
communication skills. Appropriate knowledge with the use of the cleaning
equipment, cleaning materials and cleaning detergents and stock.
DUTIES : Oversee general cleaning tasks to ensure clean and hygienic environment that
complies with hygienic, occupational health and safety and infection control
and prevention standards. Execute household tasks in respect of food
services. Assist with effective utilization of resources, control of cleaning,
household items, linen and stock. Render support services to nursing via OPM
and contribute to domestic outcomes being met. Effective and efficient waste
management Maintain professional growth, ethical standards, and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Van Wyk Tel No: (022) 709-5079
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 06 July 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
245
OTHER POST
POST 20/346 : ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST (PRODUCTION LEVEL): ROUTINE
MAINTENANCE REGION 2 (OUDTSHOORN) REF NO: DOI 54/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R471 720 - Grade C: R717 846 per annum, (OSD as prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Technology in Civil Engineering (B Tech) or relevant qualification;
Three years post qualification Engineering Technologist experience required;
Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Civil Engineering
Technologist; A valid driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Technical: Project management; Technical design and analysis;
Research and development; Computer-aided engineering applications;
Knowledge of legal compliance; Technical report writing; Networking;
Professional Judgment; Generic: Problem solving and analysis; Decision
making; Team leadership; Creativity; Self-management; Customer focus and
responsiveness; Communication skills; Computer skills; Planning and
Organising; People management.
DUTIES : Provide technological advisory services: Support Engineers, Technicians and
associates; Promote safety standards in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology; Solve broadly defined technological
challenges through application of proven techniques and procedures; Develop,
maintain and manage current technologies; Identify and optimize technical
solutions by applying engineering principles; Perform administrative and
related functions: Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports; Provide
inputs to the operational plan; Develop, implement and maintain databases;
Research and development: Keep up with new technologies and procedures;
Research/literature studies on technical engineering technology to improve
expertise; To liaise with relevant boards/councils on engineering-related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr X Smuts Tel No: (044) 272 6071 or (076) 036 2805
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 06 July 2026
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
246
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/347 : DIRECTOR: DISTRICT AND LOCAL PERFORMANCE MONITORING REF
NO: LG 13/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), all–inclusive salary package. Note: The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary (70%) and the employer’s
contribution to the Pension Fund.
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-degree/ Advanced Diploma (NQF 7) or higher
qualification as recognised by SAQA in Monitoring and Evaluation or Public
Management or related; A minimum of 5 years relevant middle/senior
management experience in a monitoring and evaluation or related
environment; A valid code B driving licence; Successful completion of the
Senior Management Pre-entry Programme for entry into the SMS upon
appointment. Note: A requirement for appointment at Director level is the
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government. This is a Public Service
specific training programme which is applicable for appointments at SMS level.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Applicable policies. legislation,
guidelines, standards, procedures and best practices relating to this portfolio;
Constitutional, Institutional and Development circumstances of municipalities
in the Western Cape; Monitoring and Evaluation legislation, guiding manuals
and frameworks; Strategic Management processes including strategic
planning and performance management within government including inter-
sphere and cross sector planning; Core competencies: Strategic Capability and
leadership; People Management and Empowerment; Programme and Project
Management; Financial Management and Change Management; Skills: Policy
formation; Ability to interpret and apply relevant policies and procedures; Ability
to analyse, promote, facilitate and implement strategic planning; Ability to
communicate at all levels and across sectors using various media, stakeholder
engagement and to build and maintain working partnerships. The ability to
develop dashboards to track municipal performance. Develop strategic and
operational reports on the state of local government in the province.
Implementation of knowledge management in line with DPSA provisions.
DUTIES : Review and maintain a framework for monitoring all aspects of municipal
performance; Manage the process of collection and collation of data; Monitor
and evaluate implementation of municipal performance monitoring systems;
Assess and analyse data from municipalities to inform support to
municipalities; Provide input to national and provincial policy and legislative
processes as well as structures regarding performance monitoring of
municipalities; Manage the national and provincial municipal excellence
awards processes and provide input to the national processes; Provide
direction to the components strategic management and give input to the Chief
Directorate's strategic planning processes including Municipal ICT and GIS
capability; People Management and Empowerment; Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. S Greyling Tel No: (021) 483 6126
DEPARTMENT OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 06 July 2026
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/348 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL-WIDE MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF
NO: DOTP 62/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), all–inclusive salary package. Note: The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary (70%) and the employer’s
contribution to the Pension Fund.
247
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum
of 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Successful
completion of the Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management
Service) prior to appointment: The nominated candidate will be required to
complete the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme (Nyukela) before the
candidate can be appointed into this post. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Proven knowledge of and working experience with legislation,
regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices relevant to the line
functions, including the Public Finance Management Act, National and
Provincial Treasury Regulations, of Labour Relations legislation, and other
financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements. Proven
knowledge and understanding of public service procedures (processes and
systems), governance and administration, and institutional arrangements,
including constitutional and legal frameworks, the functioning of the province
and activities of sister departments. Proven knowledge and understanding of
Data Governance and Artificial Intelligence (AI) policies and frameworks in a
government-wide context. Knowledge and understanding of the Government-
wide Monitoring Evaluation framework, The National evaluation Policy
framework, the Framework for Strategic plans and Annual Performance Plans.
Proven knowledge and understanding of programme and project management,
performance management and strategic planning processes. Proven
knowledge and understanding of procurement and tendering processes, and
other financial, human resources and discourse management procedures.
Proven knowledge and understanding of the global, regional and local political,
economic and social affairs impacting on the provincial government of the
Western Cape. Skills in the following: Strategic thinking and planning: strong
conceptualisation, formulation, planning, and organising skills for complex
applications. Leadership and people management: ability to provide thought
leadership, build teams, and manage people effectively. Communication and
adaptability: excellent communication, persuasion, and influencing skills, with
the ability to manage ambiguity, multi-task, and perform under pressure.
DUTIES : Line Management: Strategic management, enable and guide in respect of a
data and evidence system in the following functional areas: Lead the
development and continuous improvement of a data and evidence system that
enables the reliable collection, management and quality assurance for an
interconnected data ecosystem. Develop and maintain an integrated indicator
system for measuring and monitoring policy priorities and the broader data
development agenda. Develop and maintain core directories of common data
sources and a data system for central visualisation and access. Generate,
analyse and report data and evidence on development focused indicators that
informs government performance results towards outcomes and impact of
policy priorities. Ensure alignment with government-wide Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) frameworks, data governance policies and practices and
statistical systems, while maintaining a toolkit of innovative data and evidence
methodologies. Lead and coordinate data governance and data and evidence
practices as well as stakeholder management across the Western Cape
Government (WCG). Strategic Management (including change management):
Provide strategic leadership to the Directorate by defining and periodically
reviewing its purpose, objectives, priorities and activities, and driving strategic
planning and delivery. Lead the development and implementation of the
Directorate’s strategic and business plans to ensure alignment with priorities
and effective management of resources. Monitor compliance and governance,
including adherence to relevant legislation and prescripts, and ensure proper
record keeping of activities and resources (people, finances and assets).
Evaluate and report on Directorate performance against pre-determined and
measurable objectives and standards, while fostering a culture of innovation
and continuous improvement within the Directorate. Report regularly to the
Chief Director on the activities of the Directorate and on matters of substantial
operational importance. Perform all duties assigned to the post of Director as
required. People Management and Empowerment: Recruit, develop, and retain
staff in appropriate numbers and grades to achieve the Directorate’s
objectives. Motivate, train, and guide employees to achieve excellence in
service delivery. Manage performance, evaluation, and development of staff.
Oversee workforce planning, capacity building, and service delivery
improvement initiatives. Promote sound labour relations and maintain
discipline within the Directorate. Financial Management: Manage participation
248
in the Directorate budgeting process, including Annual and Adjustment
Budgets. Assume accountability for efficient, economic, and effective
management of the Directorate’s budget and expenditure. Ensure adherence
to procurement, tender, and contract management requirements. Ensure
alignment of expenditure with departmental and strategic objectives. Report on
financial matters to the Chief Director and relevant oversight structures. Ensure
appropriate risk management controls, asset management, and record-
keeping are in place and adhered to.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. Z Ishmail - Zeenat.Ishmail@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment.
POST 20/349 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL SPATIAL INFORMATION REF NO: DOTP
63/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), all–inclusive salary package. Note: The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary (70%) and the employer’s
contribution to the Pension Fund.
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum
of 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Successful
completion of the Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management
Service) prior to appointment: The nominated candidate will be required to
complete the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme (Nyukela) before the
candidate can be appointed into this post. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Proven senior management expertise and practical experience in:
Legislation and Governance: Deep understanding of modern systems of
governance and public administration, including a thorough understanding of
the constitutional, legal and institutional frameworks governing the South
African public sector, and the application thereof in the Western Cape
Government spatial information priorities. Regulatory Frameworks: The Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), National and Provincial Treasury
Regulations, Labour Relations legislation, and related financial prescripts,
directives and collective agreements, with demonstrated ability to ensure
compliance, risk management, and sound governance and Data Governance
Frameworks Strategic Management: Policy development, strategic planning,
monitoring, and evaluation and review of processes aligned with provincial
priorities and government outcomes. Financial Management: Public finance
249
management, procurement and tendering processes, and human resource and
discourse management. People and Performance Management:
Comprehensive experience in human resource management, team leadership
and performance systems to drive accountability and results. Operational
Systems: Public service procedures, performance management systems, and
information and knowledge management systems, enabling efficient
operations, evidence-based decision-making and continuous improvement.
Programme and Project Management: End-to-end programme and project
management, including planning, implementation, oversight, reporting and risk
mitigation to achieve strategic and operational targets. Contextual Awareness:
Strong understanding of global, regional and local political, socio-economic
and political dynamics, impacting the functioning of Western Cape and
activities of provincial government departments, translating insights into
informed strategic advice. Service Delivery and Innovation: Skilled in
operational, spatial, and knowledge management systems supporting
evidence-based decision-making, efficient operations, and continuous
improvement. Skills in the following: Effective communication skills. GIS and
Spatial Data Management skills. Strong analytical skills. Spatial Data
Governance skills. Strong ability to conceptualise, formulate and demonstrate
thought leadership in complex applications. Persuasion and influencing
abilities. Leadership, team-building and interpersonal skills. Planning,
organising, and people management skills. Proven ability to multi-task,
manage ambiguity, and perform efficiently in rapidly changing environments.
DUTIES : Line Management: Strategic management, advice and leadership in respect of
the following functional areas: Develop, implement, and oversee a provincial
spatial analysis and Geographical Information Systems (GIS) framework,
including provincial norms, standards, and harmonised spatial analysis
standards and procedures. Facilitate the integration and alignment of spatial
data analysis to support policy development, planning, and decision-making in
line with provincial strategic imperatives. Drive advocacy, capacity building,
and transversal GIS support to strengthen spatial analysis capabilities across
the province. Spearhead strategic partnerships and collaboration with
stakeholders across national government, local authorities, and private-sector
data users and producers to harmonise spatial data analysis and product
development to drive innovation. Strategic Management (including change
management): Define, review and drive the purpose, objectives, priorities and
activities of the Directorate including the development and management of its
strategic and business plans. Evaluate and report on the Directorate’s
performance against pre-determined objectives and standards, providing
regular updates to the Chief Director on important operational matters. Monitor
and ensure compliance with relevant legislation and prescripts regarding
record keeping of the Directorate’s activities and the resources (people,
finances and assets) employed. Foster and promote a culture of innovation
within the Directorate, and the Department, while diligently performing all
assigned duties attached to the post. People Management and Empowerment:
Recruit, develop, and retain staff in appropriate numbers and grades to achieve
the Directorate’s objectives. Motivate, train, and guide employees to achieve
excellence in service delivery. Manage performance, evaluation, and
development of staff. Oversee workforce planning, capacity building, and
service delivery improvement initiatives. Promote sound labour relations and
maintain discipline within the Directorate. Financial Management: Manage
participation in the Directorate budgeting process, including Annual and
Adjustment Budgets. Assume accountability for efficient, economic, and
effective management of the Directorate’s budget and expenditure. Ensure
adherence to procurement, tender, and contract management requirements.
Ensure alignment of expenditure with departmental and strategic objectives.
Report on financial matters to the Chief Director and relevant oversight
structures. Ensure appropriate risk management controls, asset management,
and record-keeping are in place and adhered to.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. Z Ishmail - Zeenat.Ishmail@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
250
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/350 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: APPOINTMENTS AND COMPENSATION REF NO:
DOTP 67/2026
SALARY : R932 292- R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B-Degree or
higher) in Human Resources/Industrial Psychology/ Public Management or
related qualification; A minimum of 3-years middle management experience in
a human resource management environment. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: National and Provincial instruments and legislation pertaining to
human resources management with specific reference to the Public Service
Amendment Act, Public Service Regulations and Labour Relations Act. Skills
in the following: People Management ; Excellent communication (verbal and
written); Ability to cope with repetitive tasks in a highly regulated environment;
Ability to analyse, conceptualise and implement policy; Ability to do complex
calculations; Advanced proficiency in MS Office, Monitoring, evaluation and
reporting, problem solving abilities and strong analytical skills, strong
organising and multitasking skills, attention to detail and accuracy, project
management skills, proficiency in Excel and presentation software, ability to
interpret HR metrics and data to drive informed decision-making and
continuous improvement.
DUTIES : Manage staff who perform the following functions: The appointment of
nominated candidates on PERSAL; The appointment of contract employees,
including contract extensions, developmental programme appointments (e.g.
internships); Promotions, transfers within or into the WCG, secondments and
acting appointments; Post upgrades, acting appointments and salary matters
such as over or under payments; Render compensation management services;
Perform managerial tasks with regard to the Sub-directorate which will entail:
Participation in the recruitment and selection of staff; Motivate, train and guide
staff; Manages the performance, evaluation and rewarding of staff; Monitor
information capacity building; Promote sound labour relations; Maintenance
discipline; Perform budgetary tasks; Give strategic direction to and manage
policy issues with regard to the functions of the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ben Reddy Tel No: (021) 483 9141
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
251
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 20/351 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE CONSULTING UNIT REF NO:
DOTP 42/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA - A 3 year National
Diploma (NQF 6)/Degree in Human Resource Management and/or Industrial
Psychology and 5 years or more experience in a Human Resource
Management environment. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Working experience with the legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and
best practices that have a bearing on the line functions: Knowledge and
understanding of information systems that aid in the management of
knowledge and information pertaining to the line function; Knowledge and
understanding of project management; Knowledge of operational management
practices; Knowledge and understanding of procurement and tendering
processes; Knowledge and understanding of policy development, and
operational management, monitoring and review processes; Knowledge and
understanding of modern systems of governance and administration;
Knowledge and understanding of public service procedures, processes and
systems.
DUTIES : Facilitates and administers probation and performance management,
communication thereof, training and information dissemination within
departments and track performance management events and activities against
the performance management timetable of the department and compile regular
progress reports; Facilitate, guide and administer the performance
agreements, quality assurance, assessments and moderation of Head of
Departments and senior managers as well as within; Provide training and
assist SMS members and other employees with PERMIS enquires; Provide a
performance advisory service, administrative and operational support to
people managers and employees for alignment of individual and departmental
performance results and liaise with other Departments (provincial and national)
on performance management and probation related matters; Provide a
performance advisory service and support people managers with performance
related consequence management, the management of poor performance,
incapacity, incapacity due to ill health, operational incapacity; Regularly provide
input, review and update policies, SOPs, methodologies for the Performance
Administration and Performance Consulting Unit; Manage and supervise staff.
Oversee and quality assure incapacity processes related to poor performance
across all employee categories ensuring compliance with policy and best
practice; Prepare and manage documentation for review and decision making
structures; Compile, verify and submit cases and reports for consideration by
relevant authorities; Provide administrative and technical support during review
panels, incapacity hearings, and related governance meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Greta Jansen Tel No: (021) 483 2750
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
252
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 20/352 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO: DOTP
61/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher qualification) A
minimum of 3 years' relevant supervisory-level experience in data
management, data quality, and data reporting and data dissemination
processes; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence; NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities but who have reasonable access to
transport may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge and experience in the
following: Performance monitoring, evaluation frameworks, results-based
management and Theory of Change for planning; Proficiency in data
management and data analytics; Proficiency in data analytics tools and
techniques, inclusive of Excel, Power BI and other statistical tools; Attention to
detail and commitment to quality assurance in data processes. Skills needed:
Report-writing and presentation; Strong problem-solving, analytical, and
critical-thinking; Ability to deliver under tight deadlines; Good interpersonal and
communication skills for effective stakeholder engagement; ability to work
independently and collaboratively in a team environment.
DUTIES : Analysis of performance data: Ensure the quality, accuracy, completeness and
reliability of performance data through robust quality assurance processes;
Analyse performance data to identify trends, gaps, and improvement
opportunities across programmes and service areas; Performance Reviews:
Undertake appraisal of performance data to generate robust insights and
evidence highlighting gaps and areas of improvement; Support evidence-
informed reviews to enhance decision-making, programme effectiveness and
overall service delivery improvement; Apply knowledge and understanding of
Theory of Change and Logic Models to strengthen programme performance
and design; Capacity Building: Build capacity across teams to improve data
quality, analytical skills and the effective use of performance information for
decision-making; Support a culture of data-driven learning and continuous
improvement to enhance service delivery outcomes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Barnard Tel No: (021) 483 4569.
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 20/353 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
DOTP 55/2025 R1
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA - A 3 year National
Diploma (NQF 6)/Degree in Human Resource Management and/or Industrial
Psychology and5 years or more experience in a Human Resource
Management environment Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Staff
Performance Management System; Monitoring and Coaching practices;
Human Resource Management; Constitution of RSA; Public Service Act and
253
Regulations; Employment Equity Act; Basic Conditions of Employment Act;
Labour Relations Act; White Paper on Transformation & Batho Pele Principals;
White Paper on Service Delivery in the Public Service; Skills Development Act;
Human Rights Practices; People Management; Skills Development Strategy of
the Public Service; Disciplinary Codes and Procedures; Collective
Agreements; SPMS; Public Finance Management Act. Skills needed:
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint etc); Ability
to work independently and as part of a team; Communication skill(written and
verbal);Leadership and Motivation skills; Research skills; Analytical skills;
Conceptual, interpretive and formulation skills; Planning and organising skills;
Project management skills; Innovative problem solving skills; Conflict
resolution skills; Negotiation skills; Influencing skills; Listening skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate and administer probation and performance management processes,
Including communication, training, and information dissemination within
departments. Monitor performance management activities against the
departmental timetable and compile regular progress reports. Facilitate, guide,
and oversee the development and administration of performance agreements,
including quality assurance, assessments, and moderation processes for
Heads of Department, Senior Management Service (SMS) members, and other
employees. Provide training and support to SMS members and employees on
PERMIS-related queries and processes. Deliver performance management
advisory services, as well as administrative and operational support to people
managers and employees, ensuring alignment between individual and
departmental performance outcomes. Liaise with provincial and national
departments on matters relating to performance management and probation.
Contribute to the development, review, and updating of policies, standard
operating procedures (SOPs), and methodologies for the Performance
Administration and Performance Consulting Unit. Manage and supervise staff
within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Buys Tel No: (021) 4834167
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 06 July 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/354 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER: REGIONAL OFFICE REF NO: DSD 39/2026
(POSTS AVAILABLE AT VARIOUS REGIONS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 009 512 – R1 154 271 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R1 200 894 – R1 414 59 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Formal tertiary qualification in Social Work (e.g. Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions (SACSSP); Compulsory registration with SACSSP as a
Social Worker; A minimum of 10 years appropriate/ recognisable experience in
social work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP.
254
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Analytic, diagnostic, assessment
tools, evaluation methods and processes (Social Work); Personnel
Management; Supervision Framework for Social Work profession; Social
Welfare and Community Development legislation related to children; Social
Welfare and Community Development theory and interventions; Information
and Knowledge Management; Protocol and professional ethics. Skills in the
following: Organising and planning; Project planning; Psycho social
intervention; Communication and language; People management practices;
Conflict management; Interpersonal; Report-writing; Computer literacy;
Presentation and facilitation; Problem solving and analytical; Client orientation
and customer focus.
DUTIES : Provide a Social Welfare and Community Development service of the highest,
most advanced and specialised nature within a defined area(s) of
specialisation with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
programmes in partnership with stakeholders. Attend to any other matters that
could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Facilitate the
development and planning of programmes and interventions to render a social
welfare and community development service through the efficient, economical
and effective utilisation of financial resources; Management of service delivery
area(s) (unit(s)) to ensure that an efficient and effective social welfare and
community development service is delivered through the efficient and effective
utilisation of human resources; Plan and ensure that social welfare and
community development research are undertaken; Undertake complex social
welfare and community development research. Perform and / or ensure that all
the administrative function required in the service delivery area(s) are
performed; Keep up to date with new developments in the Social Welfare and
Community Development field; Supervise all the administrative functions
required in the service delivery area(s) and undertake the higher level
administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Reenen Tel No: (021) 483 9392
POST 20/355 : MONITORING PRACTITIONER: OLDER PERSONS REF NO: DSD 55/2026
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year relevant experience. Competencies:
Working knowledge and understanding of the following: Legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions; Information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and
information pertaining to the line function; Project management; Operational
management practices; Policy development, and operational management,
monitoring and review processes; Modern systems of governance and
administration; Public service procedures, processes and systems;
Functioning of the Province and the activities of sister departments/related
functional areas; Performance management in general; Procurement and
tendering processes; Regional and local political, economic and social affairs
impacting on the provincial government of the Western Cape; Constitutional,
legal and institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector;
Public finance, human resources and discourse management processes;
Public Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury
Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective
agreements; Policies of the government of the day; Labour Relations
legislation and regulations. Skills in the following: Numeracy; Computer
Literacy; Language skills; Project management, basic finance, governance and
human resources procedures; Delivering results and meeting customer
expectations; Following instructions and procedures; Relating and networking;
Writing and reporting; Analysing; Planning and Organising; Working with
people; Persuading and influencing.
DUTIES : Provide input into the development of monitoring and review systems; Conduct
financial and governance assessments for existing and new Non-profit
organisations (NPO’s); Monitor and review services rendered by the NPO in
line with the Provincial / National policy frameworks; Administer Non-financial
data (NFD) process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Damon Tel No: (021) 483 4935
255
POST 20/356 : EDUCATION OFFICER: EDUCATION REF NO. DSD 72/2025 R1 (POSTS
AVAILABLE IN VARIOUS LOCATIONS)
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year post-school qualification; Registration with SACE as a
professional educator; A minimum of 3 years experience as an Educationalist/
Educator; A valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities
that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may
also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Applicable policies and
procedures; Public service procedures; Labour Relations; Financial
Management; Project Management; Interpret and apply policies and
procedures. Skills needed: Problem solving, sound budgeting, planning,
facilitation, influencing and interpersonal relations; Written and verbal
communication; Planning and organising; Learning and researching; Relating
and networking; Adapting and responding to change; Adhering to principles
and values; Analysing.
DUTIES : Implement Educational Programmes at Facilities in Accordance with
Curriculum Requirements and Departmental Legislation; Implement facility
policies and procedures to enhance safe care/custody and development of
residents (MDT, incident reporting, behaviour management, unauthorised
articles, etc.); Perform administrative functions; Continuous Professional
Development: Keep up to date with new developments in the social work and
social welfare fields.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Jonkerman Tel No: (021) 826 6040
POST 20/357 : SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD 38/2026
(POSTS AVAILABLE AT VARIOUS LOCATIONS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R338 208 - R397 668 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R413 004 - R478 395 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R496 668 - R583 833 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R608 859 - R754 785 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Social Work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as Social Worker; Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a Social Worker; Grade 1: No
experience; Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years
appropriate experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Supervision Framework for Social Workers;
Human behaviour and social systems and skills to intervene at the points
where people interact with their environments in order to promote social well-
being; Social work theory and interventions; Information and Knowledge
Management; Protocol and professional ethics; Relevant legislations, policies
and prescripts (norms and standards); Social dynamics, work values and
principles; Developing and empowering others. Skills in the following:
Challenge structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination
and exclusion; Written and verbal communication; Report-writing; Self-
management; Motivation; Good planning and organizing; Problem solving and
analytical; Computer literacy; Presentation and facilitation; Client orientation
and customer focus; Ability and competence to assist, develop, advocate for,
and empower individuals, families, groups, organisations and communities to
enhance their social functioning and their problem-solving capabilities; Ability
to promote, restore, maintain, advocate for and enhance the functioning of
individuals, families, groups and communities by enabling them to accomplish
tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources effectively;
Understanding and ability to provide social work services towards protecting
people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect themselves; Ability to
mentor and coach Social Workers Grade 1.
DUTIES : Render a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
256
through the relevant programmes (Case work, group work and Community
work). Attend to any other matters that could result in, or stem from, social
instability in any form; Supervise and Support Social Auxiliary Workers;
Continuous Professional Development. Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work and social welfare fields; Perform all the
administrative functions required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Swart Tel No: (021) 763 621
POST 20/358 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: BANKING AND CASH MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DSD 42/2026
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior certificate or equivalent qualification. Competencies: Working
knowledge of the following: Basic knowledge of financial functions, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate financial
statistics; Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial
legislations, procedures and Treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR,
PPPFA, Financial Manual); Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (
PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS). Skills needed: Written and verbal communication
skills; Proven computer literacy; Numeracy skills; Planning and organising
skills; Ability to perform routine tasks; Ability to operate office equipment’s;
Ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : Render Financial Accounting transactions; Receive invoices; Check invoices
for correctness, verification and approval (internal control); Process invoices
(e.g. capture payments); Filling of all documents; Collection of cash; Perform
salary administration support services; Receive salary advices; Process
advices (e.g. check advices for correctness, capture salaries, bonuses, salary
adjustments, capture all deductions); Perform bookkeeping support services;
Capture all financial transactions; Clear suspense accounts; Record debtors
and creditors; Process electronic banking transactions; Compile journals;
Receive and capture cash payments..
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Bernadette Dyani Tel No: (021) 483 9448
POST 20/359 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
22/2026 R1 (VARIOUS POSTS AVAILABLE IN VARIOUS LOCATIONS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R200 691 - R227 145 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R236 385 - R269 742 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R280 809 - R353 016 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the SAW learnership to allow registration
with the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as
Social Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary
Worker; A valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African social welfare context: the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Uses appropriate resources
in service delivery to client systems; Implement appropriate social auxiliary
work methods and techniques to address the social needs of client systems;
Information and Knowledge Management (Keep precise records and compile
accurate reports on social needs and social auxiliary work activities and file
them appropriately; Protocol and professional ethics.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Rebe Tel No: (021) 812 0923
257
POST 20/360 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
40/2026 (X2 POSTS IN SWARTLAND)
SALARY : Grade 1: R200 691 - R227 145 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R236 385 - R269 742 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R280 809 - R353 016 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the SAW learnership to allow registration
with the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as
Social Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary
Worker; A valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Implement
appropriate social auxiliary work methods and techniques to address the social
needs of client systems; Basic knowledge of financial matters related to social
auxiliary work; Uses appropriate resources in service delivery to client systems;
Information and Knowledge Management (Keep precise records and compile
accurate reports on social needs and social auxiliary work activities and file
them appropriately); Protocol and professional ethics. Skills in the following:
Good communication (written and verbal); Proven computer literacy;
Organising and planning; Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem
solving and analytical; Client orientation and customer focus; Work effectively
with social workers and members of multi-sectoral teams in social service
delivery.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Koen Tel No: (021) 840 3500
POST 20/361 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES (REF NO: DSD
41/2026 (X2 POSTS IN CEDERBERG AND SALDAHNA)
SALARY : Grade 1: R200 691 - R227 145 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R236 385 - R269 742 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 3: R280 809 - R353 016 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 10 plus completion of the SAW learnership to allow registration
with the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as
Social Auxiliary Worker; Registration with the SACSSP as Social Auxiliary
Worker; A valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African Social Welfare context the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Implement
appropriate social auxiliary work methods and techniques to address the social
needs of client systems; Basic knowledge of financial matters related to social
auxiliary work; Uses appropriate resources in service delivery to client systems;
Information and Knowledge Management (Keep precise records and compile
accurate reports on social needs and social auxiliary work activities and file
them appropriately); Protocol and professional ethics. Skills in the following:
Good communication (written and verbal); Proven computer literacy;
Organising and planning; Presentation and facilitation; Report writing; Problem
solving and analytical; Client orientation and customer focus; Work effectively
with social workers and members of multi-sectoral teams in social service
delivery.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
258
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Koen Tel No: (021) 840 3500.
WESTERN CAPE MOBILITY DEPARTMENT
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 20/362 : HEAD OF DEPARTMENT: MOBILITY REF NO: WCMD 10/2026
5-Year Contract
SALARY : R1 885 710 per annum (Level 15), all-inclusive salary package, plus a 10%
non-pensionable HOD allowance. Note: The remuneration package consists of
a basic salary (70%) and the employer’s contribution to the Pension Fund.
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 8 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum
of 10 years of experience at a senior managerial level. Successful completion
of the Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management Service) prior to
appointment: The nominated candidate will be required to complete the Senior
Management Pre-entry Programme (Nyukela) before the candidate can be
appointed into this post. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Technical
knowledge and experience in the transport, freight and logistics sectors.
Proven knowledge of and working experience with the legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
function. Proven leadership experience – strong background in the public
sector, infrastructure, transport, or urban mobility. Visionary thinking – the
ability to develop and execute innovative policies. Collaboration skills –
experience working across government and private sectors. Commitment to
service delivery – a results driven approach to solving complex challenges.
Knowledge of sustainability trends – awareness of global best practices in
green mobility. Proven knowledge and understanding of information systems
that aid in the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line
function. Proven knowledge and understanding of programme and project
management. Proven knowledge and understanding of procurement and
tendering processes. Proven knowledge and understanding of policy
development, and strategy management, monitoring and review processes.
Proven knowledge and understanding of modern systems of governance and
administration. Proven knowledge and understanding of public service
procedures, processes and systems. Proven knowledge and understanding of
the global, regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting
on the provincial government of the Western Cape. Proven knowledge and
understanding of Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing
the South African public sector. Proven knowledge and understanding of public
finance, human resources and discourse management processes. Proven
knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance Management Act, National
and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts,
directives and collective agreements. Proven knowledge and understanding of
the functioning of the province and the activities of sister departments. Proven
knowledge and understanding of the policies of the government of the day.
Proven knowledge and understanding of Labour Relations legislation and
regulations. Proven knowledge and understanding of performance
management in general. Skills in the following: Strategic and conceptual
thinking in complex environments. Executive-level advisory and
communication skills. Project and programme management. Ability to translate
business requirements into technical solutions. Strong leadership, planning,
organising, and people management skills. High-level computer literacy and
digital workplace expertise.
DUTIES : Line Management: Ensure the delivery of an integrated mobility system in the
Western Cape which includes the: Establishment and maintenance of strategic
partnerships with the different spheres of government, SOE’s, NGO’S and the
Private Sector. Strategic coordination and facilitation of the integration of public
transport with relevant stakeholders. Strategic planning and rendering of
effective services in the different modes of transport. Lead strategic
development and implementation of mobility policies and strategies across the
province. Ensure the regulation of transport services. Ensure the rendering of
effective services with regard to adjudication, issuing and cancelation of
operating licenses, registration of public transport entities and members and
259
the handling of mediation, conflicts and disputes. Manage vehicle
administration and licensing. Ensure the rendering of an effective traffic law
enforcement service, provision of training to traffic police agencies, provision
of education awareness to stakeholders and the development and
implementation of District Safety Plans. Champion innovation in public
transport, freight and logistics network and road safety strategies Provide
government motor transport services. Ensure the rendering of fleet services
and ensure effective financial management services for GMT. Strategic
Management (including change management): Define and review on a
continual basis the purpose, objectives, priorities and activities of the
Department. Build strong partnerships with national, provincial and local
spheres of government, private sector, civil society and international partners.
Drive the Departments’ strategy. Drive the development and management of
the strategic and business plans for the Department. Evaluate the performance
of the Department on a continuing basis against pre-determined key
measurable objectives and standards. Report to the Provincial Minister on a
regular basis on the activities of the Department and on matters of substantial
importance relating to Strategic management support. Monitor and ensure
compliance with relevant legislation and prescripts in respect of adequate and
appropriate record keeping of the activities of the Department and of the
resources (people, finances and assets) employed by it. People Management
and Empowerment: Participate in the recruitment of employees in the numbers
and grades appropriate to ensure the achievement of the Department’s
Business Plan. Motivate, train and guide employees within the Department, to
achieve and maintain excellence in service delivery. Actively manage the
performance, evaluation and rewarding of employees within the Department.
Ensure involvement in the compilation of a workforce plan, a service delivery
improvement programme, and an information resources plan for the
Department. Financial Management: Manage participation in the budgeting
process of the Department. Ensure the preparation of the Annual and
Adjustment Budgets for the Department. Assume direct accountability for the
efficient, economic and effective control and management of the Department’s
budget and expenditure. Assume direct accountability for ensuring that the
correct tender and procurement procedures are adhered to in respect of
purchases for the Department. Assume direct accountability for ensuring
contracts are managed effectively and efficiently for the Department. Ensure
that all spending is aligned with the strategic objectives of the Department.
Report to the Provincial Minister and relevant oversight role layers/committees
on all aspects of the Department’s finances. Assume overall accountability for
the management, maintenance and safekeeping of the Departments assets.
Assume direct accountability for ensuring that appropriate risk management
procedures are in place and adhered to or the Department. Ensure that full and
proper records of the financial affairs of the Department are kept in accordance
with any prescribed norms and standards. Drive the reduction of green gas
emissions to promote low-carbon transport systems in line with global
sustainability goals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Esterhuyse - Louise.Esterhuyse@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
260
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 06 July 2026
OTHER POSTS
POST 20/363 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SERVICES (GMT
FLEET FINANCE) REF NO: WCMD 41/2025 R1
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-degree (equivalent or higher qualification) in financial
accounting; a minimum of 3 years of supervisory experience in financial
accounting or a similar working environment; a valid driving licence (Code B or
higher).NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have
reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of
the following: Financial norms and standards; financial delegations,
procedures, and instructions; Standard Chart of Accounts (SCOA). Skills
needed: Computer literacy in the MS Office package (Word, Excel, and
PowerPoint); written and verbal communication; numerical; systematic
approach.
DUTIES : Maintain programmes to maintain the Standard Chart of Accounts (SCOA);
Prepare financial reports; Accounting for assets, liabilities, revenue,
expenditure, budget statement, disclosure notes and accounting policies;
Regulatory, policy, governance frameworks and tactical advice; Change
management in operating and systematic processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Y Gqamlana Tel No: (021) 467 4792
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 06 July 2026
POST 20/364 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: INTERNAL CONTROL REF NO: WCMD 12/2026
SALARY : R413 -001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/ B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Internal Auditing; A minimum of 1-year relevant experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Legislative framework governing
261
the Public Service; Departmental accounting services; Public Service financial
legislations, procedures and processes, National Treasury Regulations,
Provincial Treasury Instructions, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
1999, (DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual); Financial functions and
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate
financial statistics. General information support systems such as Oracle and
ECM; State accountant duties and practices, as well as the ability to capture
data, operate computer and collecting statistics; Working procedures in terms
of the working environment; Project management; Public service procedures,
processes and systems; Skills needed: Proven computer literacy; Written and
verbal communication; Accounting, Finance and audit; Economic, Financial
and Statistical Analysis; Legal administration: planning and organising.
Problem-solving; report writing, record keeping, and interpersonal relations.
Flexibility; Teamwork; Accuracy; Aptitude of Figures; Ability to perform routine
tasks; Ability to operate office equipment; Ability to work under pressure;
willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines.
DUTIES : Review processes and procedures to ensure that the Accounting Officer’s
system of internal control is implemented and maintained in the trading entity.
Review processes and procedures to ensure that the Human Resource
Delegations are implemented and maintained in the trading entity. Review
automated and manual internal control processes and make recommendations
for business improvement; Update and maintain input of the Departmental
Corporate Governance Implementation Plan for the trading entity. Review the
implementation of financial-related systems and procedures during projects.
Ensure the integration of governance in relation to financial, accounting,
Management Accounting and SCM. Advise on policy, norms and standards and
SOP’s of the trading entity. Ensure that policies, processes and procedures,
norms and standards are maintained Assist with input required by the Western
Cape Mobility Department and other bodies related to internal control
procedures. Assistance in management of internal and external audit
processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Ismail Tel No: (021) 467 4755.
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 06 July 2026
POST 20/365 : MESSENGER: OFFICE SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: WCMD 11/2026
SALARY : R144 024 - R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 Certificate or equivalent; A valid code B driving license
Competencies: Numeracy skills; Sound organising skills; Good people skills;
Client-oriented and customer focus; Written and verbal communication;
Operating Equipment.
DUTIES : Perform messenger functions; Sort and arrange correspondences in the
registry; Collect, distribute and circulate correspondences (e.g. mail, parcels,
documents and files);Record and control correspondence register; Sort mail,
files, documents and parcels; Ensure that items to collect are sealed and
addressed; Collect mail, files, documents and parcels from addressor; Deliver
mail, files, documents and parcels to addressees; Ensure that the recipients
262
sign on the delivery book/register; Record contents and physical addresses in
the delivery book/register; Perform general office assistant task; Make copies,
fax and shred documents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Shirley Theys Tel No: (021) 467 8729
APPLICATIONS : To apply, please complete an application form (Z 83) and current CV (5 pages
maximum). The post being applied for and the reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 application form. To submit your application, there
are 3 methods in which you can apply, please only use 1 of the following:
1. Hand deliver your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs,
44 Gannet Street Pelican Heights, Cape Town (From Monday to Friday
between 07:00am to 17:00pm); Or
2. Post your application for Attention: Western Cape Government Jobs, PO
Box 22432, Fish Hoek, 7974, Or
3. Email your application to, westerncape@respond.co.za Clearly indicate the
reference number of post in email subject line and ensure attachments are in
the appropriate format (MS Word or PDF).
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered. Applications not submitted on or before the
closing date as well as faxed copies will not be considered. If you did not
receive any correspondence within 3 months of closing date, consider your
application as unsuccessful. NB: Applicants from relevant local communities
will receive preferences. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets
of the employing department.
CLOSING DATE : 06 July 2026
263