PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 14 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 24 APRIL 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the
advertisements of vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the
Department is not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an
advertisement must be addressed to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the
department in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST
PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration
must not be approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the
applicable closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies.
Potential candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies
and attending where applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998
should be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote
representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding
the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENT : DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE: Kindly note that the following posts advertised
in Public Service Vacancy Circular 15 dated 17 April 2026 with a closing date
of 05 May 2026 have been amended, as follows, Provisioning Admin Clerk with
Ref No: SAAFCOL/12/13/26/02 have been amended to two posts, Provisioning
Admin Clerk (X2 Posts) with Ref No: SAAFCOL/12/13/26/02. The Posts of
Registry Clerk Production (X2 Posts) with Ref No: SAAFCOL/12/13/26/01,
have been withdrawn from the advertisement.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 03 - 05
CENTRE FOR PUBLIC SERVICE INNOVATION B 06 - 07
COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE C 08 - 11
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR D 12 - 18
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT E 19 - 20
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM F 21 - 22
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE G 23 - 26
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING H 27 - 28
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY I 29 - 39
OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION J 40 - 45
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE K 46 - 50
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT L 51 - 52
TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION M 53 - 56
TRANSPORT N 57 - 61
TREASURY O 62 - 66
WATER AND SANITATION P 67 - 74
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE Q 75 - 93
GAUTENG R 94 - 96
KWAZULU NATAL S 97 - 105
MPUMALANGA T 106 - 113
WESTERN CAPE U 114 - 136
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
CLOSING DATE : 12 May 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview, the selection
committee will recommend candidates for a generic management competency
assessment, as per the Department of public Service and Administration
(DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’ managerial
competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false or
fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications.
Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting presentively and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/01 : AUXILIARY SERVICES OFFICER REF NO: 3/3/1/22/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Genetics Resources
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria (Roodeplaat: Variety Control)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate. No experience.
DUTIES : Plant seeds and seedlings for evaluation of new plant varieties in terms of the
Plant Breeders Rights Act and Plant Improvement Act. Plant seeds/seedlings
in seedling trays/plant bags/ pots in the greenhouse/ field. Group seedling trays
according to randomization. Sprays insecticide/ fungicide in the greenhouse.
Apply fertilizers in the field. Plant seeds in identified rows in the field. Re-insert
plant markets in the trial field. Label plant markets for trade and post control,
3
seedling trays/field trials. Provide administrative and technical services for
Distinctness, Uniformity & Stability (DUS) evaluations. Monitor and provide
report of trials. Count numbers of plants per row in trials. Take measurements
of plants/plant parts on selected varieties. Record measurements in the
relevant UPOV datasheet. Maintain the filling system. Mark label/ packets,
harvest and thrash selected material. Operate irrigation system. Process seed
of standard varieties. Retrieve seeds of identified varieties from cold store.
Weigh seed and divide seed into seed packets. Label seed packets (varieties
denomination, trial number, row number). Randomize seeds. Distribute seed
packets as required (e.g. for cold room, greenhouse, field trials). Assist with
general maintenance of the farm. Routine activities in respect of crop
production. Cleaning of buildings and stores. Maintenance of irrigation
systems. Maintenance of farmyard.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S.J Ndlazi Tel No: (012) 319 6086/ 076 460 4582
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ASOrecruit22@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: Coloured and White Males and African Females and Persons with
disability.
POST 14/02 : FARM AID REF NO: 3/3/1/23/2026 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Genetics Resources
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria (Roodeplaat: Variety Control)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a NQF Level 1 or 2 (Abet level 2/3 certificate
or equivalent). No experience is required.
DUTIES : Perform general activities in respect of crop production through inter alia the
following: Irrigation of crops. Soil cultivation and preparation e.g. cleaning,
hoeing, etc. Apply chemical crop protection e.g. operate a knapsack sprayer.
Reaping, grading, weighing, packing and storage of farm produce. Tending of
crops / orchards / vineyards e.g. pruning, weeding etc. Perform general
activities which would include, inter alia, the following: Cleaning of facilities.
Disposal of farm waste material. Maintain equipment e.g. cleaning. Oiling.
Sharpening etc. Firefighting and prevention. Loading / off-loading of farm
supplies. Perform general activities in respect of infrastructure which would
include, inter alia the following: Maintain fences, shade houses and
greenhouses. Maintain irrigation and water supply systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BM Maroga Tel No: (012) 319 6086
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
FArecruit23@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Females and Persons with disability.
POST 14/03 : TRADESMAN AID REF NO 3/3/1/24/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Animal Health
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga: Hectorspruit
REQUIREMENTS : ABET/Basic Education. No experience required. Job Related Knowledge:
Repair and maintenance and patrol roads. Firefighting. Signs of animal
disease. Animal tracking. Job Related Skills: Basic numeracy skills and basic
literacy skills. Work overtime and during weekends. Exposure to wild animals.
Exposure to extreme weather conditions.
DUTIES : Repair breakages and replace stolen sections of fence. Remove trees, weeds
and tall grasses along the fence and patrol roads and apply herbicides as
required. Maintenance and repair of the patrol road and drainage trenches.
Firefighting and prevention of fire along the fence. Prevent/deter trans-
boundary movement of animal diseases. Daily patrol and inspection of disease
control fence for breakages. Quarantine all illegal animals. Safe disposal of
carcasses found along the fence. Daily patrol of gates on the disease control
fences. Care for quarantined livestock. Maintenance and safeguarding of
Departmental assets and consumables. Safekeeping of fencing materials and
equipment. Maintenance of fencing equipment. Cleaning the storeroom and
office. Wash departmental car. Communicate and report unwanted activities in
the boundary area. Liaison with local community, farmers, security cluster.
Routine feedback to supervisor. Immediate reporting of illegal movement of
animals or signs of animal disease to supervisor. Reporting of illegal non-
animal related activities to security cluster.
4
ENQUIRIES : Mr Thabo Motsisi at 072 198 5067
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
TMArecruit24@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: Coloured, Indian, White Males and African, Coloured, White
Females and Persons with disability.
POST 14/04 : TRADESMAN AID REF NO 3/3/1/25/2026 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Animal Health
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Limpopo: Phalaborwa
REQUIREMENTS : ABET/Basic Education. No experience required. Job Related Knowledge:
Repair and maintenance and patrol roads. Firefighting. Signs of animal
disease. Animal tracking. Job Related Skills: Basic numeracy skills and basic
literacy skills. Work overtime and during weekends. Exposure to wild animals.
Exposure to extreme weather conditions.
DUTIES : Repair breakages and replace stolen sections of fence. Remove trees, weeds
and tall grasses along the fence and patrol roads and apply herbicides as
required. Maintenance and repair of the patrol road and drainage trenches.
Firefighting and prevention of fire along the fence. Prevent/deter trans-
boundary movement of animal diseases. Daily patrol and inspection of disease
control fence for breakages. Quarantine all illegal animals. Safe disposal of
carcasses found along the fence. Daily patrol of gates on the disease control
fences. Care for quarantined livestock. Maintenance and safeguarding of
Departmental assets and consumables. Safekeeping of fencing materials and
equipment. Maintenance of fencing equipment. Cleaning the storeroom and
office. Wash departmental car. Communicate and report unwanted activities in
the boundary area. Liaison with local community, farmers, security cluster.
Routine feedback to supervisor. Immediate reporting of illegal movement of
animals or signs of animal disease to supervisor. Reporting of illegal non-
animal related activities to security cluster.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lesetja Malebana at 066 0846788
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
TMArecruit25@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: Coloured, Indian, White Males and African, Coloured, White
Females and Persons with disability.
POST 14/05 : GENERAL WORKER REF NO: 3/3/1/26/2026
Directorate: Animal Health
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga: Skukuza
REQUIREMENTS : ABET/Basic Education. Job Related Work Experience: Previous experience
working with wild and large animals is recommended. Job Related Knowledge:
Public Service Regulation. Procurement procedures. PFMA. Planning and
organizing. Cultural diversity. Health and safety. Job Related Skills: Good
communication skills. Planning, Interpersonal skills, Problem solving,
Interpretation, Analytical, Listening skills. Extended working hours.
DUTIES : Clean relevant workstations and disposal of infections material. Cleaning of
predator cages, stables and bomas. Removal of bedding and washing floors
and walls of animal holding facilities. Maintain biosecurity standards at
workstation. Operating incinerator, incineration of refuse/waste and recording
the disposal of items. Caring for animals/birds being accommodated and
reporting problems. Supplying of correct food stuff to animals in quarantine.
Rapid reporting of illness. Daily recording health parameters. Basic animal
husbandry. Maintenance of quarantine grounds/gardens and the perimeter
fence. Mowing lawns, trimming edges and removing vegetation from fences.
Removal of wate and foreign objects from premises. Daily inspection of electric
fence ensuring proper functioning. Assisting with clinical work and necropsies.
Assist with game capture operations. Carrying implements and equipment’s
and equipment. Assist with necropsies and carcass incineration.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Linmarie de Klerk-Lorist Tel No: (013) 735 9082
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
GWrecruit26@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: Coloured, Indian, White Males and African, Coloured, White
Females and Persons with disability.
5
ANNEXURE B
CENTRE FOR PUBLIC SERVICE INNOVATION
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted on CPSI eRecruitment
(https://erecruitment.cpsi.co.za). This link address is only for the CPSI
applications. Emailed or hand-delivered/posted/couriered applications will not
be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 14 May @ 23h59. Submission of applications received after the closing date
will not be considered.
NOTE : The CPSI is a National Government Component listed in Part A of Schedule 3
of the Public Service Act, reporting to the Minister for the Public Service and
Administration (MPSA). The CPSI’s vision is to enable a solution-focused,
effective, and efficient public sector, and is playing a leading and catalytic role
with regard to Public Service reform and transformation through innovation. It
aims to entrench the culture and practice of innovation in public service through
developing new solutions and unearthing existing innovations for learning and
replication. In order to perform this purpose, the CPSI performs the following
functions: (1) Providing the Minister (and his portfolio organisations) with
independent, diverse, and forward-looking advice and research, as well as
partnerships that enhance Public Service innovation. (2) Creating an enabling
environment that nurtures, supports, and encourages innovation within the
South African Government. (3) Initiating, implementing, and managing self-
sustainable innovation projects in partnership with other government
institutions, the private sector, and other relevant stakeholders. (4)
Implementing special projects that are mandated by the Minister from time to
time. It is the intention to promote re-presentively in the CPSI through the filling
of this position. Applicants should note that the information required on the new
form Z83 (obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za/document) will be uploaded onto the system during the application
process, whereafter a form will be generated. Applicants thus do not have to
upload a completed and signed new Z83 form. Do, however, note that failure
to upload ALL required information onto the system may lead to disqualification
of the application during the selection process. By submitting your application,
you also consent to the Centre for Public Service Innovation (the CPSI)
processing your information for Human Resources Management purposes. It
is the applicant’s responsibility to have all their foreign qualifications (this
includes O and A level certificates) evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at their own expense. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview, as communicated by Human Resources. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements, and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks, criminal and credit
checks). The SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign
qualifications (only when shortlisted). Applicants could also be required to
provide consent for access to their social media accounts. Reference checks
will be done during the selection process. The successful candidate will be
expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement
within three (3) months of appointment, as well as completing a financial
interest declaration within one month of appointment and annually thereafter.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only, if you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the department cannot meet any
travel and subsistence costs relating to recruitment processes, or relocation
and resettlement costs for shortlisted and successful candidates. CPSI
reserves the right not to fill the above-mentioned posts, withdraw, or put a
position on hold, and/or to re-advertise a post. The CPSI is compliant with the
requirements of POPIA.
6
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/06 : ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR: SYSTEM DEVELOPER REF NO: 0001/2026
(X3 POSTS)
One (1)-year contract
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12 certificate. A recognised National Diploma (NQF
level 6) qualification in Software and Systems Development. Knowledge of the
software development lifecycle and developer ecosystems. Knowledge of
programming languages, knowledge of web development. Knowledge of
software development and coding languages such as C#, .NET. Excellent
planning and organising skills. Computer literacy (Microsoft Office Suite).
Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Ability to work under
pressure. Personal Profile: Ability to set and meet deadlines. Must have strong
interpersonal skills, demonstrate sound work ethics, and be honest, respectful,
and trustworthy. Client orientation and customer focus. Understands the
importance of maintaining the confidentiality of sensitive employee information.
Good verbal and written communication skills. Ability to communicate with
internal and external partners. Good interpersonal, presentation, coordination,
computer, and report-writing skills.
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient support to senior system developers. Assist in
the development of software solutions and systems. Assist with system
administration functions. Provide technical support for CPSI projects and
related initiatives. Assist with user training. Provide minute-taking support for
projects related to the System Developer Unit. Willingness to travel and work
outside normal working hours when required.
ENQUIRIES : Human Resource Practitioner Tel No: (012) 683 2805/17/00
POST 14/07 : ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR: DESKTOP SUPPORT REF NO: 0002/2026
One (1)-Year contract
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/Grade 12 certificate. A recognised National Diploma (NQF
level 6) in ICT or equivalent. Knowledge in IT service support-related
competencies, including cloud hosting (added advantage). Knowledge in ICT
Service Desk and/or ICT Incident Management, knowledge of server support
and network administration. Knowledge of technical, hardware, and software
support. Good understanding of network types, including LAN, WAN, and
point-to-point. Knowledge of firewalls, endpoint security, and security
gateways. Ability to work under pressure. Personal Profile: Ability to set and
meet deadlines. Must have strong interpersonal skills. Demonstrate sound
work ethics and be honest, respectful, and trustworthy. Client orientation and
customer focus. Understands the importance of maintaining the confidentiality
of sensitive employee information. Good verbal and written communication
skills. Ability to communicate with internal and external stakeholders. Good
interpersonal, presentation, coordination, computer, and report-writing skills.
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient support to the ICT unit. Assist in the day-to-day
ICT operations and infrastructure support. Support the organisation’s ICT and
cybersecurity environments. Ensure adherence to and implementation of ITM-
related policies and procedures. Provide minute-taking support for the ICT
project related to the unit. Willingness to travel outside normal working hours
when required.
ENQUIRIES : Human Resource Practitioner Tel No: (012) 683 2805/17/00
7
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE
The vision of the Department of Cooperative Governance is one of having a well co-ordinated system of
Government consisting of National, Provincial and Local spheres working together to achieve
sustainable development and service delivery. The Department intends to invest in human capital,
increase integrated technical capacity directed at service delivery and promote representivity in the
Department through the filling of these posts. The candidature of persons whose
appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representivity will therefore receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 13 May 2026
NOTE : Applicants are advised that a new application for employment (Z83) has been
in effect since 1 January 2021. The new application for employment form can
be downloaded at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications
submitted using the old Z83 form will not be accepted. Applications must be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV, with specific starting and ending dates
in all relevant positions and clarity on the levels and ranks pertaining to
experience, as well as current remuneration package, as well as at least 2
contactable references. A recommended CV template is available on the
department’s website on www.cogta.gov.za, click on the jobs tab. Only
shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit certified documents/ copies
on or before the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Incomplete applications or applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the
interview and technical exercise(s), the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Core competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership.
People management and empowerment. Advanced programme and project
management. Change management. Financial management. Process
Competencies: Knowledge management. Service Delivery Innovation.
Advanced problem-solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer
focus. Advanced communication skills (written and verbal). The successful
candidate will be appointed to positive results of a pre-employment screening
process which includes criminal, credit, citizenship checks and verification of
educational qualification certificates. The successful candidate will be
appointed to probation for a period of 12 months and will be required to sign a
performance agreement. It is important to note that it is the applicant’s
responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments in support of the
application are submitted by the due date. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right to make
an appointment. The requirements for appointment at Senior Management
Service level include the successful completion of Senior Management Pre-
entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, which
can be accessed using the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Candidates must provide proof of
successful completion of the course prior to appointment. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/08 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE GRANTS REF NO:CD:
MIG
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate degree in the Built Environment or equivalent qualification
(NQF 7 as recognised by SAQA). A post graduate qualification in the Built
Environment (NQF level 8) will be an added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’
8
experience at senior management level in a related field. Proficiency in MS
Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint. The Nyukela Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme is to be completed before appointment to the post. A valid driver’s
license. Intensive travelling. Core Competencies: Strategic capacity and
leadership. People Management and Empowerment. Programme and project
management. Financial management. Change management. Knowledge
management. Service delivery innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Client
orientation and customer focus. Communication (verbal and written). Technical
Competencies: Extensive knowledge in: Both government and private sector
infrastructure development approaches. Economic Infrastructure
Development. Public Private Partnerships Framework. Development Finance
Frameworks. Development of Master Plans, Preventative Maintenance Plans.
Intergovernmental Relations. Local Economic Development. Poverty
Eradication and Job creation.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Oversee the
development of policy including Municipal Infrastructure Framework,
coordination and reporting on infrastructure grants through intergovernmental
structures. Oversee the development of infrastructure master plans to guide
long-term infrastructure delivery plans of municipalities. Provide strategic guide
for strengthening implementation and provision of basic municipal services and
infrastructure in local government. Oversee the development of alternative
infrastructure financing models. Monitor and administer the infrastructure
grants expenditure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Van Wyk at 064 850 8845
For application enquiries contact: Vanessa Cox Tel No: (010) 593 1998
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
cd_mig@ntirho.co.za
POST 14/09 : DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL PROPERTY VALUATION REF NO: DMPV05
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Property Studies, Real Estates, Property
Evaluation and Management or equivalent qualification at NQF 7 as
recognised by SAQA. 5 years of experience at a middle/ senior managerial
level in the Property Valuation field. Proficient in Micro-Software Office
packages (MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Teams, MS Excel and Outlook etc.)
Other: The Nyukela Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme is to be
completed before appointment to the post. A valid driver’s license. Extensive
travelling. Registration as a Professional Valuer in terms of Property Valuers
Profession Act, 2000 (Act 47 of 2000). Core Competencies: Strategic capacity
and leadership. People Management and Empowerment. Programme and
project management. Financial management. Change management.
Knowledge management. Service delivery innovation. Problem solving and
analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Communication (verbal and
written). Technical Competencies: In-depth knowledge of: MPRA and
provisions of any legislation that must be considered in valuing specific
properties. Valuation principles and techniques. Undertaking valuations of all
types of properties. Mass appraisal techniques and processes. Ability to create
and analyse datasets. Geographical Information Systems (GIS).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Provide directions
on the development of guidelines / circulars / regulations and / or amendments
to the MPRA. Oversee the monitoring and support of municipal compliance
with the provisions of the Municipal Property Rates Act (MPRA) in respect of
the preparation of valuation and supplementary valuation rolls. Oversee the
investigation and issuing of a public report on the effectiveness, consistency,
uniformity and application of municipal valuations for rates purposes with
respect to selected municipalities. Oversee the monitoring and support
provincial departments responsible for local government on the valuation
aspects of the MPRA vested with provinces. Oversee the research and
development in the professional valuation field for continuous improvement /
enhancement where required considering critical decisions of Valuation Appeal
Boards and international developments in the property valuation field.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Naidoo at 064 752 5617
For application enquiries contact: Sphamandla Ndlovu Tel No: (011) 763 1103
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
response1@multilead.co.za
9
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/10 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
REF NO: DDLCDP07
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-Year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Development Planning /
Economics or equivalent qualification at NQF 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 3-5
years’ experience in a related field. Proficient in Micro-Software Office
packages (MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Teams, MS Excel and Outlook etc.)
Other: A valid driver’s license. Extensive travelling. Generic Competencies:
Planning and organizing. Coordination. Problem solving and decision making.
Project management. People management and empowerment. Client
orientation and customer focus. Team leadership. Diversity management.
Communication (verbal and written). Technical Competencies: In-depth
knowledge of: Local Economic Development Policy and Practice. Urban
Development Policy and Practice. Intergovernmental and Municipal
Development Planning Policy and Practice. Public Administration.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage linkages
between macro-economic policy, micro economic reforms, and sector specific
policies with local economic policy / strategies. Coordinate and monitor
implementation of the national policy for Local Economic Development.
Manage LED innovation programmes, and strategic partnerships to stimulate
local economies. Conduct economic profiling, sector analysis and opportunity
mapping to support evidence based local economic planning and
implementation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ramphisa at 064 000 8438 / Ms F Kwape at 060 403 6868
For application enquiries contact: Sphamandla Ndlovu Tel No: (011) 763 1103
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
response2@multilead.co.za
POST 14/11 : SENIOR SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER: DEMAND
MANAGEMENT, SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE AND REPORTING REF NO:
SSCMP-01
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-Year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Logistics / Purchasing and
Supply Chain Management or equivalent qualification at NQF 6/7 as
recognised by SAQA. 2-3 years’ experience in a related field. Proficient in
Micro-Software Office packages (MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Teams, MS
Excel and Outlook etc.) Other: A valid driver’s license. Generic Competencies:
Quality of work. Reliability. Initiative. Communication. Interpersonal relations.
Teamwork. Planning and execution. Technical Competencies: In-depth
knowledge of: Public Finance Management Act. Framework for Supply Chain
Management. Transversal systems, i.e. LOGIS and BAS. Tender and contract
administration. Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act. BEE
Framework and BBBEE Act.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Update and
maintain the Department’s annual demand and procurement plan to ensure
alignment with strategic objectives. Report on the progress of the procurement
plan on a monthly, quarterly, and annual basis. Coordinate the drafting of
specifications and terms of reference in compliance with the Departmental
Supply Chain Management (SCM) policy and relevant legislation. Coordinate
Bid Specification Committee (BSC) and Bid Adjudication Committee (BAC)
meetings to facilitate the compilation, consideration, and approval of terms of
reference. Maintain and update the SCM registers (contract, deviation,
variation and expansion etc.) ensuring accuracy and completeness.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ramphisa at 064 000 8438 / Ms F Kwape at 060 403 6868
For application enquiries contact: To the T Recruitment at 067 391 7387
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
dcog13@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 14/12 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: DISASTER PREPAREDNESS, RESPONSE
AND RECOVERY COORDINATION REF NO: AO-DPRRC-02
SALARY : R338 106 per annum. (Level 07)
10
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-Year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Disaster Management /
Development Studies / Environmental Studies or equivalent qualification at
NQF 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 2-3 years’ experience in a related field.
Proficient in Micro-Software Office packages (MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS
Teams, MS Excel and Outlook etc.) Other: A valid driver’s license. Travelling.
Generic Competencies: Quality of work. Reliability. Initiative. Communication.
Interpersonal relations. Teamwork. Planning and execution. Technical
Competencies: Knowledge of: Disaster Management Act. National Disaster
Management Framework. Division of Revenue Act.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Maintain and update
database for Disaster Response Coordination. Assist in screening disaster
funding applications in line with the Disaster Grant Funding Framework and
follow-up on the outstanding matters. Liaise with organs of state on the
development and submission of the seasonal disaster management
contingency plans. Provide secretariat services to Preparedness, Response
and Recovery Coordination Structures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Pitso Tel No: (012) 065 0974
For application enquiries contact: To the T Recruitment at 067 391 7387
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
dcog14@tttrecruitment.co.za
11
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 12 May 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one attachment. Zipped, IMG and JPEG
documents will not be accepted. indicate the correct job title and the reference
number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email
address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act(POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
ERRATUM: Please be advised that the position of Deputy Director: PEA
Registration and Certification for Head Office, Pretoria referenced as
HR4/26/03/05HO has been withdrawn. The position was advertised on the
Public Service Vacancy 09 dated 13 March 2026 with a closing date of 27
March 2026. For inquiries, please contact Dr. Noel Sicwebu Tel No: (012) 309
4382
Kindly take note that the advertised posts of Assistant Director: Labour
Activation Programmed (X11 Posts) with Ref No: HR4/4/3/2ASDLAP/KZN and
Senior Practitioner: Labour Activation Programme (X11 Posts) with Ref No:
HR4/4/3/1SPLAP/KZN for KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Office is withdrawn. These
posts were advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 10 dated 20 March
12
2026 with closing date of 08 April 2026. For inquiries, please contact: Mr. SA
Mchunu Tel No: (031) 336 1500
Kindly take note that the advertised post of Senior Practitioner: Local Appeal
and Complaints for Provincial Office: Mmabatho, with Ref No: HR4/4/01/03 is
withdrawn. The post was advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 02
dated 23 January 2026 with closing date of 06 February 2026. For inquiries,
please contact: Ms. SA Mhlongo at (082) 908 2158.
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/13 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PEA REGISTRATION CERTIFICATION REF NO:
HR4/26/04/08HO
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied must re-apply
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 6 as recognized by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA) in Public Administration / Business Administration / Public
Management / Business Management / Social Science (Psychology) /
Development Studies. Five (5) years’ experience of which two (2) years at the
Assistant Director Level and three (3) years functional experience in public
employment services/ Public operations. Knowledge: Recruitment and
selection, Good Governance, Departmental policies and procedures, General
administrative procedure. Skills: Planning and organizing, Communication,
Computer literacy, Analytical, Presentation, Interpersonal, Report writing.
DUTIES : Coordinate the development and implementation of regulations on Private
Employment Agencies and Temporary Employment Services. Coordinate the
development of business processes and procedures for the registration and
certification of Private Employment Agencies and Temporary Employment
Services. Coordinate the provision of support to Provincial offices and Labour
Centres in the implementation of developed processes and procedures,
including regulations. Oversee the monitoring of compliance of Private
Employment Agencies and Temporary Employment Services with the
prescribed regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Tloane Tel No: (012) 309 4699
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ10@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to African male, Coloured male and female,
Indian male and females, White male and female.
POST 14/14 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR LABOUR CENTRE OPERATIONS REF NO: HR
4/4/8/972
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Kroonstad Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years National Diploma (NQF 6) undergraduate bachelor’s degree
(NQF 7) in Financial Management, Accounting, Human Resource
Management, Labour Relations, Social Science, Engineering Science, Public
Administration/ Management, Business Administration/Management,
Operations Management, Project Management, Three (3) years legal
qualification. Five (5) years’ experience, 2 at an Assistant Director level, 3 years
functional experience in labour market operations/ service delivery
environment. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations, Supply chain management process. Asset management. All
labour legislations. Departmental Policies & Procedures. Public Service
Regulations. Batho Pele Principles Service Delivery Improvement Plan. Skills:
Management. Computer. Presentation skills. Communication (Both verbal &
written). Interpersonal. Conflict Management. Leadership. Project
management.
DUTIES : Manage the service delivery objectives as per mandate of the Department of
Labour (daily). Represent the Department in Key stakeholder forums including
interdepartmental structure of government and municipalities (Intermediate).
Implement and manage service delivery improvement plan. Manage all
resources of the Labour Centre (daily). Manage and ensure compliance with
ALL HRM policy directives and legislation including the Public Service Act and
Regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. E Maneli Tel No: (051) 505 6203
13
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs7@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets-priority will be given to African male and female and Coloured
POST 14/15 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR ACTIVATION PROGRAMMES REF NO:
HR4/4/4/9 (X11 POSTS)
(3-Year Contract)
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied must re-apply
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Kwa-Zulu Natal
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration / Public Management /
Business Administration / Business Management / Development Studies /
Project Management / Social Science / Risk Management / Auditing /
Accounting at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Four (4) years’ experience
of which two (2) years must be functional experience in Labour Activation
Programmes / Project Management / Employment and Job Preservations
Programmes / Enterprise Development / Entrepreneurial environment and two
(2) years’ at Supervisory level. Knowledge: Public Financial Management Act
(PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Labour Activation Framework.
Skills Development Act (SDA). Project Management Principles (PMP).
Diversity Management. Basic Education and Training (BET). Unemployment
Insurance Act (UIA). Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA).
Project Management Methodologies (PMBOK). Skills: Negotiation.
Interpersonal. Presentation. Problem Solving. Planning and organizing. Policy
analysis and interpretation. Communication (verbal and written). Computer
Literacy. Report Writing.
DUTIES : Facilitate engagements with relevant stakeholders on Temporary Employer-
Employee Relief Scheme, Business Turnaround and Recovery Programme
and Employability of the Unemployed projects. Coordinate the implementation
of Temporary Employer-Employee Relief Scheme, Business Turnaround and
Recovery Programme and Employability of the Unemployed in line the
mandate of the Fund in the relevant provinces. Facilitate Awareness
campaigns on Temporary Employer-Employee Relief Scheme, Business
Turnaround and Recovery Programmer and Employability of the Unemployed.
Source approval of Temporary Employer-Employee Relief Scheme, Business
Turnaround and Recovery Programme and Employability of the Unemployed
projects. Monitor Temporary Employer-Employee Relief Scheme, Business
Turnaround and Recovery Programme and Employability of the Unemployed
projects. Manage resources (Human, Finance, Equipment / Assets).
ENQUIRIES : Mr SV Dludla Tel No: (031) 366 2080
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban.
Applications: email: Jobs-KZN9@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Management Kwa-Zulu Natal Provincial Office.
POST 14/16 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FLEET MANAGEMENT SERVICES REF NO: HR
4/4/8/1000
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Free State
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF6) in Public Administration/ Public
Management/ Financial Management/ Financial Administration,
Fleet/Transport Management, Fleet/Transport Economics, Business
Management, Travel & Tourism Management. /Tourism Management and
Logistics Management and Logistics Management. Four (4) years’ experience
of which two (2) years at Supervisory and two (2) years functional experience
In Fleet and or Transport Services & Travel Booking. Valid Driver’s Licence.
Knowledge: Public Financial Management Act, Departmental policies and
procedures, Project management, Intermediate Human Resources
Development, General management, Strategic management, Skills
Development Act, LRA & BCEA, National Road Traffic Act Skills: Leadership,
Facilitation, Computer literacy, Presentation, Innovative, Analytical. Verbal and
written communication, People Management.
DUTIES : Monitor compliance with Travel Management & Fleet policies in the province.
Monitor asset register of Departmental vehicles within the province. Provide,
support and oversee the procurement and operation of the subsidized motor
transport scheme. Manage timeous maintenance and repair of vehicles
according to the manufacturer specifications. Monitor the implementation of
14
accident processes and procedures in the province. Manage all resources of
the division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Tokwe Tel No: (051) 505 6204
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs7@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Free State
NOTE : EE targets-priority will be given to African male and female, People living with
Disabilities, Coloured male, white male and female.
POST 14/17 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: LABOUR ACTIVATION PROGRAMMES REF NO:
HR4/4/4/10 (X11 POSTS)
(3-Year Contract)
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied must re-apply
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Kwa-Zulu Natal
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration/ Public Management/
Business Management/ Business Administration/ Development Studies/
Project Management/ Social Science/ Risk Management/ Auditing / Accounting
at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Two (2) years functional experience
in Labour Activation Programmes/ Project management/ Employment and Job
Preservation Programmes/ Enterprise Development/ Entrepreneurial
environment. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act (Act 1 of 1999).
Basic Conditions of Employment Act (Act 75 of 1997). Public Service Act
(PSA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Unemployment Insurance Act (Act
63 of 2001). Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (Act 4 of 2002).
Intergovernmental Relations Framework Act (Act 13 of 2005), Skills
Development Act (Act 97 of 1998). Protection of Personal Information Act (Act
4 of 2013). Treasury Regulations. General Recognized Accounting Principles
(GRAP). International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Batho Pele
Principles. National Youth Empowerment Accord. National Youth Policy 2020-
2030. Skills: Financial Management. Communication. Training and Coaching.
Diversity Management. Computer Literacy. Time Management. Report Writing.
Planning. Analytical. Numeracy. Presentation. Interpersonal. Research.
Monitoring and Evaluation.
DUTIES : Implement deliverables of Labour Activation Programmes projects. Collate and
arrange project information. Provide Administrative support on project
contracts. Supervise resources in the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SV Dludla Tel No: (031) 366 2080
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban.
Email to: Jobs-KZN8@labour.gov.za
POST 14/18 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: OPERATIONS (X30 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Bethlehem Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/976 (X1 Post)
Reitz Satellite Ref No: HR 4/4/8/977 (X3 Posts)
Phuthaditjhaba Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/978 (X2 Posts)
Harrismith Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/989 (X4 Posts)
Ficksburg Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/990 (X2 Posts)
Botshabelo Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/991 (X2 Posts)
Zastron Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/992 (X1 Post stationed at Zastron)
and (X1 Post stationed at Provincial Office Free State)
Petrusburg Labour Centre but stationed at Provincial Office Ref No: HR
4/4/8/993 (X1 Post)
Virginia Satellite Ref No: HR 4/4/8/995 (X3 Posts)
Kroonstad Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/996 (X3 Posts)
Sasolburg Labour Centre Ref No: HR 4/4/8/997 (X2 Posts)
Parys Satellite Ref No: HR 4/4/8/998 (X3 Posts)
Thaba Nchu Satellite Ref No: HR 4/4/8/999 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Business Administrative or Management/
Public Administration or Management/ Operations/ Accounting/ Finance NQF
Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Valid driver’s license. Two (2) years functional
experience in Client Services environment / Claims Processing environment in
operations or Insurance environment. Knowledge: Unemployment Insurance
Act and Regulations (UIA), Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act
(UICA), Department of Employment and Labour & UIF Policies and Procedure,
Operations System, Batho Pele Principles, Protection of Personal Information
15
Act (POPIA). Skills: Interpersonal, Presentation, Listening, Communication
(Verbal and written), Computer Literacy, Problem Solving, Planning and
Organizing.
DUTIES : Provide Unemployment Insurance services through interaction with customers.
Provide quality assurance and follow-up on Unemployment Insurance
applications. Administer the UI Claims and Processing Services. Supervise
resource (Human, Financial, Equipment/Assets) in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Moholi Tel No: (058) 303 5293 (Bethlehem & Reitz)
Mr A Kutuka Tel No: (058) 122 0800 (Phuthaditjhaba & Ficksburg), Ms. M
Tsatsinyane Tel No: (051) 505 6372 (Harrismith)
Mr M Ngono Tel No: (051) 534 3789 (Botshabelo & Thaba Nchu)
Mr E Qhalane Tel No: (057) 391 0201 (Welkom & Virginia)
Ms M Lelope Tel No: (056) 215 1812 (Kroonstad)
Ms M Lelope Tel No: (016) 970 3200 (Sasolburg & Parys)
Mr D Namane Tel No: (053) 574 0932 (Petrusburg)
Mr C Van Niekerk Tel No: (051) 673 1471 (Zastron)
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs4@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- priority will be given to African male and female, people living with
disabilities, Coloured male, and female and White male and female.
POST 14/19 : SENIOR COID EMPLOYER AUDIT OFFICER REF NO: HR 4/4/8/974
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Free State
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognised by SAQA in Financial
Accounting/BCOM Accounting/ Internal Auditing. Two (2) years’ experience in
Compliance Management/ Auditing/ Accounting/ Inspections and Enforcement
environment. Knowledge: Analysing & Interpreting Information (Data
Analytics), Knowledge of relevant regulations, laws and legislation, Financial
Risk Management and Control, Departmental policies and procedures, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Compensation for Occupational and Injury
Diseases Act, OHS Act and Regulations, Inspector Appointment Certificate,
Inspectors Card, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA). Skills: Analysing
& Interpreting Information (Data Analytics), Employers Assessment and
Auditing, Revision of Assessment, People Management, Service Delivery
Innovation, Stakeholder Development & Relations, Programme/ Project
Planning & Management, Facilitation.
DUTIES : Conduct proactive audits in relation to COIDA. Conduct reactive audits in
relation to COIDA. Conduct Advocacy in relation to COIDA. Enforce
compliance. Supervise the resources within the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Cornelissen Tel No: (051) 505 6263
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs5@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Free State
NOTE : EE targets-priority will be given to African male and female, people living with
disabilities, Coloured male and female, White male and female.
POST 14/20 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/8/1001
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Free State
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) years relevant tertiary qualification in Human Resources
Management. One (1) to two (2) years’ experience Supervisory experience
doing the Human Resources Management Services. Knowledge: All labour
legislation, Departmental Policies and Procedures, HR related systems, Public
service Act, Batho Pele, Public service Regulations. Skills: Communication,
Presentation, Conflict management, Analytical, Report writing, Computer
Literacy, Planning and organising, Supervisory, Time Management.
DUTIES : Monitor the recruitment and selection process. Facilitate the processing and
approval of service benefits. Provide and monitor termination of service at the
province. Monitor establishment and the implementation of HR policies.
Monitor the payment of salaries. Manage all the resources within the Section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SS Segalo Tel No: (051) 505 6206
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs3@labour.gov.za
16
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Free State
NOTE : EE targets-priority will be given to African male and female, people living with
disabilities, Coloured male and female and White male and female
POST 14/21 : CHIEF REGISRTY CLERK: UIF REF NO: HR/4/4/2/45 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year tertiary qualification in Public Administration/ Management. One
(1) year experience in Operations. Valid driver’s licence will be an added
advantage. Knowledge: National Archives Act, Public Service Regulations,
Public Service Act, Public Finance Management Act, Batho Pele Principles,
Record Management. Skills: Communication, Listening, Computer literacy,
Time Management, Interpersonal, Planning Organizing.
DUTIES : Supervise and provide registry counter services. Supervise the handling of
incoming and outgoing correspondence. Supervise and render effective filling
and record management services. Supervise the processing and process
documents for archiving and /disposal. Supervise human resources/ staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. TM Ramatsetse Tel No: (043) 701 3000
APPLICATIONS : Acting Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9005, East London,
0001 or hand deliver at No 3 Hill Street, East London. Email: Jobs-
EC4@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets-preference will be given to white male.
POST 14/22 : EMPLOYER AUDIT OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/8/973
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Free State
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years tertiary qualification in Financial Accounting/ BCOM
Accounting/ Accounting/ BCOM Law/ BCOM in Commerce/ LLB/ Internal
Auditing. One (1) functional experience in Auditing experience. Knowledge:
Departmental Policies and Procedures, Batho Pele Principles. Public Service
Act and Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations, COIDA, UIA, PFMA, BCEA,
SDLA, LRA, UI Contribution Act, Skills Development Act and Employment
Equity Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organising, Computer Literacy,
Interpersonal, Problem Solving, interviewing, Communication Written and
Verbal, Innovative, Analytical Research and Project Management.
DUTIES : Perform monitor the implementation of UIA and COIDA Programmes. Analyse
the systems that provide expert advice on sector specific UIA & COIDA matters.
Co-ordinate the process that monitors and evaluates impact of UIA & COIDA
programs. Provide support in the implementation of Advocacy Campaigns on
UI & COIDA regular and when there are amendments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Cornelissen Tel No: (051) 505 6263
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X522, Bloemfontein, 9300
Or hand deliver at Laboria House, 43 Charlotte Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein.
Email: jobs-fs5@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Free State
NOTE : EE targets-priority will be given to African male and female, people living with
Disabilities, Coloured male and female and White male and female.
POST 14/23 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: ASSESSOR (X7 POSTS)
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Joubertina Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/10/01 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Louterwater Satellite Office Ref:
HR/4/9/10/02 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Misgund Satellite Office Ref:
HR/4/4/10/03 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Hankey Satellite Office Ref:
HR/4/4/10/04 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Patensie Satellite Office Ref:
HR/4/4/10/05 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Jeffreysbay Satellite Office Ref:
HR/4/4/10/06 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Humansdop Satellite Office Ref:
HR/4/4/10/07 (X1 Post)
17
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA), Department of Labour and UIF Policies and
Procedures, Treasury Regulations, UIF’s Vision, Mission and Values,
Departmental Policies, Procedures and Guidelines, Batho Pele Principles.
Skills: Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Computer Literacy,
Communication (verbal and written), Listening, Interpretation (ability to
interpret UI Act and Contribution Act), Conflict Management, Time
Management, Customer Relations, Analytical and On job training (operational
systems).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF Benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Koba Tel No: (041) 995 7047
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, P.O. Box 562.
Kariega, 6230, or hand deliver at 15A Chase Street Kariega 6230. Email: Jobs-
ECUHG@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- preference will be given to white male.
18
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria: Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-
delivered to: Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr
Soutpansberg and Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to
the respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject
email. RCSM20-2026@dffe.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 18 May 2026,16:00
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a successful completion
of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National
School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment. The course is available at
the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can
be obtained by following the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. Furthermore, all shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Following the interview and the technical exercise, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. The person appointed to
this position will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of
performance agreement and employment contract. The Department reserves
the right not to make an appointment. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your
personal information which you provide to the DFFE to being processed by the
department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees, and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with the POPIA of
2013. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing
date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
OTHER POST
POST 14/24 : GISC PROFESSIONAL CHIEF GRADE A REF NO: RCSM20/2026
Re-Advertisement and those who have previously applied, need to reapply
SALARY : R1 143 468 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
19
REQUIREMENTS : 4-year B degree in GISc (NQF Level 7) or relevant equivalent qualification
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of six years post qualification GISc
professional experience. Compulsory registration with SAGC as a GISc
Professional on appointment. Professional on appointment. Knowledge of
Programme and Project management. Legal and operational compliance.
Communication skills. Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and
knowledge. knowledge of Research and development. Knowledge of Remote
Sensing and satellite image interpretation, creation and maintenance of online
systems, generation of Field Map applications and the management of an
Enterprise License Agreement (covering DFFE and the five entities) will be an
added advantage. Systems skills. Geo-Database design and analysis skills.
Creating high performance organizational culture. Technical consulting.
Accountability. Strategic management and direction Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical skills Creativity. Self-
management. Financial Management. Customer focus and responsiveness
Communication and listening skills. Computer skills Delegation and
development of others. Planning, organising and Execution Ability to manage
Conflict. Language Proficiency Knowledge Management. Negotiation and
Change management skills. A valid driver’s licence will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Strategic management of the institutional GISc function. Provide strategic
direction and leadership on GISc activities. Strategically profiling and
positioning GISC function within the institution. Plan and manage the
establishment of GISc unit. Plan, coordinate and facilitate GISc projects
activities. Monitor and evaluate GISc function within the organisation. Develop
the cost benefit analysis. Facilitate the functional requirement analysis. Ensure
compliance with relevant legislation and policies. Manage compliance and
setting up of applicable standards. Stakeholder management. Policy making
and institutional strategic. Policy making and institutional strategic guidance.
Identify underlying strategic issues and implement appropriate GISc
responses. Oversee the process of advance spatial analysis and modelling for
institutional strategic guidance. Recommend the best possible policy direction
and service delivery priorities. Research: Provide overall framework for
research and development activities Provide standards, specification and
service levels according to organizational objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Deon Marais Tel No: (012) 399 9295
20
ANNEXURE F
GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM (GCIS)
The GCIS is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1)
(i) of the Constitution of South Africa of 1996, the Employment Equity (EE) imperatives as defined by the
EE Act of 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resource policies of the department will be taken
into consideration. People with disabilities will be accommodated within reasonable limits. Therefore,
preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in achieving its EE
targets in terms of the department’s EE Plan. People with disabilities will be given preference regardless
of race or gender.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General (DG) of GCIS, Private Bag X745, Pretoria, 0001, hand
deliver to Tshedimosetso House, 1035 cnr Francis Baard and Festival streets,
Hatfield, Pretoria or to the email address provided. to recruitment@gcis.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P. Kgopyane
CLOSING DATE : 19 May 2026
NOTE : Applicants with disabilities are encouraged to apply. The old prescribed
application or employment form Z83 was withdrawn with effect from 31
December 2020. As per the Government Gazette No: 43872, any applicant
who submits an application on or after 1 January 2021 must do so on the new
prescribed Z83 form, obtainable from any Public Service department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Failure to submit an application on the new
prescribed Z83 form will lead to disqualification. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit the fully completed and signed Z83 form and a detailed curriculum
vitae only. Communication regarding submission of certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interview, following
communication from the department. Should you be in possession of a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applicants who do not comply
with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late,
will not be considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The successful candidate must disclose to the DG, particulars of
all registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and
employment contract with the DG within three months from the date of
assumption of duty and obtain a Top-Secret security clearance. All
appointments are subject to the verification of educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. The
department reserves the right to fill or not to fill the vacant post. The successful
candidates will sign an employment contract with the GCIS that will be
reviewed based on performance expiration. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) of 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for
your personal information which you provide to the GCIS to being processed
by the department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes in accordance with POPIA.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/25 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: CONTENT PROCESSING AND
DISSEMINATION
Branch: Content Processing and Dissemination
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), (an all-inclusive package), of which 70% will
be basic salary and 30% may be structured according to an individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 8) as recognised by SAQA in
Communication / Development Communication/ Public Relations/ Media
Studies/ Journalism or related NQF Level 8 qualification Majoring in
Communication/ Media Studies/Journalism/ Public Relations/ Development
Communication. Applicants must have eight (8) years of experience at senior
management level in the communication environment. Successful completion
of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-Entry Programme endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG) is a pre-requisite for appointment. Skills:
Superior leadership skills; excellent written and verbal communication and
21
digital skills; ability to interact with people at all levels; people management and
empowerment skills; strong public speaking skills; proven change
management skills and capability; analytical, organisational and interpersonal
skills; complex stakeholder management skills, especially at intergovernmental
level, innovative; creative thinking; strategic coordination skills and computer
literacy. Job knowledge: Extensive knowledge of the South African and
international communications landscape. An in-depth understanding of
government communication discipline, Knowledge of communication digital
platforms. A thorough knowledge and understanding of government policies
and programmes. Competencies: Strategic leadership and capability; Financial
management; Risk management; Corporate governance; Extensive
knowledge of the Government Communication Policy; the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa of 1996; the Public Service Act of 1994 and
Regulations; Public Administration Management Act of 2014; the Public
Finance Management Act of 1999; and other relevant prescripts applicable in
the communication sector, in the Public Service and for the entities reporting
to the GCIS.
DUTIES : Reporting to the Director General, the Deputy Director-General will be
responsible for providing strategic leadership in providing products and
platforms that will ensure coherence, coordination, consistency, quality, impact
and responsiveness of Government communication. Provide strategic
leadership on financial and non-financial organisational planning and
performance for the Branch. Ensure development of Government
Communication and Media policies, lead legislation development for the GCIS
entities and provide technical oversight for GCIS entities. Lead the internal
digital communication, develop strategies and plan for implementation and
ensure coordination of digital communication and media production for the
whole Government Communication System. Undertake regular market
research to inform decision-making and proactive communication. Develop
strategies to reach all sectors of the population through GCIS owned products
and platforms and use of all official languages. Provide strategic leadership for
government media buying media production and marketing services. Ensure
continuous improvements in government communication through the effective
use of research. Ensure good governance in the Branch including risk and
compliance, people management and development, and prudent financial
management. Ensure effective management and preservation of the
government corporate branding across all spheres and sectors.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Paul Kwerane Tel No: (012) 473 0407 /Ms. Lungile Tshabalala Tel No: (012)
473 0074.
NOTE : It is a pre-requisite for candidates to have the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-
Entry Programme certificate to be eligible for appointment. For further details,
please click on the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course,
visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za. The successful candidate must
disclose to the Minister particulars of all registrable financial interests and sign
the employment contract within one month from the date of assumption of duty
as well as sign a performance agreement with the Minister within three months
from the date of assumption of duty. Appointment is subject to a positive Top
Secret Security Clearance. Following the interview and technical exercise, the
selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic managerial
competency assessments and related assessments as prescribed by the
DPSA. Please detail courses passed in the CV as per the academic transcript.
Note: All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
22
ANNEXURE G
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE (GTAC)
APPLICATIONS : Please register or if you are already registered, sign in and apply for the
position/s on the GTAC eRecruitment website
https://erecruitment.gtac.gov.za/erecruitment/
CLOSING DATE : 12 May 2026 at 12 pm.
NOTE : Only South African Citizens, and Permanent Residents need to apply as per
PSR 2016. Applications should be accompanied by a duly completed and
signed Z83 form (obtainable from any Public Service department). The post
title and reference number must be clearly indicated on the Z83 form. A recent
comprehensive CV should be submitted. Certified copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents will be required to be submitted to HR on or before
the day of the interview from shortlisted candidates. All short-listed candidates
will be subjected to security vetting to confirm employment, personnel
suitability checks and undergo an SMS competency assessment prior to the
interview. Short-listed candidates must make themselves available for a panel
interview on the date determined by GTAC. Late applications, and those not
meeting the requirements, will not be considered. Should you not receive
feedback from GTAC within 2 months of the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. GTAC reserves the right to fill or not fill the advertised
post. Preference will be given according to EE and Gender target. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. In accordance with the
DPSA Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days and Minimum requirements, this SMS level appointment will be subject
to the completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government. The applicants should
therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-entry certificate and
have completed the course before the appointment. The cost of the pre-entry
certificate is at the candidate’s expense. To access the pre-certificate course,
please visit: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme. Applications: Only online applications will be accepted.
Applications not accompanied by a comprehensive CV and fully completed and
signed Z83 form will not be considered. The GTAC is an equal-opportunity
employer and encourages applications from women and people with
disabilities. Our buildings are accessible to people with disabilities and
reasonable accommodation is provided for persons with disabilities.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/26 : SENIOR TECHNICAL FINANCE SPECIALIST (JOBS FUND) REF NO:
G04/2026
Term: 24 months fixed-term contract
Role Purpose: The role provides seniorlevel technical finance and investment
expertise across the full project lifecycle from deal origination and financial
structuring to due diligence, risk mana-gement, and portfolio oversight. The
incumbent will assess complex financial structures, ensure the catalytic use of
grant funding, support pipeline development, and contribute to applied
research on job creation, value chains, and the green and informal economy,
including the Just Energy Transition.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive), PSR 44 will apply to
candidates appointed in the Salary Level.
CENTRE : Jobs Fund | GTAC | Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A degree (NQF Level 7 or higher) in Finance, Economics, Accounting,
Business Management, Development Finance, or a related field. Formal
training or qualification in project or programme management. 10–15 years’
experience in project finance, corporate finance, structured finance, or
investment analysis, including appraisal and closing of complex transactions.
Demonstrated experience assessing innovative or non standard financial
structures and grant based funding mechanisms. Strong understanding of
private sector financing, incentives, and risk dynamics.- Proven ability to
conduct due diligence-, analyse financial statements and models, and exercise
sound i-nvestment judgment. 5 years of experience at a senior managerial level.
Advantageous Experience and Qualifications: Post graduate qualifications in
23
Finance, Economics, Accounting, Business Management, Development
Finance, or a related field. CFA, CA(SA), MBA (Finance/Strategy), or
equivalent senior professional qualification. Experience in development
finance, impact investing, blended finance, climate finance, or transition
finance. Experience working on green economy, informal economy, or Just
Energy Transition–related projects or value chains. Experience conducting or
translating research on value chains, labour absorption, or economic
development outcomes. Ideal Candidate Profile: You are a senior technical
finance professional who combines strong analytical rigour with practical
deal making experience. You are comfortable working between public and
private sectors, interrogating complex financial structures, and applying an
inves-tment lens to real world job creation challenges. You bring independence
of thought, strong judgment, and a commitment to using public resources
catalytically for inclusiv-e growth.
DUTIES : Originate and develop a pipeline of high impact, employmentfocused
investment opportunities in partnership with private sector firms,
intermediaries, developers, and ecosystem pa-rtners. Analyse, struct-ure, and
assess complex financial instruments and funding models, including blended
finance, debt structures, outcome based financing, and performancelinked
grants. Conduct rigorous financial, commercial, and operational due diligence
on project applications, includin-g assessment of financial additio-nality,
sustainability, and execution risk. Identify and analyse financial, market,
governance, and performance risks arising from different project structures,
and recommend appropriate mitigation strategies. Lead and quality assure
appraisal reports and funding recommendations submitted to Technical
Evaluation and Investment Committees. Provide technical overs-ight of
high risk or complex projects within the Jobs Fund portfolio and support
remedial action where performance challenges arise. Conduct independent
appli-ed research on job creation opportunities, priority value chains, the
informal economy, and green and Just Energy Transition–related sectors,
translating insights into funding and strategy inputs. Present financial, risk, and
research findings clearly to internal decisionmakers and external
stakeholders. Coach, mentor, and technically support junior staff, building
institutional capability in financial appraisal, risk a-nalysis, and innovative
finance. Represent the Jobs Fund in relevant stakeholder engagements,
market forums, and learning platforms.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072 or kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
NOTE : The Jobs Fund is recruiting a Senior Technical Finance Specialist to strengthen
its capacity to originate, structure, appraise, and oversee innovative,
employmentgenerating projects that leverage public finance to unlock private
investment. This is a senior specialist role suited to an experienced finance
professional -with strong private sector exposure and a deep understanding of
development, impact, and transition finance.
-
OTHER POST
POST 14/27 : PROJECT ADMINISTRATOR (JOBS FUND) REF NO: G05/2026
Term: 24 months fixed-term contract
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus 37% in lieu of benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree/ Advanced Diploma (NQF Level 7) in Accounting,
Commerce, Business or Business Administration, Project Management or
related field. Minimum 4 years’ experience in a similar role or in project
management/administration. Experience in using AI tools to support
administrative functions. PowerPoint and production of presentations. Writing
skills and a high level of proficiency in English. Experience in SharePoint Portal
and electronic filing systems and Project Management and MS Project
experience would be advantageous. Competencies Required: Administrative
Support: Knowledge, capabilities and practices associated with the provision
of office administration support. This competency requires knowledge of the
appropriate rules, regulations, processes and associated systems within
various enabling functions which may diary scheduling, document filing and
archiving, meetings administration, typing and computer literacy skills (MS
Office), office administration, office resources and equipment administration,
telephone administration and travel administration. Computer Literacy:
Knowledge and ability to use computers and technology efficiently. Refers to
the comfort level someone has with using computer programs and other
applications associated with computers (MSOffice, Internet, email). Typing
24
speed of 50–70 words per minute with 98–100% accuracy. Information
Management: The ability to gather, prepare, house and share the
organisationally relevant information produced or found through work in a
manner that creates easy access and understanding, and that informs and
educates the reader regarding the subject. Resources Planning: The ability to
organise work, set priorities and determine resource requirements; determine
short- or long-term goals and strategies to achieve them; coordinate with other
organisations or parts of the organisation to accomplish goals; monitor
progress and evaluate outcomes. Client Service Orientation: Client-service
orientation implies helping or serving others, to meet their needs. It means
focussing on discovering those needs, figuring out how to best meet them as
well as putting into practice the Batho Pele spirit. The term “clients” refers to
both internal and external clients. Concern for Quality and Order: Desire to see
things done logically, clearly and well. It takes various forms: monitoring and
checking work and information, insisting on the clarity of roles and duties,
setting up and maintaining information system. Effective Communication:
Ability to transmit and receive information clearly and communicate effectively
to others by considering their points of view to respond appropriately. This may
involve listening, interpreting, formulating and delivering verbal, non-verbal,
written, and/or electronic messages. It includes the ability to convey ideas and
information in a way that brings understanding to the target audience.
Emotional Intelligence: Capacity for recognising their own feelings and those
of others, for motivating themselves and others as a result of this awareness,
and for managing emotions within themselves and in others. Integrity/ Honesty:
Contributes to maintaining the integrity of the organisation; displays high
standards of ethical conduct and understands the impact of violating these
standards on an organisation, self, and others; is trustworthy. System Thinking:
Orientation to think in system-wide terms with regards to functions or divisions
within the organisation. This includes spotting opportunities to connect with
initiatives underway in other areas or proactively sharing information or
resources that can be seen to have relevance and impact for others. Team
Participation: Works co-operatively with others, working together as opposed
to working separately or competitively. Valuing Diversity: Ability to understand
and respect the practices, customs, values and norms of other individuals,
groups and cultures. It goes beyond what is required by governmental
employment equity regulations to include the ability to respect and value
different points-of-view, and to be open to others of different backgrounds or
perspectives. It includes seeing others’ differences as a positive part of the
work environment. It also means being able to work well with a wide variety of
people representing different backgrounds, cultures and socio-economic
levels. Vision and Purpose: Modelling and promoting high personal and
professional standards that support the organisation's vision, mandate and
values. Sharing goals, objectives and ideas to encourage others to commit to
and be enthusiastic about realising the vision.
DUTIES : To provide administrative support service to the team and enable efficient and
smooth operations. Diary, meetings administration and telephonic
communications: Schedule and administer appointments and meetings
including setting-up and confirming appointments and meetings and updating
diaries preparing and distributing meeting schedules. Organise meetings and
make sure all arrangements are made as follows: booking meeting rooms,
parking, presentation aids, and catering and refreshments where required,
scheduling meetings on MS teams or via Zoom where applicable, preparing,
distributing and processing meeting invitations, directions and agendas,
assisting with the compilation and distribution of meeting packs (hardcopy
and/or electronic), arranging security and transport for delegates from other
government and international institutions, where applicable, facilitating access
to office, and receiving and assisting external and internal visitors and staff.
Provide secretariat services to meetings including typing and distributing
minutes, prepare and distribute meeting agendas, action logs and minutes,
following up on decisions and actions arising from meeting, filing and archiving
meeting minutes, notes, agenda, and documents. Facilitate and administer
telephonic communications as follows: answering, screening of incoming
telephone calls and maintaining a record of outgoing calls where applicable,
develop and maintain an office contact list/directory, coordinate and submit
telephone accounts to the relevant parties monthly. Documents and reports
production and administration support: Administer all electronic and hard copy
documents such as correspondence, memos, agreements and reports to
ensure complete and auditable records. Acknowledging receipt of documents,
noting priority, and tracking required response and/or handling. Following up
25
on deadlines for documents for submission. Maintaining an accurate log of all
documents emanating from the unit that require approval. Assist with the
preparation and finalisation of documents including: taking and/or transcribing
dictation and notes, sourcing, obtaining and/or downloading documents as
requested (from the internet and/or other sources), proofread, format, and
apply Jobs Fund templates and branding standards for quality assurance,
effecting necessary changes as requested and finalising documents, recording
the distribution, confidentiality and indexing requirements of documents.
Produce and distribute documents including, and as required: printing /
copying, packaging and faxing / delivering / couriering / posting of hard copies,
creating email distribution lists and sending electronic copies. Manage the
physical and electronic document tracking and filing systems including opening
and creating files, indexing, filing, and archiving documents, conducting
electronic data clean-ups and back-ups, handling documents with utmost
discretion. Travel arrangements and claims administration: Process travel
requests for a team including confirming budget, obtaining approvals and
making travel, transport and accommodation and security bookings as
requested. Prepare travel packs including meetings itinerary and details and
travel documents, schedule and details. Process and administer travel reports
and travel claims and reconcile and organise the requisition and
reimbursement of subsistence and travel claims. Maintain the Site Visit
Register and track implementation follow-ups. Support data collection and
clean-up for baseline, midline, and endline exercises. Office administration:
Record and process requests for stationery and equipment including obtaining
equipment approval and submitting to the relevant parties, assessing
stationery needs, distributing and reconciling stationary monthly. Monitor,
report and ensure equipment and furniture maintenance, cleaning and repairs
to the relevant parties. Client and project teams support: Provide general
programme information and assist with the resolution of client queries. Provide
administrative and secretarial support to project teams as required and assist
with the coordination and administration of project tasks. Compile and maintain
project data. Provide procurement support to project teams including
processing procurement requests, supporting procurement processes and
processing and submitting invoices and claims for payment. Project
management support: Assist in project planning sessions. Assist with the
preparation and updating of project plans using appropriate software (including
MS Project). Provide project management support to relevant staff members.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 250 7072 or kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
26
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Motheo TVET College)
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be mailed to: Deputy Principal Corporate Services
Motheo TVET College, Private Bag X20509, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand
delivered at Motheo TVET College, Central office Corner St George and Aliwal
Streets alternatively be sent by e-mail to: recruitment@motheotvet.edu.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr J Ntsane/Ms N Nameka/Ms MD Lebeko Tel No: (051) 014 7850
CLOSING DATE : 15 May 2026 (No late applications will be accepted)
NOTE : Applicants are required to submit only a completed signed New Z83 form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (eg. Indicating positions held,
dates and key performance areas/responsibilities. Certified copies of ID, Valid
driver’s Licence, where applicable, and all other required relevant documents
like qualifications, will only be requested from shortlisted candidates on or
before the interview date. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. People with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report. Immigrants should apply for work
permits before assumption of duty. Successful candidates will be subjected to
security screening and may be required to work at other places as may
reasonably be required by the College. Motheo TVET College reserves the
right to withdraw the mentioned advert. Please consider your application as
unsuccessful should you not be contacted within 3 months from the closing
date. Failure to comply to this requirement will result in the candidate being
disqualified. NB: Candidates whose appointments promote representatively in
terms of gender, race and disability will receive first preference.
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/28 : INTERNAL AUDITOR REF NO: MOT/DHET/INTER-AUD/CO/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised Degree or National Diploma in Internal Auditor/B.Com,
Accounting and or related field. 2-years relevant experience. Good
understanding of audit processes and audit approaches. A valid driver’s
license. Good communication skills (verbal and written). Effective report
writing. Computer literacy, Registration with the Institute of Internal Auditors
(South Africa). Knowledge of the following: Organisational and governmental
structures, National Treasury Internal audit framework, Internal audit
methodologies. Public sector Risk Management framework, General
Recognised Accounting Standards (GRAP) and the Global Internal Auditing
Standards.
DUTIES : Develop system documentation, walkthrough test and adequacy audit working
papers, gather and check the evidence test. Compile testing procedure and
audit programmes. Development of Combined Assurance Plans and
Implementation plans. Facilitation of Combined Assurance Forum. Perform
internal audit engagement in line with the Internal Audit Plan. Present internal
audit progress report to various stakeholders. Discuss the audit findings during
auditing and compile draft audit reports. Complete monthly time sheets and
supervise junior personnel.
ENQUIRES : Mr LJ Baleni Tel No: (051) 014 7850
POST 14/29 : INTERNAL AUDITOR (COLLEGE COUNCIL POST) REF NO:
MOT/TVET/COLLEGE-COUN/INTER-AUD/CO/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised Degree or National Diploma in Internal Auditor/B.Com,
Accounting and or related field. 2-years relevant experience. Good
understanding of audit processes and audit approaches. A valid driver’s
license. Good communication skills (verbal and written). Effective report
writing. Computer literacy, Registration with the Institute of Internal Auditors
27
(South Africa). Knowledge of the following: Organisational and governmental
structures, National Treasury Internal audit framework, Internal audit
methodologies. Public sector Risk Management framework, General
Recognised Accounting Standards (GRAP) and the Global Internal Auditing
Standards.
DUTIES : Develop system documentation, walkthrough test and adequacy audit working
papers, gather and check the evidence test. Compile testing procedure and
audit programmes. Development of Combined Assurance Plans and
Implementation plans. Facilitation of Combined Assurance Forum. Perform
internal audit engagement in line with the Internal Audit Plan. Present internal
audit progress report to various stakeholders. Discuss the audit findings during
auditing and compile draft audit reports. Complete monthly time sheets and
supervise junior personnel.
ENQUIRES : Mr LJ Baleni Tel No: (051) 014 7850
POST 14/30 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: BUDGETING REF NO: MOT/DHET/STA-ACC
/CO/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised Degree or National Diploma in Financial Management
/Accounting/or Cost and Management Accounting. 2years of functional
experience in a financial management environment specifically in budgeting
and review of a general ledger. A valid driver’s license. Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Analytical skills and effective report writing.
Advanced Computer literacy. In-depth knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, and all relevant policies.
DUTIES : Budget compilation and planning for branches/units. Budget monitoring and
expenditure processing, creditors reconciliation. Managing cash flow and
performing expenditure analysis. Guiding responsibility managers on budget
utilization. Monitoring expenditure against approved budget allocations.
Preparing monthly, quarterly and annual budget reports. Assist with audit action
plan and audit information.
ENQUIRES : Mr G Odora Tel No: (051) 014 7850
28
ANNEXURE I
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are
encouraged to apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and
the NPA Employment Equity Strategy 2022-2026, will take highest preference in selection of suitable
candidates.
CLOSING DATE : 13 May 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response E
mails stated below. Applicants must apply by submitting applications on the
most recent Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a
comprehensive CV only (with detailed experience information). Failure to do
so will result in your application being disqualified. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on or before the day of the interview following communication from
Human Resources. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an
evaluation report issued by SAQA (only when shortlisted). It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to
provide proof of such evaluation (only when shortlisted). All applications must
reach the NPA on/or before the closing date. No late applications will be
accepted/processed. Documents should not be password protected, and ZIP
files will be blocked. The NPA cannot be held responsible for server delays. All
applications must reach the NPA on/or before the closing date. No late
applications will be accepted/processed. The applicant’s attention is drawn to
the fact that the NPA uses an Electronic Response Handling System in terms
of e-mailed applications. Please do not contact the NPA directly after you have
e-mailed your applications to enquire if your application(s) have been received.
If you have not received an acknowledgement of receipt within one week after
the closing date, then you can contact the NPA. The NPA reserves the right not
to fill any particular position. If you do not hear from us within (6) six months
from the closing date of the advert, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Successful candidates will be subjected to a security clearance
of at least confidential. Appointment to this position will be provisional, pending
the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the
interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed
as part of the verification process. A valid driver’s license will be a requirement
where applicable. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments which are, a practical exercise and an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics
of which will be communicated by the NPA. Following the interview and
technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a
generic managerial competency-based assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will test generic managerial competencies using
the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. A Pre-entry
certificate obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is required
for all SMS applicants for Public Service Act positions in the NPA (SMS pre-
entry certificate to be submitted prior to appointment). NPA Act appointments
are exempted from the pre-entry certificate requirement. This is a Public
Service specific training programme. The name of the course is Certificate for
entry into the SMS. The full details can be sourced from the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/..Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021 a new
application form for employment (Z83) is in use. The new application for
employment form can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1
January 2021 should an application be received using the incorrect (old)
application for employment (Z83), it will not be considered. NB! Applicants who
are successful must please note that the NPA is not in a position to pay
resettlement costs.
ERRATUM: Kindly take that the post of Administrative Officer – OWP: Head
Office with Ref No: Recruit 2026/99 advertised in Public Service Vacancy
Circular 11dated 27 March 2026 is hereby withdrawn.
29
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/31 : CHIEF FORENSIC ACCOUNTANT REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/112
National Prosecution Services.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B -degree (NQF level 7) in Accounting / Forensic Accounting or
equivalent qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post experience qualification in
Audit, Forensic Accounting or Financial Investigations of which five (5) should
be at middle / senior managerial level in a legal/investigative/financial
environment related to investigations, financial crime or forensic accounting.
Membership or certifications with professional bodies will be an added
advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Experience in public sector investigations,
litigation and support and providing expert witness testimony. Strong analytical
and investigative skills, proficiency in accounting software and data analysis
tools. Administration skills. Communication written and verbal. Planning and
organizing skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Problem solving and
decision-making skills. Computer skills, such as MS Word, MS Excel, MS
Outlook, MS PowerPoint, etc. Ability to work independently and manage
multiple projects and strong ethical standards and integrity are required.
Attention to detail and high level of accuracy. Knowledge of civil and /or criminal
procedure. Able to work extended hours and travel around the country. A valid
driver's license.
DUTIES : Oversee the implementation of investigation and prosecution plans in respect
of financial investigations. Provide guidance to and supervise Forensic
Accountants. Leading and management of complex financial investigation,
managing teams and providing support and technical advice to prosecutors in
the SCCU. Manage and coordinate quality financial investigations. Ensure
accuracy and reliability of analysed financial data and safekeeping thereof.
Ensure completion and achievements of investigation priorities based on
technical and operational targets. Manage internal and external stakeholder
relations in financial investigations. Oversee the development of new
technologies and methodologies in financial investigations.
ENQUIRIES : Bonakele Jali Tel No: (012) 845 6395
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026112@npa.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/32 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS REF NO: RECRUIT
2026/111 (X2 POSTS)
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 563 183 per annum (Level 14), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least ten (10) years’ post qualification experience in civil and/or
criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Admission as an
Attorney/Advocate will be an added advantage. Good advocacy and legal
drafting skills. Knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
interpersonal, analytical, presentation and communication skills. Computer
skills. Able to work extended hours. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : To guide investigations and conduct prosecutions of identified cases. To
exercise oversight on any decision to prosecute, and to give any necessary
advice and report to the Head of the SCCU. To ensure that decisions to
prosecute or not prosecute comply with all relevant legal prescripts, the
Constitution, and all applicable policies, procedures and directive. To provide
high level and well researched opinions and reports to the Head of the SCCU.
To manage and direct governance and operations in the SCCU. To monitor and
review strategy and operations. To provide enterprise performance reports. To
render professional advice to the Head of the SCCU, as required. To ensure
that plans are in place to promote good stakeholder and partner engagement.
To ensure that the national strategy and annual plan of the SCCU are
developed and implemented. To ensure that the regional offices meet targets,
continuously analyse, review and monitor operational performance of the
offices in order, inter alia, to identify and operational deficiencies and to monitor
30
the achievement of strategic objectives and annual targets. To develop any
performance or delivery improvement plans or make such interventions as
circumstances may require. To oversee the development and implementation
of appropriate employee performance management systems. To meet with
relevant stakeholders on a regular basis in order to effectively execute the
mandate of SCCU.
ENQUIRIES : Lerato Rakale Tel No: (012) 351 6756
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026111@npa.gov.za
POST 14/33 : SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum (CM-1), (total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Vaal Rand (Vanderbijlpark) Ref No: Recruit 2026/113
CPP: Bloemfontein Ref No: Recruit 2026/114
CPP: Bloemfontein (Thaba-Nchu) Ref No: Recruit 2026/115
CPP: Pretoria Ref No: Recruit 2026/116
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience. Five
(5) years’ experience in legal practice will be an added advantage.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Manage, give
guidance to and train prosecutors. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding
investigations and giving instructions in reasonably complex or more difficult
common law and statutory offences. Able to draft charge sheets and complex
court documents. Ability to act independently without constant supervision.
Must have good administrative skills.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise allocation of work and management of performance for
lower level prosecutors including trainee Prosecutor. Train and guide
Prosecutors including trainee Prosecutors and stakeholders in preparation of
case dockets and deciding on the institution and conduct criminal proceedings.
Represent the State in all courts. Present and assist prosecutors including
trainee Prosecutors in presentation of state’s case court, lead and cross
examination of witnesses and address court on inter alia conviction and the
like. Attend to representations and complaints. Attend to instructions of the
Chief Prosecutor and the Director of Public Prosecutions. Lead Prosecutors
towards achieving strategic goals and operational targets set by NPA, DPP
office and CPP. Perform all duties including administrative duties related
thereto, in accordance with code of conduct, policy directives of NPA. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Vaal Rand (Vanderbijlpark) Motshabi Malabi Tel No: (012) 351 6864
CPP: Bloemfontein & CPP: Bloemfontein (Thaba-Nchu) Lemmer Ludwick Tel
No: (051) 410 6001
CPP: Pretoria Godfrey Ramakuela Tel No: (012) 351 6808
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Vaal Rand (Vanderbijlpark) e mail: Recruit2026113@npa.gov.za
CPP: Bloemfontein e mail: Recruit2026114@npa.gov.za
CPP: Bloemfontein (Thaba-Nchu) e mail: Recruit2026115@npa.gov.za
CPP: Pretoria e mail: Recruit2026116@npa.gov.za
POST 14/34 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/117
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 242 915 - R1 934 208 per annum (LP-9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Admission as advocate or attorney will be an added
advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. High level of proficiency in prosecuting
and presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal
investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory offences.
Interpersonal skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Good
advocacy, well developed skills in legal research and legal drafting skills.
Knowledge of PFMA, MFMA and money laundering matters. Strong computer
skills and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint.
Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work independently. Valid
driver’s licence.
31
DUTIES : Conduct prosecution on behalf of the State on Serious, complex and organised
crime cases, corruption and money laundering matters. Advise the police on
the investigation of serious, complex organised crime cases and cyber related
matters. Conduct legal research and keep up to date with legal developments.
Draft charge sheets and other court documents and represent the State in all
courts. Draft heads of arguments and argue appeals. Present cases in court,
lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on conviction and
sentence. Appear in motion proceedings and also do appeals and reviews.
Generally, conduct prosecution on behalf of the State. Manage performance
assessment, mentor and guide work of Junior Advocates. Offers skills transfer
to lower court prosecutors and investigating officers. Perform ad hoc duties
incidental to middle management services regionally.
ENQUIRIES : Flora Kalakgosi Tel No: (018) 381 9041
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026117@npa.gov.za
POST 14/35 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/118 (X2 POSTS)
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208.per annum (LP-9), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Five (5) years’
experience in legal practice will be an added advantage. Strong interpersonal
and communication skills. Decision making ability. Computer literacy and
knowledge of programs in MS Office.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare cases for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments and
court documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence. Attend to
representations, prepare opinions and head of arguments and argue cases in
appropriate court. Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal
matters and in general conduct prosecution on behalf of the state. Perform all
duties related thereto in accordance with the code of conduct policy and
directives of the NPA. Mentor and coach junior staff and quality check their
work. Participate in the performance assessment of staff being mentored.
ENQUIRIES : Godfrey Ramakuela Tel No: (012) 351 6808
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026118@npa.gov.za
POST 14/36 : SENIOR FORENSIC DATA CASE ANALYST REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/119
Investigating Directorate Against Corruption
Re-advert
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (MMS Level 12), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) Computer Science/ Information
Systems/ Statistics/ Forensic Science/ Forensic Accounting/ Policing/
Criminology or related qualification with specialization in data analysis and / or
forensic investigations. Minimum of five (5) years’ experience in a
legal/investigative/financial environment in roles related to investigations,
financial crime, forensic accounting or compliance. Vocational training in Anti-
Corruption and financial crime/ anti-money laundering/ corruption investigation
techniques/ data analysis tools/ cybersecurity/ Digital forensics. Certified Fraud
Examiner (CFE), Certified Data Analyst (CDA), Certified Information System
Auditor (CISA), Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialist (CAMS) or other
Data Science and Analytics certifications. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
written and verbal communication skills, innovative and proactive. General
management and project management Skills. Strategic capability and
leadership. People management and empowerment. Customer service and
responsiveness. communication skills. Planning and prioritising. Research
skills and administration skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the planning and implementation of data analysis and research.
Monitor the collection of data and management thereof. Manage/ conduct
quality analysis to support investigation and prosecution of crimes. Undertake
32
the compilation and presentation of investigative report. Manage and develop
staff.
ENQUIRIES : Matodzi Makhari Tel No: (012) 845 6012
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026119@npa.gov.za
POST 14/37 : REGIONAL COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 074 222 - R1 742 772 per annum (Level SU-3), (total cost package)
CENTRE : CPP: Bloemfontein (Phuthadijhaba) Ref No: Recruit 2026/120 (Re-advert)
CPP: Pretoria (Soshanguve) Ref No: Recruit 2026/132
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least six (6) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Must have the
ability to act independently or within minimum supervision. Proficiency in
prosecuting, guiding investigation and giving instructions in complex or more
difficult common law and statutory offences in Regional and District Court. Draft
complex charge sheets and complex court documents. Good management
skills. Must manage, give guidance and train prosecutors.
DUTIES : Manage, train and give guidance to and train prosecutors. Study case dockets,
decide on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Maintenance
matters and inquest of a general and more advanced nature in the Regional
and District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft charge sheets and other
proceedings for court. Present and assist prosecutors to present the State’s
case in court, to lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on inter
alia, conviction and sentence, and in general to conduct prosecutions on behalf
of the State. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the code of
conduct, policy and directives of the NPA. Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor
with the performance assessment of staff. Perform general administrative
duties of the office. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Bloemfontein (Phuthadijhaba) Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 6001
CPP: Pretoria (Soshanguve) Motshabi Malabi Tel No: (012) 351 6864
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Bloemfontein (Phuthadijhaba) e mail: Recruit2026120@npa.gov.za
CPP: Pretoria (Soshanguve) e mail: Recruit2026132@npa.gov.za
POST 14/38 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/121 (X3 POSTS)
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R970 221 - R1 600 893 per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : DPP: Gauteng Local Division (STU)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience. At
least five years relevant criminal court work experience in advocacy and
drafting. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Extensive prosecutorial or litigation
experience with regard to common law offences such as fraud, theft, forgery
and uttering, commercial crimes and related matters. Proficiency in
prosecuting, guiding investigations in complex or more difficult matters,
including commercial matters. Knowledge of income Tax Act, Vat Act, Customs
and Excise Act. Knowledge and understanding of SARS functions and financial
or accounting background. Interpersonal skills, Written and verbal
communication skills. Administrative skills. Able to work extended hours.
Drafting charge sheets, indictments and court documents, dealing with
representations. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets, make assessments thereof and decide on the institution
of prosecution. Deal with any representations. Guide investigations in complex
or more difficult tax matters, including commercial matters. Prepare cases for
court, including the acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets,
indictments, and court documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and
cross examine witnesses, address the court on inter alia, conviction and
sentence. Manage court and case flow management of cases independently.
Study and deal with appeals and reviews. Prepare opinions and heads of
argument for complex matters and argue cases in the appropriate court.
Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal matters and general
conduct prosecutions on behalf of the state. Mentor and guide investigating
officers, prosecutors, and stakeholders. Assist in keeping proper records,
33
statistics, and reports. Assist in high profile tax matters or matters where an
increased risk element is present. Manage any portfolio assigned by the
Deputy Director managing the STU. Consult on a regular basis with all the
relevant stakeholders, including SARS officials. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Khensane Manganye Tel No: (011) 220 4266
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026121@npa.gov.za
POST 14/39 : STATE ADVOCATE REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/122
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R970 221 - R1 600 893.per annum (Level LP- 7 to LP-8), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Nelspruit
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least five (5) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Professional and
able to work independently. Willing to travel and able to work extended hours.
Excellent communication skills. Well-developed skills in legal drafting and
advocacy. Good knowledge of Asset Forfeiture Law will be an added
advantage. Excellent interpersonal, analytical and presentation skills. Strong
computer skills and knowledge of MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint.
Literacy and numeracy. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Civil litigation on behalf of the State regarding all aspects of freezing of property
and obtaining final forfeiture confiscation orders. Liaise with prosecutors on
cases with asset forfeiture potential. Draft and present asset forfeiture
applications in all courts. Train prosecutors and investigators in the use of
Asser Forfeiture Law. Keep up to date with legal developments.
ENQUIRIES : Selinah Moloto Tel No: (012) 845 6486
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026122@npa.gov.za
POST 14/40 : SENIOR FINANCIAL INVESTIGATOR REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/123
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (MMS Level 11), (total cost package)
CENTRE : Cape Town (George)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B -degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in one
of the following: Forensic Investigations, Forensic Auditing, Criminal
Investigation or equivalent. Certified Fraud Examiner will be an added
advantage. Minimum Five (5) years’ experience in financial investigation.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Strategic capability and leadership. General
management skills. People Management and Empowerment skills. The ability
to perform administrative tasks efficiently, effectively, and error free. Excellent
written and verbal communication. Ability to plan and organize work and
distinguish between urgent and important tasks/activities. Ability to achieve
excellence in delivering the planned customer service outcomes (i.e. service
levels and standards) for the NPA and ensure the highest level of customer
care and customer satisfaction. Ability to identify and solve problems by
analyzing situations and apply critical thinking in order to resolve problems and
decide on courses of action and implement the solutions developed in order to
overcome problems and constraints. Knowledge of legislation and regulations
pertaining to public service administration. Computer skills, such as MS Word,
MS Excel, MS Outlook, MS PowerPoint, etc.
DUTIES : Conduct case assessments. Conduct case planning. Conduct a detailed
financial investigation in high value and complex matters. Undertake
stakeholder engagements. Undertake all administration functions.
ENQUIRIES : Joyce Marogoa Tel No: (012) 845 6700
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026123@npa.gov.za
POST 14/41 : DISTRICT COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R655 854 - R1 508 337 per annum (Level SU-1 to SU-2), (total cost package),
(excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Pretoria Ref No: Recruit 2026/124
CPP: Klerksdorp (Potchefstroom) Ref No: Recruit 2026/125
34
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting.
Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences in Regional court. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills.
Good presentation skills. Good project management skills. Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court on
inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Pretoria Motshabi Malabi Tel No: (012) 351 6864
CPP: Klerksdorp (Potchefstroom) Flora Kalakgosi Tel No: (018) 381 9041
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Pretoria e-mail: Recruit2026124@npa.gov.za
CPP: Klerksdorp (Potchefstroom) e-mail: Recruit2026125@npa.gov.za
POST 14/42 : REGIONAL COURT PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R655 854 - R1 508 337 per annum (Level LP-5 to LP-6), (total cost package),
(excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Odi (Bafokeng) Ref No: Recruit 2026/126
CPP: Pretoria Ref No: Recruit 2026/127
CPP: Vaal Rand (Tsakane) Ref No: Recruit 2026/128
CPP: Vaal Rand (Sebokeng) Ref No: Recruit 2026/129
CPP: Vaal Rand (Spring) Ref No: Recruit 2026/130
CPP: Vaal Rand (Vereeniging) Ref No: Recruit 2026/131
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting.
Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences in regional court. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills.
Good presentation skills. Good project management skills. Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court on
inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Odi (Bafokeng) Flora Kalakgosi Tel No: (018) 381 9041
CPP: Pretoria; CPP: Vaal Rand (Tsakane) CPP: Vaal Rand (Sebokeng); CPP:
Vaal Rand (Springs) & CPP: Vaal Rand (Vereeniging) Godfrey Ramakuela Tel
No: (012) 351 6808
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Odi (Bafokeng) e-mail: Recruit2026126@npa.gov.za
CPP: Pretoria e-mail: Recruit2026127@npa.gov.za
CPP: Vaal Rand (Tsakane) e-mail: Recruit2026128@npa.gov.za
CPP: Vaal Rand (Sebokeng) e-mail: Recruit2026129@npa.gov.za
CPP: Vaal Rand (Springs) e-mail: Recruit2026130@npa.gov.za
CPP: Vaal Rand (Vereeniging) e-mail: Recruit2026131@npa.gov.za
POST 14/43 : COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/133
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Chief Directorate Communications
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
35
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Graphic Design. Proficiency in Adobe Creative Cloud, InDesign, Photoshop,
etc. Minimum two years’ relevant experience. Demonstrable competency in
acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Able to
work under pressure and meet tight deadlines daily. Reliable, interpersonal
skills, teamwork. Time management and change management. Good
knowledge of government programmes, project management and coordination
skills, client orientated and customer focus. Communication skills and
computer literacy. Drivers Licence.
DUTIES : Content creation. Internal and external communication adhoc duties. Create
engaging photo and video content for diverse audience. Story telling through
video and photos.
ENQUIRIES : Isaac Dhludhlu Tel No: (012) 845 6711
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026133@npa.gov.za
POST 14/44 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ASSETS, FLEET & FACILITIES REF NO:
RECRUIT 2026/134
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DDPP: Gqeberha
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6). Minimum
two (2) years relevant experience in Fleet, Facilities and Travel environment.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good communication skills, written and
verbal. General computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint. Willing to travel and able to work after hours. High level of
reliability and able to work independently. Knowledge of PFMA and National
Treasury Regulations. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide Asset Management services within the DDPP: Gqeberha and DPP
Makhanda areas of responsibility. Monitor the provision of assets management
services within the region. Adhere to the delegation of authority, policies and
procedures in respect of asset management. Ensure compliance with asset
management system. Barcode all new assets upon receipt. Identify redundant
assets and complete disposal process. Manage the movement of all assets.
Facilitate and manage the annual asset verification process. Ensure that
verification additions and disposals are in line with the asset management
regulations. Manage/maintain reports of assets where required. Facilitate the
process of reporting damages and losses. Provide Fleet Service Management
Services within the DDPP and DPP Makhanda areas of responsibility. Monitor
the provision of fleet management services within the region. Confirm
compliance with the fleet management policy. Report accidents and administer
claims. Ensure that fines are dealt with in terms of the approved policies.
Monitor monthly fleet vehicle usage reports. Maintain all registers and provide
monthly statistics. Ensure that the regional fleet is properly maintained.
Reconcile and confirm the correctness of monthly fuel transaction reports.
Process and submit monthly log returns. Provide Facilities Management
Services within the DDPP Gqeberha and DPP Makhanda areas of
responsibility. Monitor the provisions of facilities management services within
the region. Report al maintenance issues to the landlord department of Public
Works and Head Office. Carry out inspection on building. Faciltate, monitor on
facilities management contract as per SLA process and submit monthly vendor
performance report. Manage staff in the Assets Fleet and Facilities. Conduct
quarterly individual staff assessments. Perform any other duties deemed
necessary by supervisor/manager.
ENQUIRIES : Nosiseko Mabaleka Tel No: (012) 842 1465
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026134@npa.gov.za
POST 14/45 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LOGIS REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/135
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Financial Information Systems/ Logistics Management, Purchasing
Management, Supply Chain Management, Finance Management or
equivalent. Minimum two (2) years’ relevant experience in Logistical
Information Systems. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge of PFMA,
36
Logistical Information System (LOGIS), Treasury Regulations and Preferential
Procurement Policy framework Act. Communication skills, Organising skills
and analytical skills. Computer literacy including Microsoft Office (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook). Ability to work independently and under pressure. Good
administration skills.
DUTIES : Administer daily operations for the financial system and provide support.
Ensure proper security control in all financial systems (Transversal systems).
Implement and enforce segregation of duties in the financial systems. Reviews
of users’ access rights. Develop and ensure implementation of procedure
manuals. Ensure proper financial reporting of the department. Manage user
registration on LOGIS. Facilitate and ensure that users are trained, ensure that
there is documented request for the system. Ensure that only access to the
relevant user area is granted. Manage LOGIS user profiles and challenges.
Creation and approval of ICN.
ENQUIRIES : Rabelani Makumbane Tel No: (012) 845 6484
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026135@npa.gov.za
POST 14/46 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/136
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
communication and administrative skills. Report writing skills, good verbal and
written communication skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Excellent
administrative skills and problem-solving skills. Good analytical skills.
Computer skills such as MS word, Excel, Ms Office suite and Outlook.
Flexibility. Document administration, writing skills and task time management
skills.
DUTIES : Provide high level administrative support to the office of Senior
Prosecutor/District Court Control Prosecutor. Design and keep a well-
organized administrative system for the office. Execute a wide variety of
administrative tasks. Draft correspondence to members of the public, other
organisations, and State departments. Liaise with administration with all
matters pertaining to the administrative functioning of the office. Provide
administrative support to the legal staff, pertaining to finance, logistical and
human resources. Deliver mails, and faxes within the office and render general
administrative support such as filing, photocopying, faxing, receiving, and
dispatching documents.
ENQUIRIES : Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: (051) 410 6001
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026136@npa.gov.za
POST 14/47 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/137 (X2 POSTS)
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
communication and administrative skills. Report writing skills, good verbal and
written communication skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Excellent
administrative skills and problem-solving skills. Good analytical skills.
Computer skills such as MS word, Excel, Ms Office suite and Outlook.
Flexibility. Document administration, writing skills and task time management
skills.
DUTIES : Render general administration support services such as data capturing of
information, verifying of data accuracy, maintaining organized records,
generating reports ensuring data integrity and performing administrative tasks.
Design and keep a well-organized administrative system for the office. Execute
a wide variety of administrative tasks. Draft correspondence to members of the
public, other organisations, and State departments. Provide supply chain
clerical support services within the component. Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component. Provide human
resource and financial administration support services in the component.
Deliver mails, and faxes within the office and render general administrative
support such as filing, photocopying, faxing, receiving, and dispatching
documents.
ENQUIRIES : Motshabi Malabi Tel No: (012) 351 6864
37
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026137@npa.gov.za
POST 14/48 : FINANCE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/138
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : DPP: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Basic
numeracy skills. Knowledge of Financial Accounting dealing with processing
creditors payments and employee’s allowances such as cellphone and S&T.
Ability to work independently without constant supervision. Knowledge of
Public Finance, PERSAL; BAS and LOGIS. Good communication skills, verbal
and written. Planning and organizing skills. Good analytical skills. General
computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Process payments of service providers for the unit. Provide support to Financial
Accounting. Manage payment register. Receive all claims and invoices, check
correctness and submit to Director: Administration for approval. Capture S & T
claims and cell phone claims on PERSAL and BAS system. Administer the
petty cash for the office. Submit certified payroll to Head Office on a monthly
basis. Track creditors payments on tracking system. Distribute all finance
related policies and circulars to officials. Adherent to policies and procedures.
Liaise with customers and suppliers. Verify availability of funds and recommend
approval of expenditure. Help with compilation of regional budget. Print and
distribute expenditure reports to different managers. Compile monthly recons
and other reports. Make sure that all processed payment batches are properly
filed. Attend to all payment section related queries.
ENQUIRIES : Bongiswa Mswenyama Tel No: (047) 501 2696
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026138@npa.gov.za
POST 14/49 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/139
Strategy, Operations and Compliance: Strategy Management Office
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Computer literate (MS Office suite, MS Word, MS
Excel MS Power point and MS Project). Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge in
administration and general functions. Ability to perform administrative task
efficiently and effectively. Able to work independently and also as part of a
team. Ability to multi-task and general administrative capabilities including
reception duties. Must be able to plan and organize work and distinguish
between urgent and important tasks/ activities. Ability to work under pressure.
Honesty, highly reliable, hard worker and determined. Interpersonal skills and
excellent communication (verbal and written) and administrative skills.
DUTIES : Provide general clerical / secretarial support services with the Directorates.
Operates office equipment like fax machines and photocopiers. Collect
relevant documents to enable the Manager to perform their duties. Ensure the
effective flow of information and documents to and from the office of the
Director/s. Facilitate travel and accommodation arrangements. Attend to S& Ts’
claims for the Directors. Provide inputs in terms of procurement of goods and
services. Render administrative support services. Ensure the safekeeping of
all documents within the Directorates in line with the relevant legislation and
policies. Draft documents as required. File and retrieve documents as required.
Provide inputs in terms of the procurement of goods and services. Provide
support to the Manager regarding meetings. Collects and compile all necessary
documents for the Director/s. Coordinate logistical arrangements for meetings
when required. Take minutes during the Directorate’s meeting.
ENQUIRIES : Makgomo Thupana Tel No: (012) 845 6176
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026139@npa.gov.za
POST 14/50 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/140 (X2 POSTS)
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: East London
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound planning and
organizing skills, written and verbal communication. General computer literacy
38
skills and knowledge in programs MS Word; Excel; PowerPoint and Outlook.
Good people skills. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to
act independently.
DUTIES : Provide high level support service to the office. Design and keep a well-
organized administrative system for the office. Provide administrative duties to
the office and the unit. Execute a wide variety of administrative tasks pertaining
to the provision of support to line functionaries e.g responsible for workflow and
document tracking in the office. Type and forward correspondence to
Advocates, Prosecutors and other Stakeholders in the institution. Liaise with
corporate services with all matters pertaining to the administrative functioning
of the office. Provide high level administrative support to the legal staff,
logistical and data capturing.
ENQUIRIES : Mawande Ntsondwa Tel No: (040) 608 6800
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026140@npa.gov.za
POST 14/51 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: RECRUIT 2026/141
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : CPP: Odi (Rustenburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound planning and
organizing skills, written and verbal communication. General computer literacy
skills and knowledge in programs MS Word; Excel; PowerPoint and Outlook.
Good people skills. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to
act independently.
DUTIES : Register incoming dockets and scanning thereof. Communicate with
Prosecutors in respect of matters dealt with. Generate reports from the ECMS
for statistical purposes. Attend to queries on case flow from Prosecutors and
SAPS from the ECMS. Provide case administration and document
management.
ENQUIRIES : Flora Kalakgosi Tel No: (018) 381 9041
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026141@npa.gov.za
39
ANNEXURE J
OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
The Office of the Public Service Commission (OPSC) is an equal opportunity representative employer.
Therefore, the OPSC is intentional in promoting representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public
Service through filling these positions in line with the approved Employment Equity Plan. All candidates
whose appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representativeness are encouraged to apply.
Preference will be given to Coloureds, Indians, Whites and persons with disabilities. An indication of
representativeness profile by applicants will expedite the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : You can apply on www.psc.gov.za under “vacancies”. Forward your
application/s stating the relevant reference number to: The Acting Director-
General, Office of the Public Service Commission, Private Bag X121, Pretoria,
0001 or hand-deliver at Commission House, Office Park Block B, 536 Francis
Baard Street, Arcadia, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M Mabuza
CLOSING DATE : 13 May 2026; 16h30
NOTE : Applications must consist of a) A fully completed and signed PDF Z83
application form which came into effect on 1 January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies). b) A recent comprehensive PDF
CV with a minimum of three (3) contactable referees with their telephone
numbers and email addresses. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
bring certified copies of ID, drivers’ license and qualifications on or before the
interviews. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification(s), it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). The successful candidate will be required to obtain a top-
secret clearance issued by the State Security Agency. The OPSC will verify the
qualifications and conduct personnel suitability checks on recommended
candidates. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only, thus,
if you have not been contacted within 3 months from the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Please
take note that late applications will not be considered and the OPSC will not be
held liable. All shortlisted candidates including SMS shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an integrity (Ethical Conduct) assessment. Following the interview and
technical exercise on SMS posts, the Selection Committee will recommend a
candidate/s to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directives on the competency-based assessments).
The competency will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Note (A pre-entry
certificate (Nyukela) obtained from the National School of Government (NSG)
prior appointment for all SMS appointments is required). Applicants are advised
against the use of the old Z83 application form which was valid until 31
December 2020 because it will render such application/s invalid. All shortlisted
candidates must avail themselves on the date and time determined by the
OPSC. The OPSC reserves the right to fill or not fill any vacant post.
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/52 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RESEARCH REF NO: DD/R/NW/04/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package). The package includes
a basic salary (70%/75% of package), State’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion of
30%/25% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. The successful
candidate will be required to enter into a performance agreement within three
months after assumption of duty.
CENTRES : Public Service Commission North-West Provincial Office, Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate’s profile: The successful candidate must have an appropriate
recognized Advanced Diploma/ Bachelor Degree/ Bachelor of Technology
degree NQF level 7 in the field of Social Sciences / Monitoring and Evaluation/
Public Administration / Development Management. 3-4 years’ experience at an
Assistant Director level or equivalent level in Research, Monitoring and
Evaluation, Development of Public Administrative Practices, Data
Management, Data Analysis, Project Planning and Management. Experience
in inspections will be an added advantage. Knowledge of research practices,
human resource practices, corporate governance, financial management,
public management and administration. Knowledge of project planning. Ability
to develop research and monitoring tools. Knowledge of research
40
methodologies and research software. Report writing skills, presentation skills,
analytical skills, project management skills, people management skills,
communication skills. Proficiency in the Microsoft Office suite, e.g. Excel, Word
and PowerPoint. Must possess a valid driver’s license (with exception to people
with disabilities) and be willing to travel and work extensively both in a team
and with minimal supervision. An understanding of the Constitutional Values
and Principles (CVPs) in Section 195 and how these CVPs contribute towards
effective public service delivery. An understanding of how the post supports the
role of the Public Service Commission (PSC) regarding CVPs.
DUTIES : Conduct service delivery inspections and research. Statistical reporting, data
collection and analysis. Conduct Citizens forum, outreaches, awareness and
stakeholder engagements. Promote Constitutional Values and Principles in the
Province. Conduct monitoring and evaluation of Departmental quarterly and
annual performance in the compliance to Constitutional Values and Principles.
Provide support in conducting research on Leadership and Human Resource
Practices in the Public Service. Provide support to the Organisation through
participation in various committees of the Organisation. Evaluate the
performance of the North-West Provincial Public Service using indicators and
standards for each of the CVPs in Section 195 of the Constitution. Design and
develop research projects’ proposals and/or project plans. Conduct monitoring
and evaluation and research on Public Administration as per the mandate of
the PSC. Evaluate Public Administration practices in the Provincial
Departments and develop solutions to identified challenges. Conduct service
delivery investigations and inspections. Conduct Research in Human
Resource Management and Development Practices and develop solutions to
identified challenges. Draft reports emanating from the key performance areas,
including the report on Compliance of the Constitutional Values and Principles
(Section 196).
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mautlwa Tel No: (018) 384 1000
POST 14/53 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LEGAL SUPPORT
(X8 contract posts for 3 to 6 calendar months)
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : Limpopo Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/LS/LIM/04/2026
Mpumalanga Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/LS/MP/04/2026
North-West Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/LS/NW/04/2026
Free-State Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/LS/FS/04/2026
Kwazulu-Natal Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/LS/KZN/04/2026
Eastern Cape Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/LS/EC/04/2026
Northern Cape Provincial Office Ref No: Ref No: ASD/LS/NC/04/2026
Western Cape Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/LS/WC/04/2026
REQUIREMENTS : An applicant must be in possession of a Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. An
appropriate Bachelor’s Degree in Law (NQF Level 7). A minimum experience
of 3 years’ experience in a legal environment or equivalent experience in a
related field including in the private sector. Advanced computer skills in MS
Office Suite, including Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Good
interpersonal relations. Must be assertive, trustworthy, ethical and professional
with integrity. Must have effective administrative, organizational and
communication skills. Must be creative, motivated, self-driven, results-oriented
and initiative. Ability to work both independently and as part of a team. Ability
to work under pressure and maintain a high level of confidentiality. Must have
commitment to transformation. Must have a valid driver’s license (with
exception of disabled applicants).
DUTIES : Conduct legal research and support. Assist in drafting legal opinions for the
PSC and OPSC. Assist in providing legal advice and support to the PSC and
OPSC. Draft MoU/Contracts and provide secretariat support to the MoU
Committee. Provide legal administration support. Provide assistance in relation
to legal advisory opinions and coordinate compliance with PAIA & POPIA.
Render assistance in the management of litigation processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Ludwaba-Tyeda Tel No: (043) 643 4704 (E/Cape)
Mr S Mlisana Tel No: (051) 448 8696 (Free State)
Ms Y Mtshali Tel No: (033) 023 5958: (KZN)
Ms P Malope Tel No: (015) 023 5900 (Limpopo)
Ms S Abrahams Tel No: (013) 755 4070 (Mpumalanga)
Mr M De Bruin Tel No: (053) 823 6222 (N/Cape)
Mr JL Mautlwa Tel No: (018) 384 1000 (N/west)
41
Mr M Pretorius Tel No: (021) 421 3980 (W/Cape
POST 14/54 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL OFFICE SUPPORT
(X9 Contract Posts For 3 to 6 Calendar Months)
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : Limpopo Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/POS/LIM/04/2026
Mpumalanga Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/POS/MP/04/2026
North-West Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/POS/NW/04/2026
Gauteng Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/POS/GP/04/2026
Free-State Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/POS/FS/04/2026
Kwazulu-Natal Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/POS/KZN/04/2026
Eastern Cape Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/POS/EC/04/2026
Northern Cape Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/POS/NC/04/2026
Western Cape Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/POS/WC/04/2026
REQUIREMENTS : An applicant must be in possession of a: Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. A
National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in the field of Social Sciences, Labour
Relations/Law/Public Administration/Management, Industrial Psychology,
Office Administration/Management, Human Resources Management 2-3
years’ experience as State Administration Officer / Administrative Officer /
Personal Assistant or equivalent experience in a related field, including in the
private sector. 2-3 years’ experience in M&E and Research/ Investigations/
Ethics Management at salary level 7/8 or equivalent will serve as added
advantage. Advanced computer skills in MS Office Suite, including Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Good interpersonal relations. Must be
assertive, trustworthy, ethical and professional with integrity. Must have
effective administrative, organizational and communication skills. Must be
creative, motivated, self-driven, results-oriented and initiative. Ability to work
both independently and as part of a team. Ability to work under pressure and
maintain a high level of confidentiality. Must have commitment to
transformation. An understanding of the Constitutional Values and Principles
(CVPs) in Section 195 and how these CVPs contribute towards effective public
service delivery. An understanding of how this post supports the role of the
Public Service Commission (PSC) regarding the CVPs. Must have a valid
driver’s license (with exception of disabled applicants).
DUTIES : Provide support and assist in: Conducting investigations of Grievances and
Complaints emanating from the Provincial Departments. Handling of cases
from National Anti-Corruption Hotline. Collecting and Consolidating the six-
monthly grievance reports from Provincial Departments. Advocacy. Monitoring
and Evaluation of adherence by Provincial Departments to the Constitutional
Values and Principles Governing Public Administration. Professional Ethics.
Research Projects. Service Delivery Inspections. Collating information relating
to financial misconduct from the Provincial Departments. Management of
Financial Disclosure Framework in the Province. Compiling bi-annual report in
the implementation of the PSC recommendations and update system and
databases. Attend to ad hoc functions as may be directed by the Provincial
Director. Corporate service support (human resources management, financial
management-expenditure monitoring), supply chain management, cleaning
services, records management, facility management, security services, leave
administration, PMDS, petty cash management, management of invoices, gift
management, asset management, etc.) to the Provincial Director and
Commissioner. Perform any duties assigned by the Provincial Director and
participate in various committees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Ludwaba-Tyeda Tel No: (043) 643 4704 (E/Cape)
Mr S Mlisana Tel No: (051) 448 8696 (Free State)
Ms D Nkwanyana Tel No: (010) 023 5784 (Gauteng)
Ms Y Mtshali Tel No: (033) 023 5958 (KZN)
Ms P Malope Tel No: (015) 023 5900 (Limpopo)
Ms S Abrahams Tel No: (013) 755 4070 (Mpumalanga)
Mr M De Bruin Tel No: (053) 823 6222 (N/Cape)
Mr JL Mautlwa Tel No: (018) 384 1000 (N/west)
Mr M Pretorius Tel No: (021) 421 3980 (W/Cape)
42
POST 14/55 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATIONS OUTREACH
(X5 contract posts for 3 to 6 calendar months)
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : North-West Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/CO/NW/04/2026
Free-State Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/CO/FS/04/2026
Kwazulu-Natal Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/CO/KZN/04/2026
Eastern Cape Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/CO/EC/04/2026
Western Cape Provincial Office Ref No: ASD/CO/WC/04/2026
REQUIREMENTS : An applicant must be in possession of a Senior Certificate/ Grade 12. A
National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Communications. 2-3 years’ working
experience in the communications field. Advanced computer skills in MS Office
Suite, including Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Good interpersonal
relations. Must be assertive, trustworthy, ethical and professional with integrity.
Must have effective administrative, organizational and communication skills.
Must be creative, motivated, self-driven, results-oriented and initiative. Ability
to work both independently and as part of a team. Ability to work under
pressure and maintain a high level of confidentiality. Must have commitment to
transformation. An understanding of the Constitutional Values and Principles
(CVPs) in Section 195 and how these CVPs contribute towards effective public
service delivery. An understanding of how this post supports the role of the
Public Service Commission (PSC) regarding the CVPs. Must have a valid
driver’s license (with exception of disabled applicants).
DUTIES : To provide internal communication support. Propose research and write articles
for the internal publications. Assist with monitoring and sending out Internal
Communication e-mails to staff. Liaise with IT regarding updates on Intranet.
Take pictures during internal events. Assist with organizing Information
Sessions and other internal events. Photography. Provide External
Communication Support. Monitor and analyze newspaper articles daily and
advise management on issues requiring immediate attention. Compile and
distribute “In the News” to the Provincial based Commissioner and staff. Assist
to compile media statements and alerts. Assist with organizing media briefings
and other external events including CVP awareness programmes and Ethics
and Anti-Corruption Awareness programmes. Assist with branding during
events and exhibitions. Assist in updating the media list, management of social
media platforms such as livestreaming of PSC of events on Social Media
platforms. Assist with managing the PSC’s Social Media Accounts (e.g
Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and WhatsApp group. Assist with Community
outreach and mobilization. Assist in facilitating the resolution of service delivery
complaints through engaging all relevant stakeholders. Assist in engaging with
the citizens affected by the service delivery issues. Assist with the design and
production of branding materials including pamphlets, posters, banners and
other promotional material to stakeholders. Provide Administration support.
Compile monthly reports. Assist with evidence for quarterly reports and assist
with safekeeping of branding materials and equipment such as cameras,
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Ludwaba-Tyeda Tel No: (043) 643 4704 (E/Cape)
Mr S Mlisana Tel No: (051) 448 8696 (Free State)
Ms Y Mtshali Tel No: (033) 023 5958 (KZN)
Mr JL Mautlwa Tel No: (018) 384 1000 (N/west)
Mr M Pretorius Tel No: (021) 421 3980 (W/Cape)
POST 14/56 : STATE ADMINISTRATION OFFICER TO THE COMMISSIONER: FREE
STATE PROVINCIAL OFFICE REF NO: SAO/FS/04/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Office of The Public Service Commission, Free-State Provincial Office,
Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate
(NQF Level 4). A Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) or a National Diploma (NQF 6) in
Administration, Office Management, Management Assistant, Public
Administration or Public Management. 5 years’ experience in the Public Sector
/ Private sector of which at least 3 years must involve providing support service
to senior management. Knowledge of the public service regulatory framework
and the application thereof. Knowledge of the departmental policies and the
application thereof. Advanced Computer Literacy. Microsoft Office Operating
System. Operating office equipment. Telephone etiquette. Office etiquette.
Office administration. Above average typing skills, including minute taking.
43
Good stakeholder liaison, interpersonal and communication skills (verbal and
written). Ability to work independently and efficiently under pressure.
Approachable/friendly personality. Dedication, loyalty, reliability and honesty.
Sense of responsibility. Planning, co-ordinating and organizing. Basic
Research. Must have a valid driver’s licence with exception of people with
disabilities.
DUTIES : Rendering administrative support service to the Commissioner. Provide
secretarial and personal assistant services to the Commissioner. To control
expenditure in the Office of the Commissioner. To coordinate information for
the Commissioner’s reporting and cluster commitments. Provide personal
support to the Commissioner.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mlisana Tel No: (051) 448 8696
POST 14/57 : STATE ADMINISTRATION OFFICER TO THE COMMISSIONER:
MPUMALANGA PROVINCIAL OFFICE REF NO: SAO/MP/04/2026
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Office of The Public Service Commission, Mpumalanga Provincial Office,
Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate
(NQF Level 4). A Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) or a National Diploma (NQF 6) in
Administration, Office Management, Management Assistant, Public
Administration or Public Management. 5 years’ experience in the Public
Sector/Private sector of which at least 3 years must involve providing support
service to senior management. Knowledge of the public service regulatory
framework and the application thereof. Knowledge of the departmental policies
and the application thereof. Advanced Computer Literacy. Microsoft Office
Operating System. Operating office equipment. Telephone etiquette. Office
etiquette. Office administration. Above average typing skills, including minute
taking. Good stakeholder liaison, interpersonal and communication skills
(verbal and written). Ability to work independently and efficiently under
pressure. Approachable/friendly personality. Dedication, loyalty, reliability and
honesty. Sense of responsibility. Planning, co-ordinating and organizing. Basic
Research. Must have a valid driver’s licence with exception of people with
disabilities.
DUTIES : Rendering administrative support service to the Commissioner. Provide
secretarial and personal assistant services to the Commissioner. To control
expenditure in the Office of the Commissioner. To coordinate information for
the Commissioner’s reporting and cluster commitments. Provide personal
support to the Commissioner.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Abrahams Tel No: (013) 755 4070
POST 14/58 : STATE ADMINISTRATION OFFICER TO THE COMMISSIONER: NATIONAL
OFFICE REF NO: SAO/NO/04/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Public Service Commission House, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Ideal candidate profile: Applicants must be in possession of a Senior Certificate
(NQF Level 4). A bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) or a National Diploma (NQF 6) in
Administration, Office Management, Management Assistant, Public
Administration or Public Management. 5 years’ experience in the Public Sector
/ Private sector of which at least 3 years must involve providing support service
to senior management. Knowledge of the public service regulatory framework
and the application thereof. Knowledge of the departmental policies and the
application thereof. Advanced Computer Literacy. Microsoft Office Operating
System. Operating office equipment. Telephone etiquette. Office etiquette.
Office administration. Above average typing skills, including minute taking.
Good stakeholder liaison, interpersonal and communication skills (verbal and
written). Ability to work independently and efficiently under pressure.
Approachable/friendly personality. Dedication, loyalty, reliability and honesty.
Sense of responsibility. Planning, co-ordinating and organizing. Basic
Research. Must have a valid driver’s licence with exception of people with
disabilities.
DUTIES : Rendering administrative support service to the Commissioner. Provide
secretarial and personal assistant services to the Commissioner. To control
expenditure in the Office of the Commissioner. To coordinate information for
44
the Commissioner’s reporting and cluster commitments. Provide personal
support to the Commissioner.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Giyose Tel No: (012) 352 1145
45
ANNEXURE K
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Supreme Court of Appeal: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X20612, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver applications to the Free State High
Court, Corner President Brand and Fontein Street, Bloemfontein, 9301.
Gauteng/Pretoria/Johannesburg: Quoting the relevant reference number,
direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand delivered
to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
Eastern Cape/Mthatha: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address:
Private Bag X13012, Cambridge 5206, East London. Applications can also be
hand delivered to 59 Western Avenue, Sanlam Park Building, 2nd Floor,
Vincent 5242, East London.
CLOSING DATE : 12 May 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
posts will be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access
to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment for SMS, a candidate
would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate
to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online
course, endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
46
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/59 : LAW RESEARCHER REF NO: 2026/05/OCJ (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Free State High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB degree or a four-year recognized
legal qualification. A minimum of three (3) years’ legal research experience.
Superior court or litigation experience, An LLM degree and a valid driver’s
license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and skills: Excellent research and analytical skills.
Report writing and editing skills. Excellent communication skills (written and
verbal). Computer literacy (MS Word, Outlook and Internet), (Westlaw,
LexisNexis, Jutastat). Planning and organizing. Ability to integrate knowledge
from diverse sources. Accuracy and attention to detail. Interpersonal skills.
Problems solving skills. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work
independently.
DUTIES : Provide support to legal research functions for the Judges and other Court
officials. Provide support with legal research on various legal issues, statutes,
rules, regulations, and case law. Analyse and apply complex legal principles
and provide summaries to the Judges. Provide research support to Judges in
the preparation of hearings and trials. Carry out research and retrieve all
material from all sources in both hard copy and electronic formats on legal
issues as requested by a Judge. Study all the relevant material and provide a
thorough analysis thereof. Prepare and compile legal opinions. Provide support
to the Judges with legal arguments analysis submitted by litigants and evaluate
merits of each argument. Research supporting and opposing case law
(precedent) and provide recommendations to the Judges. Review legal issues,
arguments, and relevant case law in the form of legal memos. Prepare a
comprehensive memorandum on the outcome of the legal research. Provide
support with drafting of clear consistent and comprehensive judgments.
Provide support to Judges in reviewing and proofreading draft judgment(s) to
ensure clarity and accuracy. Proofread all judgments, articles, speeches and
conference papers with respect to spelling and grammar. Quality assure all
references and footnotes in all judgments and legal articles against the original
text to ensure correctness and accuracy. Correct mistakes (typos) with the help
of track changes so that Judges can accept or decline any proposed changes.
Ensure that Judges are up to date on recent developments in case law, practice
directives and legislation. Quality assure the maintenance of knowledge of
recent legal developments, new legislation, and relevant case law. provide
support to the monitoring of legal journals and ensure that Judges have access
to the latest legal information. Keep up breast with recent developments in
relevant areas of law, such as legislative changes, new precedents, and
emerging legal trends.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. Ms T Nzimande Tel No: (010) 494 9238
HR Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2026/05/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
47
POST 14/60 : LAW RESEARCHER REF NO: 2026/06/OCJ
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Supreme Court of Appeal: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB degree or four-year recognized
legal qualification. A minimum of three (3) years legal research experience.
Sound knowledge of domestic and international legal databases. A valid
driver’s license and an LLM degree (full dissertation) will serve as an added
advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge
and skills: Excellent research and analytical skills. Report writing and editing
skills. Excellent communication skills (written and verbal). Understanding of the
Constitution and relevant legislations. Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability to
access and utilize computer research programmes (e.g. Westlaw, LexisNexis,
Jutastat). Planning and organizing. Ability to integrate knowledge from diverse
sources. Accuracy and attention to detail. Interpersonal and Problems solving
skills. Ability to work under pressure and ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Perform all legal duties for the Judges to enable them to prepare judgments.
Research and retrieve all material from all sources in both hard copy and
electronic format on legal issues, as requested by the Judges and other
personnel of the Court. Read all the relevant materials and analyse them
thoroughly. Discuss all possible variations on a legal point with colleagues
and/or the Judge. Prepare a comprehensive memorandum on the outcome of
the research. Proofread all judgments, articles, speeches and conference
papers. Verify all references and footnotes in all judgments and legal articles
against the original text for correctness. Correct documents with the help of
track changes to allow for the acceptance/rejection of the proposed changes.
Draft speeches, conference notes and legal articles. Monitor and bring to the
attention of Judges of the Court recent developments in case law and
jurisprudence. Attend to additional duties as assigned.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms S Collins Tel No: (051) 492 4623
HR Related Enquiries: Ms N. de la Rey Tel No: (051) 492 4585
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/06/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 14/61 : LAW RESEARCHER REF NO: 2026/07/OCJ
Re advert, Candidates who previously applied need not to reapply.
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Supreme Court of Appeal: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB degree or four-year recognized
legal qualification. A minimum of three (3) years legal research experience.
Sound knowledge of domestic and international legal databases. A valid
driver’s license and an LLM degree (full dissertation) will serve as an added
advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge
and skills: Excellent research and analytical skills. Report writing and editing
skills. Excellent communication skills (written and verbal). Understanding of the
Constitution and relevant legislations. Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability to
access and utilize computer research programmes (e.g. Westlaw, LexisNexis,
Jutastat). Planning and organizing. Ability to integrate knowledge from diverse
sources. Accuracy and attention to detail. Interpersonal and Problems solving
skills. Ability to work under pressure and ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Perform all legal duties for the Judges to enable them to prepare judgments.
Research and retrieve all material from all sources in both hard copy and
electronic format on legal issues, as requested by the Judges and other
personnel of the Court. Read all the relevant materials and analyse them
thoroughly. Discuss all possible variations on a legal point with colleagues
and/or the Judge. Prepare a comprehensive memorandum on the outcome of
the research. Proofread all judgments, articles, speeches and conference
papers. Verify all references and footnotes in all judgments and legal articles
against the original text for correctness. Correct documents with the help of
track changes to allow for the acceptance/rejection of the proposed changes.
Draft speeches, conference notes and legal articles. Monitor and bring to the
48
attention of Judges of the Court recent developments in case law and
jurisprudence. Attend to additional duties as assigned.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms S Collins Tel No: (051) 492 4623
HR Related Enquiries: Ms N. de la Rey Tel No: (051) 492 4585
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/07/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 14/62 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2026/08/OCJ
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Supreme Court of Appeal: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade twelve (12) certificate. An LLB
Degree, Bachelor of Law or a minimum of 20 modules completed towards an
LLB or BA Law will serve as an added advantage. A minimum of two (2) years’
secretarial experience. Experience in a Legal/ Court environment and a valid
driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Proficiency in English. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Administration and organizational
skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills. Ability to meet strict deadlines and to
work under pressure. Attention to detail. Customer care service skills and
excellent typing skills. Confidentiality and time management. Computer literacy
(MS Word) and research capabilities. Confidentiality and time management.
DUTIES : Provide general legal secretarial/ legal administrative duties to the Judge.
Typing (or formatting) of draft memorandums, directions, opinions, letters for
or by the Judge. Manage and type correspondence, judgements and orders for
the Judge (including Dictaphone typing). Arrange and diarise appointments,
meetings and official visits. Make travel and accommodation arrangements for
circuit meetings etc. with the relevant administration unit at the Court. Store,
keep and safeguard all case files and update the case files with postponements
orders and/ or made by the Judge. Update files with documents received.
Update exhibit and witness list in criminal matters. Perform digital recordings
of Court proceedings on urgent Court cases after hours or on circuit Court and
ensure the integrity of recordings. Accompany the Judge to Court and keep a
record of times (start and end times daily, including adjournments. Compile
Court statistics daily and ensure accurate updates on the statistical tools.
Management of the Judge’s vehicle, logbook and servicing thereof. Compile
data and prepare reports and documents for assigned Judges as necessary,
including expense reports, continuing legal hours, financial disclosure
statements and case management. Arrange refreshments for the Judge and
his or her visitors and attend to their needs. Manage the Judge’s library and
the updating of documentation. Execute legal research as directed by the
Judge and comply with all Departmental prescripts, policies, procedures and
guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr. V.Z J Zwane Tel No: (051) 492 4623
HR Related Enquiries: Ms D.S.J Peters Tel No: (051) 492 4523
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/08/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 14/63 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ASSET CONTROLLER REF NO: 2026/09/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Makhanda
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate or equivalent
qualification as recoqnised by SAQA. No experience is required. A valid driver’s
license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Computer literacy (MS Word/Excel).
Good communication skills (written and verbal). Good interpersonal relations,
planning and organization skills. Good problem-solving skills. Ability to work
under pressure. Good time keeping. Telephone etiquette.
DUTIES : Render efficient and effective support to the Court. Facilitate the maintenance
of a complete, reliable, and accurate asset register for the Departmental owned
49
assets. Conduct physical verification of assets to ensure the existence of
assets as well as completeness of the asset register. Identify and report stolen
or lost assets and unserviceable, redundant, damaged, underperforming, and
obsolete assets. Monitor leased assets register and expiring contracts.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms L Frazer Tel No: (046) 603 5000
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/09/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 14/64 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: 2026/10/OCJ (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226 – R200 523 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of Grade 10 or equivalent qualification as
recognised by SAQA. Basic Security Officer’s course registered with PSIRA. A
minimum of one-year experience in security industry. A valid Driver’s license
will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a
pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and Skills: Good communication skills (verbal and written). Good
interpersonal and public relation skills.
DUTIES : Ensure that the outsourced security officers render an efficient and effective
service to the court on a daily basis. Ensure that all security and biometrics
system put in place function effectively and efficiently within the buildings on a
daily basis. Meet the outsourced security officials every morning to get report
of the performance of security and biometric system on a daily basis. Report
all incidents around the Court premises to the relevant authorities immediately.
Treating all clients, Court users and colleagues equally and professionally.
Capture the biometrics data for new personnel and delete for personnel leaving
the Department. Attend meetings with SAPS, EMS, Fire brigade and TMPD
during high profile cases. Attend meetings with outsourced Security Officials
every month to evaluate security performance at the Court on daily basis.
Ensure that no liquor /video cameras allowed in the building unless permission
granted. Assist and monitor the performance of the outsourced security officials
during peak hours and high-profile cases. Review camera footages and save
the incidents. Monitor all access points for effective access control. Monitor all
movements, events, and activities within the Department’s premises using
CCTV equipment. Undertake building inspections and conduct primary patrols
to identify, assess, and verify conditions. Apply emergency procedures (in
situations like bomb scares, riots etc.) and alert emergency services and
Department management. Monitor and respond to alarm system. Update the
information on the occurrence book/ register as and when required. Liaise with
supervisor to verify the information recorded and ensure information is correct.
Crowd control by informing the security officials of the floors overcrowded.
Ensure no property of the Court leaves the building without authorisation.
Assist the outsourced security officials in controlling the number of visitors
entering the Court premises in groups. Request and accompany during the
sweeping of the building by the bomb squad prior to VIPs entering the premises
and before the Court term starts. Conduct building inspections and patrols.
Ensure that everyone entering the building is subjected to access control
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr P Nkone Tel No: (012) 492 6796
HR Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2026/10/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goal
50
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Small Business Development is an equal opportunity & affirmative action employer. It
is the DSBD’s intention to promote representativity (race, gender, youth & disability). The candidature of
persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by email to the relevant email and by quoting
the relevant reference number provided on the subject line. Acceptable formats
for submission of documents are limited to MS Word, PDF. Candidates must
submit applications to recruitment8@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference
number for the abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when
applying i.e., “REF NO: CD – FS&C”
CLOSING DATE : 15 May 2026 at 16:00. Applications received after the closing date will not be
considered.
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed Z83 form and a recent comprehensive CV. Submission
of copies of qualifications, Identity document, and any other relevant
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All non-SA citizens will
be required to submit proof of permanent residence in South Africa when
shortlisted. Personnel suitability checks will be done during the selection
process. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access to their
social media accounts. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 1 month of the closing
date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. In the pursuit of diversity and redress, appointments will be made
in line with the DSBD EE Plan. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment, as well as complete a financial interest
declaration form within one month of appointment and annually thereafter. The
Department reserves the right not to fill or withdraw any advertised post. Note:
a new application for employment (Z83) form is applicable from 01 January
2021. The new form can be downloaded online at
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/65 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: FUNDING SUPPORT AND COORDINATION REF NO:
CD – FS&C
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate, undergraduate qualification on NQF level 7 as recognised
by SAQA in Development Finance / Economics / Financial Accounting /
Corporate Finance / Business Leadership / Business Administration / Public
Administration or equivalent/related. An Honours qualification in addition to the
above will be an added advantage. Possess a minimum of 5 years of
experience at a senior managerial level with some in Development Finance or
Funding Support and Coordination environment. Experience of having worked
in the environment that is audited annually (External Auditors and Internal
Auditors) and demonstrate a level of compliance with set rules. Demonstrate
knowledge of the Constitution, Public Service Act, 1994, Public Administration
Management Act, 2014, Public Finance Management Act, 1999, Treasury
Regulations and the National Development Plan. A compulsory pre-entry into
the Senior Management Service Certificate from the National School of
Government will be required before assumption of duty
(https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme). Display
competencies in contracting and management of service level agreements,
negotiate and communicate with stakeholders and clients (service providers
and beneficiaries) from diverse backgrounds, sound decision-making that
provides for integration during stressful situations and Analyse information on
a multi-dimensional level (lateral and out-of-the-box).
DUTIES : Lead and assume responsibility for the coordination of funding opportunities
for MSMEs and Cooperatives. Negotiate and mobilise public and private sector
funding for MSMEs and Co-operatives and coordinate implementation thereof.
Oversee the development of funding policy, supporting norms and standards
51
(standardized requirements) and implementation thereof, inclusive of a
payment tracking platform for MSMEs and Co-operatives. Oversee the design
of blended financial support initiatives that supports business growth for
MSMEs and Co-operatives. Champion advancement of competitiveness for
informal businesses, Co-operatives and MSMEs through an integrated
approach across the provincial and local government structures. Communicate
with internal and external stakeholders, drive the mandate of the department
and lead complex discussions without compromising the integrity of the
Department. Lead and manage operations, financial, human and physical
resources of the chief directorate
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office at
Mr. Maanda Ndou at 072 242 6245 and Ms. Nthabiseng Mahlangu at 072 197
7511
52
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref
no. must appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided the application
may not be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources
Management, Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic
Campus, corner of Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside,
Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 13 May 2026
NOTE : The application must include a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications received
that do not comply with this requirement will not be considered. Certified copies
of qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
panel for Senior Management Services (SMS) positions will further recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency-based assessment.
The Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela Programme) as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) must be completed
before an appointment on SMS level can be considered. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. No
appointment on SMS level will take place without the successful completion of
the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. Background
verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part of the
selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. The dtic reserves the right not to fill any
advertised position(s). The dtic is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer, and candidates whose appointment will promote representivity, will
be given preference.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the EE requirements for the Internship
Programme, advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 13 dated 17 April
2026, should read: In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be
given to candidates whose appointments will promote representivity”
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/66 : DIRECTOR: AGRO-PROCESSING 2 REF NO: IC&G-102
Overview: To lead and manage the development and growth of the Agro-
processing sectors
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by the SAQA in Agriculture or Agro-
processing studies/ Economics / Commerce. 5 years’ experience at a middle /
senior managerial level in the Agriculture or Agro-processing environment in
both public or private sector. Key Requirements: Development of Agro-
processing sector strategy. Development and Promotion of Priority Niche Agro-
Sectors (Cannabis, Rooibos, Beverages, Wine, Horticulture, Red Meat and
Piggery). Increase value added processing by small business. Stakeholder
management. Research and analysis. Direct and Manage the Directorate.
Monitoring and Evaluation.
DUTIES : Provide leadership in the development of the Agro-processing sector strategy.
Develop the furniture industry strategy, organic produce industry strategy and
Rooibos and Honey bush products strategy. Provide leadership in the
development of Agro-processing sector policies. Manage and direct the Agro-
processing Industrial Policy Planning process. Engage in continual policy
53
advocacy and co-ordination in the Agro-processing sector. Development and
Review of National Agro-processing framework and technical support to
Agriculture & Agro-processing Master Plan. To establish a coordinated, cross-
sectoral framework that strengthens South Africa’s Agro-processing value
chains, enhances competitiveness, promotes transformation, and drives export
growth. Development and implementation of Hemp and Cannabis Master Plan.
Present the framework to the relevant departments. Facilitate the access of the
dtic support programmes by small scale food processor. Identify potential small
enterprise to be targeted for support. Build and maintain strong relationships
with the stakeholders. Establish contact and set up information sharing session
with other units in the dtic Liaising, consulting and networking with appropriate
and relevant stakeholders for developing joint programs. Represent the
department in all forums and focus addressing Agro-processing challenges.
Provide analysis of the value chain in the Agro processing sector. Consolidate
all research findings to formulate Agro processing sector procedure and
strategy in line with Industrial Policy. Manage strategic planning for the
directorate. Develop the strategic focus and policy direction for the directorate.
Ensure the maintenance of effective internal administration of the directorate,
e.g. the filing of all documents, the maintenance of records, approval of
procurement and expenditure and all reporting requirements. Continuously
review policies and methodologies and benchmark against international best
practice. Manage consultants appointed to conduct studies Provide support
with the implementation of programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
males, African Females and persons with disabilities.
POST 14/67 : DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT REF NO: CMSB-137
Overview: To provide strategic leadership, tactical oversight, and operational
management of the Department’s ICT infrastructure environment that enables
the dtic to fulfil its mandate.
Re-advertised with the correct key requirements. Applicants who previously
applied need not re-apply and will still be considered.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification at NQF level 7 in Computer Science, Informatics, Computer
Engineering, or a relevant qualification. 5 years of relevant experience at a
middle/senior managerial level in an ICT environment. Key Requirements:
Experience leading ICT infrastructure, platforms, and operations. Proven
experience managing enterprise servers, storage, networks (fixed & wireless),
telephony, and end user computing. Experience in capacity planning,
performance optimisation, backup, disaster recovery, and business continuity.
Experience managing- SLAs, OLAs, and vendor/service provider relationships
(including SITA/GITOC). Experience in infrastructure configuration, change,
incident, and problem management. Experience preparing technical and
strategic inputs for MTEF, business plans, and budget submissions.
Experience managing large ICT programme budgets and assets. Strong
stakeholder engagement with executives, campus tenants, SOEs, and other
government entities. People management experience, including building
technical capability and managing multidisciplinary teams. Knowledge of IT
governance, security standards, Microsoft platform, operating systems, and
system administration.
DUTIES : Strategic Planning & Alignment: Lead multiyear infrastructure strategy and
roadmap; translate strategy into operational plans and KPIs. Provide inputs
into business planning, MTEF and budget pro-cesses, monitor implementation.
Infrastructure Platforms & Technology Management: Manage physical, virtual
and cloud server platforms, storage and databases. Oversee networks,
telephony, collaboration platforms and end user device lifecycle management.
Service Management, Configuration & Performance: Govern configuration
management and infrastructure baselin-es; lead capacity planning and
performance optimisation. Manage incident, problem and change processes
and ensure effective backup, DR and business continuity services. Vendor,
SLA & Outsourcing Governance: Define and monitor SLAs/OLAs with external
providers and internal units; manage vendor performance and escalations.
Stakeholder Management: Engage executives, business units, SITA, GITOC,
SSA and campus tenants; prepare infrastructure performance and governance
reports. Directorate Management & Capability Development: Manage financial
54
resources, assets and human resources of the directorate; promote innovation,
accountability and service excellence
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African males
and persons with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/68 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RESOURCE BASED INDUSTRIES REF NO: IIAF
& A-031
Overview: To provide an investment promotion service in the Resource Based
Industries (Agro Processing, Aquaculture, Mining & Downstream Mineral
Beneficiation)
-
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 in Business Management /Investment /Finance
/Economics/Marketing or relevant qualification. 3-5 years’ experience in
Industry/Marketing / Finance in both private or public sector or relevant
Environment. Key Requirements: Experience in investment promotion or
sector development. Understanding of agro processing, aquaculture, mining or
mineral beneficiation value chains. Experience in lead identification,
preliminary project packaging and inv-estor engagement. Stakeholder
management with provinces, industry and export councils. Research and
analytic skills for initial project assessment and sector trend analysis.
Familiarity with CRM and project tracking systems for investor pipelines.
Project coordination skills and basic financial monitoring experience. Good
written and verbal communication skills and ability to travel as required.
DUTIES : Attraction, retention and expansion of investment: Provide inputs into
recruitment strategies; support implementation of promotion programmes and
investor targeting. Lead generation and project marketing. Identify and
authenticate leads; prepare initial investment project lists and support
packaging for conferences. Stakeholder management: Engage and maintain
relations with public and private stakeholders and build partnerships. Customer
relations management: Support CRM quality assurance and follow up on
investment enquiries and leads. Sub directorate support: Assist with reporting,
monitoring operational risks and administrative management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563- / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
Males, Coloured Males, White Males and persons with disabilities.
POST 14/69 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LIQUOR LAW & POLICY REF NO: CCRB-049
Overview: To provide technical support in the development of policies,
legislation, regulations and review of the Liquor law environment
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Minimum: A qualification at NQF level 7 in Law / Politics /
Economics or relevant qualification. Experience: Minimum: 3-5 years’
experience in Law, Politics, Economics in public or private environment.
Training: Minimum: Computer Literacy (MS Office packages) Project
Management Legislative and regulatory framework. Key Requirements:
Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Regulations, Public Service
Act, PFMA and Treasury Regulations and Liquor Act 59 of 2003.
DUTIES : Provide support in the development of policies and legislations related to Liquor
law regulations. Provide inputs into the development of policies and legislation
or other legal prescripts related to Liquor law and regulations. Provide inputs
on draft policy document based on research material and consultations
conducted. Facilitate stakeholder consultations by inviting, confirming
attendance, attending and taking minutes in stakeholders’ consultations.
Produce all recorded material from consultations and guiding on principles
agreed upon in the consultations. Provide administrative support in the
facilitation of the Cluster and Parliamentary process for introducing the policy
or bill into Cluster, Cabinet and Parliament, and for gazetting. Facilitate the
coordinating of legislative drafting process and participate in various legislative
development processes. Conduct desktop research for domestic and
international policies processes on Liquor law and Policy. Collate research
55
material, case law, articles in relation to Liquor Law and Policy. Compile report
based on research material in the preparation of inputs into the position papers
for domestic and international policy processes. Facilitate the preparation,
compilation and consolidation of the dtic’ positions on policies and legislation
of other government departments. Provide inputs in the compilation of the
presentations for intergovernmental fora, workgroups and public events.
Organise and participate in domestic liquor related engagements and
participate in international engagements. Provide inputs into research
conducted on policies, bills, amendments and regulation on Liquor law and
policy. Stakeholder Management. Compile and update stakeholder database.
Submit documents meant for public consultations to key stakeholders. Liaise
with stakeholders on the provision of inputs timeously. Conduct education and
awareness campaign. Compile a draft response to queries from the public and
key stakeholders on liquor related matters. Provide support to the directorate
in conducting education and awareness workshops on Liquor legislation.
Provide secretariat to the National Liquor meetings. Organise engagements
with National and Provincial departments, Provincial Boards and industry on
liquor matters. Prepare agenda for the meetings. Prepare briefing packs for the
meetings. Capture meetings’ deliberations and resolutions and follow up on the
activities and resolution adopted.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
Males, Coloured Males and Females, White Males.
POST 14/70 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: ODG-018
Overview: To provide a secretarial and administrative function to the Chief-
Director and facilitate the smooth administrative operation within the Chief
Directorate: Chief Risk Officer.
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate with a Secretarial Certificate or Diploma. 1-2 years'
Experience in a Secretarial or Office Management Environment. Key
Requirements: Experience performing advanced typing, minute-taking and
record-keeping. Experience managing diaries, scheduling appointments and
coordinating meetings. Experience drafting routine correspondence, briefings
and reports. Experience in managing travel arrangements, accommodation
and claims processing. Experience handling procurement of office
requirements and monitoring office expenditure. Experience providing high-
level reception and telephone management with discretion. Ability to collate
and scrutinise submissions and prepare briefing notes and agendas. Good
organisational, communication and interpersonal skills; attention to detail.
DUTIES : Receive calls, perform advanced typing and operate office equipment; finalise
enquiries and manage telephone discretion. Compile realistic schedules of
appointments and coordinate engagements. Ensure flow and safekeeping of
documents; collate progress, monthly and management reports; draft routine
documents. Prepare meeting packs, record minutes/decisions, follow-up on
actions and prepare briefing notes for the manager. Collect and coordinate
documents related to the manager's budget; monitor expenditure and assist
with MTEF inputs. Arrange travel, accommodation and meeting logistics;
procure stationery and ensure the office is properly furnished. Maintain filing
systems, manage document safekeeping and retrieve documentation for
audits.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
Males, Coloured Females, Coloured Males, Indian Females, Indian Males and
White Males.
56
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Department of Transport is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment
equity targets. Preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in
achieving its Employment Equity targets at these specific levels in terms of the Department’s
Employment Equity Plan, therefore White male / female, Coloured male/ female, Indian male / female and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Transport, Private Bag X193, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at
the 159 Forum Building, Cnr Struben and Bosman Street, Pretoria for attention
Recruitment Unit. Room 4034 or email to: Recruitment@dot.gov.za or at e-
recruitment system: erecruit.transport.gov.za. Note: email applications must be
sent as one attachment to avoid non-delivery of the email and only quotes the
name of the post you are applying for on the Subject Line as directed on the
post note.
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a completed new Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department, (or obtainable at). Applicants must fill in
full new Z83 form part A, B, C, and D. A recent updated comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
dates). Applicants will submit certified copies of all qualifications and ID
document on the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process; the
logistics will be communicated to candidates prior to the interviews.
Recommended candidates will also be required to attend a Psychometric
Assessments as part of the recruitment process. Recommended candidates
will also be required to generic managerial competency assessment after the
interviews also take a note that National School of Governance (NGS) has
introduce compulsory SMS pre-entry certificate with effect from 01 April 2020
as Minimum Entry Requirements for Senior Management Services (submitted
prior to appointment) and can be accessed through the following link:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The
successful candidate must disclose to the Director-General particulars of all
registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and employment
contract with the Director-General within three months from the date of
assumption of duty. The successful candidate must be willing to sign an oath
of secrecy with the Department. Applicants will be expected to be available for
selection interviews and assessments at a time, date and place as determined
by the Department. An offer letter will only be issued to the successful
candidate once the following has been verified educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. Please
note: Correspondence will only be entered into with short-listed candidates.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/71 : DIRECTOR: AIR TRANSPORT REF NO: DOT/HRM/2026/21
Branch: Civil Aviation
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), of which 30% can be
structured according to individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 7 qualification as recognised by SAQA in Transport and
Logistics Management / Transport Management/ Transport Economics / Public
Administration with minimum of 5 year’s working experience at a middle/senior
managerial level in the aviation sector. Knowledge and skills: Understanding of
global and regional aviation landscape. Thorough understanding of the role of
aviation in the national economy. Thorough understanding of the international
civil aviation system and the role of International Civil Aviation Organisation
(ICAO). An understanding of regional initiatives as embodied by the African
Union (AU) and the new partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), African
Civil Aviation Commission (AFCAC), SADC Civil Aviation Committee, SADC
Aviation Safety Organisation, etc. Negotiation and problem-solving skills. A
57
proven leadership and management skills. Report writing skills. A
demonstrated ability to lead and manage teams, projects and budgets.
Communication; Financial Management; Strategic capability & leadership;
people management and empowerment; Project/Programme management;
Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Maintain and enhance South Africa’s position on bilateral air transport. Manage
all aspects relating to licensing and permits, safety and security. Participate in
project teams to achieve a multi-disciplinary approach to meet set objectives
of the Department and South Africa. Manage the resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Elizabeth Mpye Tel No: (012) 309 3446
POST 14/72 : DIRECTOR: ROAD ASSET AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DOT/HRM/2026/23
Branch: Road Transport
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), of which 30% can be
structured according to individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 7 qualification as recognised by SAQA in Civil
Engineering with a minimum working experience of 5 years at a middle/senior
managerial level within the road infrastructure development field. Knowledge
and Skill: A sound knowledge and experience in the development of the road
infrastructure standards and guidelines. Knowledge and understanding of the
guidelines and specifications relevant to civil engineering in South Africa.
Extensive knowledge and understanding of the road infrastructure
development and roads supervision. Knowledge and understanding of the
National Land Transport Act, Engineering, Management and Leadership skills.
Knowledge and understanding of the Road Transport Committees. Knowledge
of the transport sector. Deep knowledge and understanding of the road asset
and quality management. Background on Civil Engineering Infrastructure.
Compilation of technical reports and advisory. Coordination of stakeholders
and forums. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Report writing skills. Presentation skills. Communication; Financial
Management; Strategic capability & leadership; people management and
empowerment; Project/Programme management; Client orientation and
customer focus; Change management.
DUTIES : Develop road asset management performance indicators. Conduct and
maintain an audit of existing road asset management systems. Determine and
set minimum standards and requirements for road asset management systems
at all levels of authority. Enter into memorandum of understanding with road
authorities for timely upgrading of information on pavement, gravel and bridge
management systems in line with framework and funding requirements.
Mobilise funding sources to ensure authorities are able to update information
on their systems. Develop the South African road asset management policy
and guidelines. Develop and manage a centralized road asset management
system. Manage and coordinate road infrastructure safety audits and quality
assurance. Coordinate a safety audit strategy and framework with all key role
players and stakeholders. Manage and monitor the implementation of
infrastructure safety audits. Manage road quality assurance and traffic signage.
Coordinate disaster management programmes. Develop road sector and
disaster preparedness and response plans. Develop road resource inventory
database. Maintain liaison with provinces on and treasury on funding for
disaster relief. Manage the resources of the Directorate. Provide guidance and
adequate support to staff and ensure capacity development of staff in the
Directorate. Ensure compliance with all administrative requirements,
regulations, rules and instructions pertaining to the Directorate. Establish and
maintain governance and administrative system's continuity within the work of
the Directorate. Ensure performance agreements are in line with business plan.
Prepare and submit implementation plans. Authorise expenditure. Monitor
quality control of work. Ensure the compilation of the annual report, annual
performance plan and strategic plan of the Directorate. Monitor budget levels.
Monitor the planning, organising and delegation of work. Ensure monitoring &
evaluation is carried out in all areas of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Malapane Tel No: (012) 309 3543
58
POST 14/73 : DIRECTOR: ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING AND COORDINATION
REF NO: DOT/HRM/2026/24
Branch: Road Transport
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), of which 30% can be
structured according to individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Civil Engineering with
a minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level within
the road infrastructure development field. Knowledge and Skill: A sound
knowledge and experience in the development of the road infrastructure
standards and guidelines. Knowledge and understanding of the National Land
Transport Act. Engineering; Management and Leadership. Knowledge and
understanding of the COTOs. Sound knowledge of the PFMA, DORA and the
Treasury regulations. Computer literate (Design and GIS). Project
Management skills. Analytical and problem-solving skills. Communication;
Financial Management; Strategic capability & leadership; people management
and empowerment; Project/Programme management; Client orientation and
customer focus; Change management.
DUTIES : Determine road management strategies for effective network development
across the three spheres of government. Develop road management strategies
for the 6 different classes of roads as per RISFSA reclassification. Ensure
implementation of best practice delivery models for roads development and
management across authorities with carrying capacities across the spheres.
Develop and facilitate detailed project planning for nationally driven road
projects. Manage the handling of inquiries and road infrastructure queries.
Manage road freight corridor development and networks. Provide a road freight
data management service. Manage the planning and operation of the overload
control network. Manage the development of intermodal facilities. Facilitate and
monitor overload control strategy implementation programmes. Support freight
logistics strategy to achieve national and regional objectives. Promote the
integration of NMT into public transport system and NMT designs, vehicle
standards and guidelines. Facilitate the development and integration of NMT
master plans on all three spheres of government. Develop and promote the
use of alternative NMT and IMT transport systems. Research, benchmark and
promote new NMT technologies in accordance with the Copenhagen resolution
on climate change. Develop and monitor NMT designs, vehicular standards
and guidelines. Develop, update and implement rural roads development
strategy and programmes. Assess and contribute to the infrastructure
components of rural municipalities' IDP's road projects (Preparation of the
master plan for roads to ensure full connectivity to all rural areas and towns).
Develop and manage intergovernmental co-ordinating mechanisms for
effective road delivery at the municipal sphere and horizontally-DOT / COGTA
/ NT/ SALGA. Monitor and evaluate rural road development programme.
Manage the resources of the Directorate. Ensure compliance with all
administrative requirements, regulations, rules and instructions pertaining to
the branch. Establish and maintain governance and administrative system's
continuity within the work of the branch. Develop financial reports for
forecasting, trending and results analysis. Prepare and submit implementation
plans. Evaluate projected spending plans. Monitor quality control of work.
Ensure the compilation of the annual report and strategic plan of the chief
directorate. Monitor the planning, organising and delegation of work. Ensure
monitoring & evaluation is carried out in all areas of the chief directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Malapane Tel No: (012) 309 3543
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/74 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK AND BUSINESS CONTINUITY REF NO:
DOT/HRM/2026/24
Branch: Office of The Director-General
Directorate: Risk Management
(24 Months Contract)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Risk Management /
Auditing with three 3 years’ experience at a management or Assistant Director
level in Risk Management or Compliance or Ethics and Business Continuity
Management. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of the Public Finance and
59
Management Act (PFMA), Knowledge and understanding of Treasury
Regulations and guidelines, Public Service Anti-Corruption Strategy and
departmental anti-corruption measures, Knowledge of the principles and
practice of risk management, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act,
5 of 2000 ("PPPFA"), Knowledge and understanding of National Treasury Risk
Management Framework, Internal control and assurance, ERM concepts,
frameworks and methodologies, Knowledge of Risk Maturity Model (IRMSA),
Knowledge of risk management policies and, procedures Knowledge of risk
management principles and practice, Knowledge Business Continuity
Management environment, Knowledge of ethics Management policies and
procedures, Knowledge of Public Sector Ethics Management Framework,
Knowledge of Public Sector Compliance Management Framework, Knowledge
of Business Continuity Institute's Good Practice Guidelines. Communication –
Verbal & Written Communication. Computer literacy. Governance related
information. Financial Management. Strategic capability & leadership (SCL).
People management & empowerment (PME). Project/Programme
Management (PPM). Client orientation & customer focus. Change
management. Willing to be available after hours. A valid Driver’s License.
DUTIES : Develop and implement the Business Continuity Ethics and Compliance Risk
Management Frameworks, Strategies and Protocols. Define the internal and
external context and stakeholders of the department. Develop and implement
methodologies, models and systems. Facilitate the development of the
business continuity plan with other role players within the department ensuring
alignment with the emergency plan and disaster recovery plan. Plan,
coordinate and implement policies, controls processes and procedures.
Conduct business impact analysis identifying threats in various business units.
Coordinate with other relevant directorates for the implementation of ethics
programs in the department. Coordinate the identification of ethics risks in the
department. Institutionalize and facilitate the embedding of the ethics,
Business Continuity and Compliance Management in the department.
Establish and maintain an ethical philosophy and culture within the department.
Conduct awareness and training programmes on ethics management,
business continuity management and compliance management to capacitate
officials. Coordinate the various operational committees (Ethics Committee,
Business Continuity Response Committee). Coordinate the activities of the
Business Continuity Response Committee and perform the Secretariat
function. Coordinate the activities of the Ethics Management Committee and
perform the Secretariat function. Coordinate the reporting by the various
committees to the Risk Management Committee, the progress on the various
components. Identify the relevant training needs for the committee members.
Compile reports for the committees. Monitor and evaluate the effectiveness
and efficiency of the business continuity management framework and
embedded practices. Assess the effectiveness of the business continuity
management process. Compile a review report and present reports to relevant
committees. Guide and oversee business continuity management process.
Manage the resources of the Sub-directorate. Monitor and ensure effective and
efficient co-ordination of activities. Provide input into the Budget of the
Directorate. Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of employees.
Compile, maintain and monitor the sub-directorate’s strategic, annual
performance plan / operational plans. Manage the assets of the Sub
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Myrain Mopayi Tel No: (012) 309 3533
POST 14/75 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK AND BUSINESS CONTINUITY REF NO:
DOT/HRM/2026/25
Branch: Office of The Director-General
Directorate: Risk Management
(24 Months Contract)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Risk Management or
Auditing with three 3 years’ experience at a supervisory or practitioner level in
internal Audit or Risk Management. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of the
Public Finance and Management Act (PFMA), Knowledge and understanding
of Treasury Regulations and guidelines, Public Service Anti-Corruption
Strategy and departmental anti-corruption measures, Knowledge of the
principles and practice of risk management, Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act, 5 of 2000 ("PPPFA"), Knowledge and understanding of
60
National Treasury Risk Management Framework, Internal control and
assurance, ERM concepts, frameworks and methodologies, Knowledge of
Risk Maturity Model (IRMSA), Knowledge of risk management policies and,
procedures Knowledge of risk management principles and practice,
Knowledge Business Continuity Management environment, Knowledge of
ethics Management policies and procedures, Knowledge of Public Sector
Ethics Management Framework, Knowledge of Public Sector Compliance
Management Framework, Knowledge of Business Continuity Institute's Good
Practice Guidelines. Communication – Verbal & Written Communication.
Computer literacy. Governance related information. Financial Management.
Strategic capability & leadership (SCL). People management & empowerment
(PME). Project/Programme Management (PPM). Client orientation & customer
focus. Change management. Willing to be available after hours. A valid Driver’s
License.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and maintain a risk management system. Provide support
Risk Management Committee, Ethics Management Committee and Combined
Assurance Forum. Conduct Capacity building initiatives. Implement Business
Continuity, Compliance Management, Combined Assurance and Ethics
Management Review of the Ethics Management framework, Business
Continuity Management framework, Combined Assurance framework and
Compliance Management framework. Develop and implementation of the
Compliance universe, Compliance Management plan, Combined Assurance
Plan and Business Continuity plan. Prepare quarterly reports for Compliance
Management, Combined Assurance forum and Business Continuity forum to
Risk Management, Audit Committee and EXCO. Facilitate awareness
programmes for Business Continuity, Ethics Management, Compliance
Management and Combined Assurance. Provide administrative support to the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Myrain Mopayi Tel No: (012) 309 3533
POST 14/76 : OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR GRADE II REF NO: DOT/ HRM/2026/22
Branch: Various
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), all-inclusive
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised NQF level 6 qualification by SAQA in Office Management and
Technology/ Secretariat/ Management Assistant/ Public Management/
Administration/ Business Management with 2 years’ experience in rendering
support service to senior management. Knowledge and Skills: Computer
Literature Certificate. Administration Skills Certificate. Record Keeping.
Communication Skills. Excellent written and verbal abilities. Ability
communicates with all cultures at all levels. Have a positive open, friendly
disposition in all communications. Confidence, confidentiality and reliability is
essential. Computer Literacy. Experience of Corel and Microsoft, in order to
communicate computer-wise in any given situation. Ability to use the internet.
E-mail (electronic diaries, scheduling of meetings). Administrative Abilities.
Successful handling of documents and correspondents. Successful
coordination of the office. Client satisfaction, both internal and external.
DUTIES : Provide a support services to the Chief Director; Answer and record
telephone/facsimile/email activity on behalf of the Chief Director as well as
screen calls; Record and deal with queries from public and personnel in the
department; create a database of clients with respect to contact information,
line of business and other information. Attend to documentation (filing, tracking,
update and disposal thereof); Receive documentation, acknowledge receipt,
apply file number/ allocation, record data into computer system, file
appropriately; Perform document tracking for all documentation; Keep record
of incoming and outgoing documents. Perform general office administration;
Sent and receive faxes, email receive and dispatch items and do photocopying;
obtain relevant quotes and order supplies; Type letters, agendas, minutes and
other correspondences as necessary. Assist in organising meeting, workshops,
seminars and conferences. Prepare for meetings (arrange venues,
refreshments, equipment’s copy relevant literature; Buy refreshments supplies
for the office. Chief User Clerk; Complete and sign VAS 2 forms; Order
stationery, equipment and furniture for the office; Monitor office orders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Neo Mogotlana Tel No: (012) 309 3912
61
ANNEXURE O
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 15 May 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It should be noted that the
National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. For SMS
positions certain candidates may be required to undergo additional
Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za .The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
62
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/77 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (SCHEDULE 3A & 3C
AND SCHEDULE 2 & 3B) REF NO: S049/2026
Division: Asset And Liability Management (ALM)
Purpose: To promote sound corporate governance practices within public
entities reporting to the Minister of Finance in compliance with the Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Companies Act, Memorandum of
Incorporations, Founding legislation and any other governance prescripts.
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, coupled with a coupled with LLB degree or equivalent
to four-year Bachelor’s Degree in law (equivalent to NQF level 8). A minimum
4 years’ experience of which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level
or equivalent working experience obtained in public entities corporate
governance environment. Knowledge and experience in application of the
PFMA, Companies Act, King Code and other relevant prescripts. Knowledge
of government policies and frameworks governing public entities.
DUTIES : Public Entity Prescripts Review: Develop and review National Treasury public
entity oversights framework, governance protocols, compliance matrix, etc.
Review and or provide inputs on the review of the public entities enabling
legislation, memorandum of incorporation, dividend policies, and remuneration
policies, etc. Promote Good Corporate Governance: Provide
recommendations on appointment of members of boards and executive
management in line with the entities enabling legislations or memorandum of
incorporations. Provide recommendations on remuneration of executive and
non-executive directors of public entities in line with remuneration guidelines,
and policies as well as applicable legislation. Provide recommendations on the
performance evaluations of boards. Coordinate annual general meetings and
provide advice on matters to be transacted at the annual general meetings.
Public Entities Compliance Monitoring: Facilitate the submission and maintain
a database of annual performance plans, corporate plans, strategic plans,
shareholder compacts, and annual reports. Monitor compliance with enabling
legislation, PFMA, Companies Act King Code and other relevant prescripts
through review the corporate governance aspects of the annual performance
plans, corporate plans, strategic plans, shareholder compacts, and annual
reports. Review and process applications in terms of section 52,55 and 92 of
the PFMA applications from public entities. Provide inputs on the tabling of
annual performance plans, corporate plans, strategic plans, shareholder
compacts, and annual reports. Maintain a database on dividends declared and
received by government emanating from the SOE’s projected dividends within
a particular MTEF. Provide governance services to all other schedule 2 and
3Bs entities. Coordination of Contingent Liability: Provide secretariat services
to the Fiscal Liability Committee.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 14/78 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSPORT, DEFENCE AND GENERAL SECTOR
REF NO: S050/2026
Division: Asset And Liability Management (ALM)
Purpose: To exercise oversight over Schedule 2 and 3B national government
business enterprises (SOEs) in the transport, defence and general sector.
Participate in and inform policy making in respect of the restructuring of SOEs
in the transport, defence sector and general sectors.
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) in Finance or Economics. A Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to
NQF level 7) in any of the above disciplines is an added advantage. A minimum
of 4 years’ experience, of which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level
or equivalent obtained in the transport, defence, and/or general sectors.
Knowledge and experience of the PFMA. Experience in financial policy
analysis and strategic planning. Knowledge of financial management and
experience of mergers and acquisitions. Knowledge and experience of
government policy frameworks.
DUTIES : Restructuring of SOEs: Conduct research pertaining to the restructuring of
SOEs in the transport, defence, and general sectors. Review of the
restructuring/turnaround plans of the SOEs in the transport, defence, and
63
general sectors. Participate in the restructuring of SOEs in the transport,
defence, and general sectors with other departments. Provide strategic inputs
on the repositioning and restructuring initiatives of SOEs. Monitoring Oversight
over SOEs: Analyse the financial statements and corporate plans of the SOEs
in the transport, defence, and general sectors. Participate in the review and
development of government legislation and regulations, including but not
limited to PFMA and NT Regulations. Analyse the alignment of the corporate
plans of SOEs in transport, defence, and general sectors and compare them
to policy objectives. Analyse industry trends in the transport, defence, and
general sectors. Exercise ongoing oversight over Schedule 2 and 3B SOEs in
the transport, defence, and general sectors. PFMA Oversight: Analyse and
draft responses to PFMA applications from SOEs in the transport, defence, and
general sectors. Review of Contingent Liabilities: Assess guarantee requests
from SOEs in transport, defence, and general sector. Provide inputs and
justifiable reasons for the approval or disapproval of particular guarantee
requests.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 14/79 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PUBLIC FINANCE REF NO: S056/2026
Division: Public Finance (PF)
Purpose: To provide technical guidance to national departments and state-
owned agencies on fiscal and financial matters pertaining to the evaluation of
policy proposals and spending plans in monitoring expenditure against service
delivery targets and trends.
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or A Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in
Economics or Accounting or Public Finance or Social Sciences. A minimum 4
years’ experience of which 2 years should be on an Assistant Director level or
equivalent obtained budgetary and financial management. Knowledge and
experience of the public sector budgetary and expenditure framework.
Knowledge of sector financial processes, budgeting and MTEF process.
Knowledge of regulatory directives like the PFMA and Treasury Regulations.
DUTIES : Budget Analysis and Financial Planning: Provide guidance to client
departments in their preparation of annual budget submissions and related
budget documentation. Analyse the annual MTEF submissions of departments
and devise corrective steps pertaining to budget documentation, which include
the Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement, Appropriation Bill, Budget Review
and Estimates of National Expenditure. Contribute to the budget process
nationally and evaluate the departments’ requests for roll-over funds, additional
funds, programme structure changes, NRF drawings, shifting of funds and
suspension of funds. Monitor Expenditure Plans against Service Delivery
Targets: Monitor compliance and alignment to the prescribed PFMA and
Treasury Regulations and guide stakeholders on its interpretation for the
correct implementation and application, thereof. Perform in-year analysis and
advice on expenditure plans and trends to enhance the financial gains and
effectiveness within departments. Monitor the achievements of departments’
against service delivery plans and set targets. Verify programme and projects
outputs for alignment based on the successes administered by departments.
Follow-up on findings and concerns emanated from the Auditor-General’s
reports and parliamentary working committees on department’s financial
affairs. Analyse Policy and Monitor Implementation: Perform policy analysis
and monitor the correct implementation in line with the prescribed legislative
framework. Contribute to policy enhancements by providing strategic solutions
for applications within the sectors. Provide guidance and support on key policy
determinations within the relevant sector. Benchmarking and Research: Initiate
benchmarking exercises with reputable government departments on the latest
trends, globally. Perform research on the latest interventions pertaining to
policy development, financial planning, expenditure monitor, etc. Engage
stakeholders on the latest work processes and key developments pertaining to
sectoral, national and state-owned entities/ agencies.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
64
POST 14/80 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO:
S054/2026
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To facilitate the development and implementation of Department’s
operational plans in the monitoring, evaluation and reporting on the
departmental annual performance and operational plans against planned
performance compliance in alignment with the reporting regulatory framework.
Re-Advertisement, Applicants who applied previously must re-apply
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Public or
Business Administration or Management or related fields. A minimum 4 years’
experience of which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level or
equivalent obtained in strategic monitoring and planning of business in
alignment with operation requirements. Knowledge and experience of the
consolidation of Departmental Performance and Strategic Plans. Knowledge
and experience of the Governments Policy Framework. Knowledge of strategic
management and policy analysis. Ability to evaluate and analyse information
for policy development and application of policies.
DUTIES : Departmental Strategic and Annual Performance Plans: Co-ordinate the
development, implementation and maintenance of the Departmental Annual
Performance Plan framework and divisional operational plans. Analyse and
assess strategic and annual performance plans for the correct alignment,
thereof. Assist in the development and implementation of performance
indicators and measurements for the Department. Assist in the compilation of
a comprehensive feedback report outlining discrepancies that must be
addressed and integrated in future Strategic and Annual Performance Plans.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting: Provide inputs to systems and tools for
the utilisation in the monitoring and evaluation of the Department’s
performance and operations management framework. Monitor and evaluate
the reporting framework and report on the Department’s performance in
compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements. Coordinate the
Departmental evaluation mechanism for strategic and operational
programmes. Monitor progress against strategic and annual performance
plans of business units and performance assessment action plans. Policy
Development, Research and Benchmarking: Assist in the development and
implementation of best practices planning, monitoring and reporting systems
and mechanisms. Assist in the development, implementation and review of a
governance framework for quality assurance, oversight and performance
standards. Monitor the implementation of performance guidelines and
frameworks and advice stakeholders accordingly. Coordinate the
implementation of annual outcomes and impact reporting. Stakeholder
Engagement: Engage internal and external stakeholders on the
implementation plans pertaining to planning, monitor evaluation and reporting.
Engage with stakeholders in the coordination and progress of the
implementation of developmental and process enhancements. Engage with
strategic partners in the support of implementation processes pertaining to
monitoring, evaluation and reporting outcomes. Contribute to the governance
of the Departmental Strategic, Annual Performance and Operational Plans, for
a streamlined process.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 14/81 : ECONOMIST: PROVINCIAL FISCAL FRAMEWORK REF NO: S053/2026
Division: Intergovernmental Relations (IGR)
Purpose: To assist with the policy formulation and planning of provincial
budgets, through collating and manage of databases.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) in Economics or Public Finance Management or Public
Management. A minimum 3 years’ experience in Public Financial Management
system in South Africa. Knowledge of applicable public finance legislative and
regulatory framework. Knowledge of basic public sector budgeting principles.
Computer literate with basic knowledge of the use of spreadsheets (MS Excel).
Good written and verbal communication skills.
65
DUTIES : Manage Database for Equitable Share Formula: Collect information and
update the equitable share formula. Maintain the database for the provincial
equitable share formula. Assist with refinement of the fiscal framework
equitable share model. Develop and provide analytical reports in support of the
model, and forecast different scenarios the fiscal framework equitable share.
Provincial Fiscal Framework: Assist with technical analyses in reaching
decisions relating to provincial equitable shares. Provide inputs into the
development and drafting of analytical reports impacting on the provincial fiscal
framework. Database design: Provide concepts in the preparation of tables,
spreadsheets and presentation format of the fiscal framework equitable share
formula database. Intergovernmental Co-ordination and Publications: Assist
with the compilation of information required for the annual IGFR. Provide inputs
of data for reports to TCF and Budget Council Meetings.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 14/82 : ECONOMIST: FORECASTING REF NO: S052/2026
Division: Economic Policy and International Cooperation (EPIC)
Purpose: To assist with the provision of quarterly forecasts of the South African
economy over the MTEF period and maintain the National Treasury Quarterly
Model (QMOD) for sound policy analysis and advice to stakeholders.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF 6) or Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF 7) in Economics or
Mathematics or Statistics or Econometrics. A minimum 3 years’ experience
obtained within an economic modelling environment.
DUTIES : Quarterly Forecasts over the MTEF: Assist with the compilation of a pre-
determined forecast model based on the performance of the South African
economy. Draft forecasting explanatory memoranda to debrief stakeholders on
the main aspects of the economic projection. Assist in providing different
simulations on forecasts on economic growth and tax related models based on
the revenue expectations for a specific financial year. Maintain Economic
Models: Assist with the updating of economic models. Assist with the
development of new models in alignment with policy and related needs.
Consult stakeholders on new initiatives on the maintenance of models. Policy
Analysis and Development: Provide theoretically sound and well researched
reports and memos that link model outcomes to specific policy questions.
Develop presentations and engage stakeholders. Inform internal and external
stakeholders on new developments in impacting on the economic modelling
world and illustrate their usage. Stakeholder Engagement and Research:
Engage clients on new developments pertaining to projection tools impact the
SA economy. Initiate research and engage with internationally recognised
institutions on latest trends pertaining to model development.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 14/83 : ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT: OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
REF NO: S046/2026
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: Facilitate the administration and office management of the Office of
the Director-General.
SALARY : R280 278 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required. A minimum of 12 months experience is required
obtained in an administrative environment, Exposure to electronic document
tracking or registry systems. Basic knowledge of computer literacy.
DUTIES : General Office Support: General communication management. Scheduling
and coordination of schedules for the Heads of the Directorates. Oversee and
organise logistical arrangements related to meetings and events for Heads of
Directorates. Oversee and organise the travel coordination of claims for the O-
DG. Filing Administration: File all documents electronically and hardcopy for
required archiving. Handle confidential documents with utmost discretion.
General Assistance: Perform photocopying and scanning for the Heads of the
Directorate. Ensure the necessary office equipment and stationery is procured
for the O-DG.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
66
ANNEXURE P
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 13 May 2026
NOTE : Other related documentation such as copies of qualifications, identity
document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany the application when
applying for a post as such documentation must only be produced by
shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA circular 19 of
2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or occupational
registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be completed as
these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or disclose all
required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No late
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Candidates will be required
to complete a financial disclosure form and undergo security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must provide a police clearance
certificate from country of origin (only when shortlisted). The Department of
Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts,
the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996
(Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the
Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
hear from us within three (3) months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications will not be
considered. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/84 : DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT REF NO:
LOCMA 09
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Water Resource Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree in Natural Science / Engineering / Environmental /
Environmental Law relevant NQF level 7 qualification. Six (6) to (10) ten years’
experience in compliance monitoring and enforcement environment of which
five (5) years’ experience must be at a middle / senior managerial level. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s licence. Negotiation skills, presentation
skills, knowledge of relevant Acts, project and programme management.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction in the development and implementation of
compliance monitoring and enforcement policy, strategies, norms, regulations,
standard operating procedures within the catchment management area.
Ensure compliance monitoring and enforcement to all water use license
condition within the catchment management area. Ensure enforcement on
non-compliance to the water use license condition. Provision of business
planning and general management for the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs FL Lamola at (083) 273 2494
NOTE : The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
67
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 14/85 : DIRECTOR: WATER USE AUTHORISATION REF NO: LOCMA 10
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Water Resource Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree in Natural Sciences (Hydrology/Ecology/ Zoology/
Botany/ Chemistry/Microbiology etc) B Tech Degree in Environmental
Management relevant NQF level 7 Qualification. Six (6) to (10) years’
experience in Water Use Authorization of which five (5) years’ experience at a
middle/senior managerial level in water resource environment. The disclosure
of a valid unexpired driver’s licence. Knowledge of business and management
principles. Knowledge of strategic planning, resource allocation and human
resources. Knowledge of National Water Act, Knowledge of associated
environmental legislation. Knowledge of Project Management. Problem solving
and analysis.
DUTIES : Lead the implementation of water use authorisation and registration processes.
Provide strategic direction in water use license administration process. Ensure
the operation of water authorisation and registration management system. The
provision of business planning and general management of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs FL Lamola at (083) 273 2494
NOTE : The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/86 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DRINKING WATER REGULATION REF NO:
130526/01
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management: MP
Cd: Provincial Operations Mpumalanga
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 7 qualification in Natural Science. Five (5) years’
experience at supervisory level. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. A clear understanding of the departments role and implementation of
policies with respect to water resource management. Knowledge and
understanding Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury
regulations. Knowledge and experience of administrative and clerical
procedures and systems. Practical knowledge of the Governmental financial
systems. Knowledge of the National Water Act, 36 of 1998, and related policies,
strategies, and guidelines. Understanding the principles of Integrated Water
Resource Management and Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement. Good
computer literacy skills. Innovative thinking, negotiating and networking skills.
Proven managerial and communication skills. Knowledge of Human Resource
Policies. A clear understanding of transformation in the Public Service.
DUTIES : Provide leadership to the section, develop and share a vision and mission for
the section. Promote team building within and beyond the section. Ensure
adequate support to subordinates. Ensure a culture of innovation and
performance. Develop and implement a performance improvement suggestion
scheme. Advice top management and the legislatures as well as relevant
sector bodies on policies and strategies relevant to the directorate. Conduct
strategic and business planning for the section. Participate as a key player in
the water and sanitation function strategic plan. Develop a strategic plan for
the section, develops and manage the budget for the section. Develop an
expenditure forecast. Manage the development of individuals in subordinate
positions. Ensure effective development and implementation of policies and
strategies for the section. Ensure the monitoring of compliance of water
programmes with national regulatory framework. Ensure site visits for DWS
quality, standard, norms and sustainability. Ensure analysis of data for monthly
68
internal and quarterly external reporting. Ensure synchronisation of water
services (WS) and water resource (WR). Liaise with relevant stakeholders in
the province with regard to synchronisation of WR and WS. Ensure the
consolidation of all quarterly regional information into the Water Section Work
Plan reporting tool. Ensure that the Department and Ministerial priorities for
each region as agreed in their business plan are captured programmatically in
the work plan tool and report on. Ensure specific regional analysis on spot
check data. Manage WSA in fulfilling its water services responsibility in terms
for MIG and WSDPs. Oversee proactive monitoring and evaluate of water
service delivery by WSAs. Manage and oversee the planning of interventions
for poor performance. Provide operational plan to ensure monitoring and
compliance on drinking water quality. Ensures compliance to legislative
requirements and framework agreements. Ensures maintenance of the
Drinking Water Quality System. Facilitates implementation of Drinking Water
Quality Action Plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Nyalunga Tel No: (013) 759 7314/Ms FM Mkhwanazi Tel No: (013) 759
7515/Ms PC Ngwamba Tel No: (013) 759 7446/Mr E Pinga Tel No: (013) 759
POST 14/87 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
LOCMA 11
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Human Resource Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 (National Diploma) or NQF level 7 (Bachelor’s Degree) in
Human Resource Management. Three (3) to five (5) years’ experience of which
three (3) years must be at a supervision level in Human Resource
Management. The disclosure of valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of
human resources functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
operate computers and collate administrative statistics. Basic knowledge and
insight of Human Resource prescripts. Applicants must have working
experience on the PERSAL system and be in possession of a PERSAL
certificate. Knowledge of databases and spread sheet applications. Knowledge
and experience of Pension Administration as well as conditions of service
matters i.e. leave, housing allowances, policy on incapacity leave, ill health
retirement (PILIR), appointments, injury on duty and other allowances. Have a
working knowledge of the Basic Condition of employment Act and Labour
Relations Act. Knowledge of the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations
and any other relevant prescripts. Good verbal and written communication
skills.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for the effective management of the total
human resource functions within Catchment Management Agency. Ensuring
and managing the implementation of Human Resources, Human Resources
Development which includes Performance Management and Development
System, Planning and Recruitment as well as HR Administration, strategies,
policies, practices and systems and monitoring the guidance, to subordinates
and line managers. The interpretation and application of HR policies and
directives. Management of PERSAL system that will expedite the provision of
information and statistics. Ensuring and managing effective programming and
coordination of training activities. Assessing the Performance of Officials in the
unit (PMDS).
ENQUIRIES : Mrs FL Lamola at (083) 273 2494
NOTE : The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 14/88 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: LOCMA 12
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Financial Management at NQF level 7. At
least Five (5) years management experience in finance of which three (3) years
69
must be at a supervision level. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Practical knowledge of Accrual Accounting. Computer literacy in
Microsoft Office (particularly Excel). Extensive knowledge of Governmental
financial systems, including SAP. Knowledge of principles and practice of
financial accounting, Treasury Regulations, the Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), GAAP/GRAP, DORA and Public Service Act. Problem solving,
analytical and report writing skills. Strategic thinking. Conversant in English.
Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide financial accounting services, render financial management services,
provide bookkeeping services, manage payroll services, ensure control on
expenditure and financial reporting. Provide strategic leadership and business
planning- providing guidance for operational planning and reporting and
financial planning and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs FL Lamola at (083) 273 2494
NOTE : The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 14/89 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF NO: LOCMA 13
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Revenue Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Financial Management, Accounting or
Revenue Management at NQF level 7. At least Five (5) years management
experience in finance of which three (3) years must be at a supervision level.
The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Computer literacy in
Microsoft Office (particularly Excel – advanced level). Extensive knowledge of
Government financial systems including SAP. Sound knowledge of the Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, GAAP/GRAP,
Division of Revenue Act (DORA), National Water Act, and Public Service Act.
Understanding of billing systems, debtor management, revenue collection
strategies and credit control processes within a public sector environment.
Strong analytical, problem-solving and report writing skills. Strategic thinking
ability with sound financial planning capabilities.
DUTIES : Revenue Management and Billing, Oversee the development and
implementation of revenue management policies, systems and procedures.
Ensure accurate billing of water use charges and related revenue streams in
line with legislative frameworks. Monitor revenue recognition in compliance
with GRAP standards. Ensure effective integration between operational water
use data and financial billing systems. Debt Management and Credit Control,
manage debtor accounts, monitor ageing analysis and implement effective
credit control strategies, oversee debt collection processes and liaise with legal
services where necessary. Develop and implement revenue enhancement and
debt recovery strategies. Ensure reconciliation of revenue and debtor accounts
on a monthly basis. Financial Reporting and Compliance, prepare and review
revenue reports, forecasts and analysis for management and Board reporting.
Ensure compliance with PFMA, Treasury Regulations and audit requirements.
Coordinate revenue-related audit processes and implement corrective action
plans. Strategic Leadership and Planning, providing strategic direction for
revenue management within LOCMA. Contribute to budgeting, cash flow
management and financial sustainability planning. Strengthen internal controls
relating to revenue processes. Support the operationalisation of the Catchment
Management Agency through effective revenue systems and governance.
Stakeholder Management, engage with water users, internal divisions, DWS
and other stakeholders on revenue-related matters. Provide guidance and
training to regional and operational staff on billing and revenue processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs FL Lamola at (083) 273 2494
NOTE : The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
70
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 14/90 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION (GRADE A – C) REF NO: 130526/02
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management: EC
Cd: Provincial Operations: Eastern Cape
Dir: Infrastructure Development Maintenance
Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply
SALARY : R914 517 – R1 376 199 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven
years of experience)
CENTRE : Cradock
REQUIREMENTS : A Civil Engineering Degree (B Eng/ BSc) qualification. Three (3) years post
qualification engineering experience in water services infrastructure
development. Compulsory registration with Engineering Council of South Africa
(ECSA) as a Professional Engineer. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Knowledge of contract, project and financial management. Knowledge
and understanding of operation and maintenance for Water Services
Infrastructure. Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Power Point and
MS Outlook). Understanding of the National Water Act, Water Services Act,
National Environmental Management Act, Public Service Regulations Act,
Division of Revenue Act (DoRA) and the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Good communication skills both (verbal and written) and the ability to
communicate with all sector departments and other institutions. Must be able
to work independently, be self-motivated and reliable.
DUTIES : Provide assistance in the design systems, structures and installation of water
services related infrastructure. Support the comprehensive planning in water
services infrastructure development. Manage multifaceted projects in the
technical investigation, development and refurbishment of water services
infrastructure. Provide assistance and support in administration. Inspect, test
equipment, infrastructure, systems, and installations including the preparation
of reports of the findings. Identify, review and comment on operation and
maintenance plans of water services infrastructure in the region. Compile,
review and comment on the contract documentation proposals, bill of quantities
and tenders. Coordination of the water services planning in the region. Manage
financial allocations to projects and programs. Provide technical engineering
support, guidance and advice to junior personnel, consultants, contractors and
water service authority’s (WSA). Support functional areas to arrange supply
chain management, human resources management and financial needs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Z Nonjuzana Tel No: (043) 604 5414
POST 14/91 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION (GRADE A-C) REF NO: 130526/03
Branch: Regulation Compliance and Enforcement
Dir: Compliance Monitoring Industries
SALARY : R791 604 – R1 189 767 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package), (offer
will be based on proven years of experience)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Science degree (Bsc) (Hon) or relevant qualification preferably microbiology/
geohydrology/chemistry. Three (3) years post qualification natural Scientific
experience in compliance monitoring of industries. Compulsory registration
with the South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions (SACNASP)
as a Professional Natural Scientist. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Proven/Demonstrated knowledge and ability of industrial compliance
monitoring protocols and regulatory tools. Knowledge and understanding of the
legal compliance to the National Water Act, 1998 (Act 36 of 1998), Water Act,
Act No 54 of 1956 and other specific environmental management Acts. Proven
computer and GIS skills. Ability to work in a multidisciplinary team. Ability to
take initiatives and work independently. Scientific presentation skills and
exercising professional judgment. Technical report writing. Facilitation skills
and the ability to interact with key stakeholders in the water sector, national
departments as well as provincial and local government.
DUTIES : Develop and implement regulatory guidelines and standard operating
procedures for compliance monitoring for the industrial sector, oversight
assessments for Catchment Management Agencies (CMAs), promote and
continuously improve effective compliance monitoring of water users within the
industrial sector, compliance awareness promotion, provisioning of specialist
training, conduct compliance audits, provide specialist input in support of
71
enforcement process, coordination of compliance activities, compliance data
assessment and system management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Muthraparsad (Scientist Manager: Compliance Monitoring: Industries) Tel
No: (012) 336 8083
POST 14/92 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: LOCMA
14
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Management Accounting
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Financial Management at NQF level 7. At
least Three (3) years relevant supervisory experience. Practical knowledge of
Accrual Accounting. Computer literacy in Microsoft Office (particularly Excel).
Knowledge and understanding of financial policies, practices and procedures.
Knowledge of Governmental financial systems, including SAP. Knowledge of
principles and practice of management accounting, Treasury Regulations, the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Problem solving, analytical and
report writing skills. Strategic thinking. Conversant in English. Good verbal and
written communication skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the financial supporting
information for planning purposes, Coordinate, review, analyse and quality
assure the budget preparation process. Coordinate, review analyse and quality
assure the management accounting reporting processes. Manage the
operational processes, resources and procedures associated with the
management accounting functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs FL Lamola at (083) 273 2494
NOTE : The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 14/93 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF NO: LOCMA 15
(X2 POSTS)
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Revenue Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in Financial Management at NQF level 7. Three
(3) to Five (5) years’ experience in Revenue Management of which three (3)
years must be at a supervision level. The disclosure of a valid unexpired
driver’s license. Practical knowledge of Accrual Accounting. Computer literacy
in Microsoft Office (particularly Excel). Extensive knowledge of SAP.
Knowledge of Treasury Regulations, the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), GAAP/GRAP, DORA and Public Service Act. Problem solving,
analytical and report writing skills. Strategic thinking. Conversant in English.
Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Implement and monitor billing and debt management policies, strategies and
procedures. Ensure regular and accurate billing of water users, with invoices
and statements sent to customers promptly. Ensure the accounting system is
aligned with business processes and supports efficient operations. Manage the
co-ordination of debtor relationships. Manage the collection of debt and the
reconciliation of customer accounts. Manage the recording of all receivables.
Manage Billing, return to sender and unidentified revenue received within the
region. Provide monthly age analysis reports on debtor’s accounts. Manage
and mentor revenue staff. Recommend action to be taken against defaulting
debtors. Implement business policies and processes relating to debt
management. Development and implementation of the revenue enhancement
strategy. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs FL Lamola at (083) 273 9424
NOTE : The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
72
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 14/94 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO: LOCMA
16
Branch: Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency
Division: Supply Chain and Asset Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A tertiary qualification in Supply Chain Management / Finance at NQF level 7.
Three (3) to five (5) years working experience in supply chain acquisition,
logistic and demand management of which three (3) years must be at
supervision level. The disclosure of valid unexpired driver’s license. Excellent
communication skills both written and verbal. Good planning and organizing
skills. Be computer literate and have sound knowledge of Microsoft Office, i.e.
MS Word, MS Excel, MS Outlook, MS PowerPoint and Internet Explorer.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations and Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act 53 of 2003
and preferential procurement policy framework Act. Knowledge of contract
management. Knowledge of strategic sourcing. Public sector supply chain
management models and processes. Programme and project management.
Problem solving and analysis. People and diversity management. Client
orientation and customer focus. Accountability and ethical conduct. Knowledge
of Supply Chain Management Regulations, practice notes, circulars and policy
frameworks. Must be able to work on SAP and LOGIS systems. Excellent
Interpersonal relation skills.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise acquisition, logistic and demand management. Ensure
full compliance to all acquisition, logistic and demand management prescripts,
policies, practice notes and delegations of authority. Develop and maintain
internal control measures for procurement. Coordinate input in the Demand
Management Plan. Ensure that procurement is in line with the approved
demand plan. Ensure effective utilisation of the CSD. Compilation /verification
of all monthly SCM reports. Manage the process of sourcing of quotations up
to R1 000 000. Ensure that documents submitted to logistics for order creation
are fully compliant with acquisition management prescripts. Provide regular
feedback to clients with regards to quotations finalisation. Management of the
bid processes in the Agency and ensure effective functioning of all Bid
Committees. Management and effective utilisation of Transversal Contracts.
Ensure implementation and compliance of the Instruction Notes as issued by
National Treasury as well as Departmental SCM Policy. Identify and mitigate
risks within the unit. Ensure that all administrative matters, correspondence
and complex enquiries are attended to promptly. Assist in the compiling of
monthly SCM performance reports. Perform human resources and
administrative activities relating to SCM Assessing the Performance of Officials
in the unit (PMDS).
ENQUIRIES : Mrs FL Lamola at 083 273 2494
NOTE : The Limpopo-Olifants Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 14/95 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN: PRODUCTION (GRADE A–C) REF NO:
130526/04
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management Free State
Water Services Infrastructure Development and Refurbishment Programmes
SALARY : R407 337 – R610 131 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Engineering. Three (3) years of technical (Engineering)
experience. Compulsory registration with Engineering Council of South Africa
(ECSA) as a Professional Engineering Technician. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired drivers license. Knowledge and understanding of the water sector:
relevant legislation (NWA, and NEMA) together with the related policies,
73
regulations, principles, guidelines, tools and procedures; policy development,
implementation, project management and monitoring. Excellent
communication skills including verbal, report-writing, and presentation skills.
Sound interpersonal skills as well as the ability to work in a multi-disciplinary
team. Willingness to work abnormal hours and under pressure as well as travel
provincial/country wide. Proven liaison and networking skills especially as they
relate to corporative governance and stakeholder.
DUTIES : Perform duties in the Free State Region Office in the Directorate: Infrastructure
Development & Maintenance with a particular emphasis on the management,
implementation, supervision, and monitoring of the Regional Bulk
Infrastructure Grant (RBIG), Water Services Infrastructure Grant (WSIG),
Municipal Infrastructure Grant (MIG), Buckets Eradication Programme (BEP)
and other civil engineering projects. It will be required from the incumbent to
manage and monitor projects contractually, financially, and technically. An
intimate knowledge of the General Conditions of Contract (GCC) and the
Guidelines for Human Settlement, Planning & Design (“Red Book”) are a
requirement.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MJ Manyama Tel No: (051) 405 9000
74
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SAFETY, ROADS AND TRANSPORT
Free State Provincial Government is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention
to promote representativity (race, gender and disability) in the province through the filling of these posts
and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote representativity will receive
preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications for the Department of Community Safety, Roads and Transport to
be submitted to: Acting Head of Department: Community Safety, Roads and
Transport, Hand delivered to the following address, No 45 Charlotte Maxeke
Street, Perm Building, Bloemfontein, 9300 or emailed to the email address
provided.
CLOSING DATE : 12 May 2026 At 16h00.
NOTE : Directions to applicants: All applications must be submitted on a NEW Z83
form, which can be downloaded from the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa/vacancies.asp or obtained from any Public Service
Department, and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview, following communication from Human Resources Management.
Each application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialled by the
Applicant. The application must indicate the correct Job title, the office where
the position is advertised and the Reference number as stated in the advert.
Failure by the applicant to fully complete, sign, and initial the application form
will result in the disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will, unfortunately, not be considered. Should you
be in possession of Foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Dual citizenship holders must provide the Police Clearance certificate from the
country of origin when shortlisted. All non-SA Citizens will be required to submit
a copy of proof of South African permanent residence when shortlisted.
Applications that do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements will
not be considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Failure to submit all the
requested documents will result in the Application not being considered during
the selection process. All successful candidates will be expected to enter into
an employment contract and a performance agreement within 3 months of
appointment, as well as be required to undergo a security clearance three (3)
months after appointment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/96 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: ROADS REF NO: FS CSRT 01/01/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The remuneration package consists of the basic salary (70% of the package)
and a flexible portion of 30% that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules which includes Government’s contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund – 13% of the basic salary and flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and
which include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance
and medical aid assistance. The successful candidate will be required to enter
into a performance agreement within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Head Office (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate NQF 7 (as recognised by SAQA) in Built in Construction
studies/Bachelor's Degree in Civil / Structural Engineering or equivalent
qualification, specialising in Roads. Registered with the professional Body
(such as the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA), South African
75
Council for the Project and Construction Management Professions
(SACPCMP), South African Council for Quantity Surveying Professions
(SACQSP), etc.). A minimum of five (5) years’ experience at a senior
managerial level within the transport or built infrastructure environment.
Nyukela Pre-Entry SMS Certificate (no appointment shall be finalised without
the relevant candidate producing the pre-entry certificate for SMS). Valid
driver’s license. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must
be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score
both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. Key
Requirements: High-level strategic, technical and leadership capabilities to
manage complex road networks and infrastructure projects. Ability to set the
strategic direction for the Roads Chief Directorate and align departmental goals
with broader national/ provincial transport policies. Proven ability to make high-
level decisions, particularly in road construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance. Proven ability to lead a team, manage performance and foster
capacity building. Proven track record in providing high-level reports on road
construction and maintenance in the province. High-level strategic financial
management, accountability and compliance with public service prescripts.
Extensive experience in planning, management and execution of road
construction/ maintenance of projects will be an added advantage. Knowledge
in roads design, construction and maintenance activities, relevant legislation/s,
i.e., Engineering Profession Act, 2000, National Roads Traffic Act, 1996,
National Environmental Management Act, 1998, COTO Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Works for South African Road Authorities
and Public Service Regulation. Knowledge of SLA, advanced, strategic and
visionary leadership skills. Knowledge: A pavement and roads maintenance
costing system and the Expanded Public Works Program. Managing resources
in a public sector environment; Developing and implementing policies,
strategies and programmes. People management and empowerment. Service
delivery innovation. Problem-solving and analysis. Project management
methodologies. Contract management. Stakeholder relationship management.
Analytical skills. Research. Computer literate. Conflict management. Financial
management.
DUTIES : Ensure compilation and implementation of a Provincial Roads infrastructure
plan to promote accessibility, mobility and safety. Oversee major roads
construction and maintenance projects. Manage the construction and
maintenance of bridges, paved and unpaved roads through timeous
preventative actions. Ensure and monitor implementation of the contractor
development program and provide technical support to municipalities
regarding road construction initiatives. Promote the implementation of
capacity-building, empowerment, development and technical support services
as per relevant norms and standards to all categories within the Chief
Directorate unit. Manage road infrastructure and maintenance services at the
District level. Manage road building material design and quality control. Ensure
implementation of programmes relating to the upgrading of critical safety-
related items within the road reserves. Ensure the development and
implementation of policies that stimulate socio-economic growth as applicable
to roads and transport infrastructure. Manage the provision of Road
construction, material design, and quality control. Provide a general
administrative support function through effective business/operational
performance planning and reporting, as well as ensuring sound corporate
governance mechanisms within the Chief Directorate. Ensure the running of
the provincial abnormal permit office. Oversee and make sure that future
planning for the development of future road network developments are made,
ensure the upkeep and update of approvals for way leaves on the provincial
road networks. Ensure the development of safe road infrastructure in rural and
urban areas. Oversee the planning and execution of geometric and structural
designs of roads and bridges. Manage civil engineers and facilitate processes
for the integrated planning and development of road-related infrastructure.
Provision of road planning administrative support service. Manage traffic
engineering and road safety aspects in the development and maintenance of
road infrastructure, and ensure effective provision of technical support services
in the planning, design and management of road infrastructure. Ensure
effective management of the resources of the Chief Directorate, i.e., manage
human, financial and asset resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Mopeli at 072 781 5180
APPLICATIONS : E-Recruitment Email: cdroads@freetrans.gov.za
76
POST 14/97 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE: REF NO: FS
CSRT 02/01/2026 (1X POST)
(5-Year Fixed Contract)
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (An all-inclusive remuneration package).
The remuneration package consists of the basic salary (70% of the package)
and a flexible portion of 30% that may be structured in terms of the applicable
rules which includes Government’s contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund – 13% of the basic salary and flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and
which include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance
and medical aid assistance. The successful candidate will be required to enter
into a performance agreement within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Head Office (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate NQF 7 (as recognised by SAQA) Bachelor's Degree in Public
Management/ Social Science or Developmental Studies or equivalent
qualification. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience at a senior managerial
level. Understanding of the Civilian Oversight for Police Service Act, the South
African Police Service Act, Crime Prevention Policy Practices and Criminal
Justice Systems, National Crime Prevention Strategy, Integrated Crime and
Violence Prevention Strategy, Constitution of RSA, the Public Service Act,
Public Finance Management Act; in-depth knowledge of legislative prescripts
governing the Safety and Security Sector, etc. Nyukela Pre-Entry SMS
Certificate (no appointment shall be finalised without the relevant candidate
producing the pre-entry certificate for SMS). Valid driver’s license. All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. The
candidate applying for the position should not be a member or former member
of the police service, i.e., SAPS. Key requirements: Proven ability to provide
strategic direction for the component and manage change within a complex
regulatory environment. Ability to set the strategic direction for the Civilian
Oversight for Police Chief Directorate and align departmental goals with
broader national/ provincial policies. Proven ability to make high-level
decisions, particularly in governing the safety and security sector. Proven ability
to lead a team, manage performance and foster capacity building. Proven track
record in providing high-level reports on issues relating to safety and security
in the province. High-level strategic financial management, accountability and
compliance with public service prescripts. Experience in monitoring and
evaluating performance within the public service, specifically related to policing
or law enforcement.
DUTIES : Direct the provision of research, information analysis and conceptualisation
services to the Provincial Secretariat. Direct the monitoring and evaluation of
service delivery for all police service units in the FS Province, Address
complaints against police service delivery at the provincial level with the SAPS
Commissioner. Manage the development and maintenance of community
structures. Represent the Provincial Secretariat for the Police at the Free State
Justice, Crime Prevention and Security Cluster. Provide guidance on the
monitoring of policing legislation and policies to improve service delivery.
Provide a strategy on the analysis of the performance of police in relation to
the Departmental strategic plan, budget utilisation, and Ministerial priorities.
Manage the oversight, monitoring and evaluation of police compliance to
policies and legislation. Provide guidance on monitoring and ensuring SAPS
compliance with legislation, policing policies and Ministerial directives. Manage
reporting on SAPS implementation and compliance with the Domestic Violence
Act to Parliament. Establish and manage the relationship between relevant
stakeholders such as Civil Society, SAPS and other government Departments.
Manage the development of strategies to monitor and evaluate police conduct
and transformation. Manage the assessment of civil claims and disciplinary
procedures for evaluating SAPS programs. Ensure the development of
strategies, processes and procedures for evaluating SAPS programs.
Development and implementation policies, strategies and programmes.
Ensure effective and efficient management of resources within the Chief
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Mopeli at 072 781 5180
APPLICATIONS : E-Recruitment Email: cdcivilian@freetrans.gov.za
77
POST 14/98 : DIRECTOR: CRIME PREVENTION REF NO: FS CSRT 03/01/2026 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive package). The
remuneration package consists of the basic salary (70% of the package) and
a flexible portion of 30% that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules
which includes Government’s contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund – 13% of the basic salary and flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and
which include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance
and medical aid assistance. The successful candidate will be required to enter
into a performance agreement within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Head Office (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate NQF 7 (as recognised by SAQA) Bachelor's Degree or equivalent
qualification in Social Science, Policing, Criminal Justice or relevant equivalent
qualification. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in Middle/Senior
Managerial Level in crime prevention, research or safety management
environment. Understanding of the Civilian Oversight for Police Service Act,
the South African Police Service Act, Crime Prevention Policy Practices and
Criminal Justice Systems, National Crime Prevention Strategy, Integrated
Crime and Violence Prevention Strategy, the Constitution of RSA, Public
Service Act, Public Finance Management Act; in-depth knowledge of legislative
prescripts governing the Safety and Security Sector, etc. Nyukela Pre-Entry
SMS Certificate (no appointment shall be finalised without the relevant
candidate producing the pre-entry certificate for SMS). Valid driver’s license.
All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. Key
requirements: Demonstrated an ability to provide strategic direction on matters
relating to crime prevention and community safety environments. Proven ability
to develop, implement and review Provincial or National Safety Strategies and
Crime Prevention Policies. Ability to manage resources. Proven ability to make
high-level decisions, particularly in governing the safety and security sector.
Proven track record in providing high-level reports on crime prevention in the
province. Proven ability to lead a team, manage performance and foster
capacity building. High-level strategic financial management, accountability
and compliance with public service prescripts. Experience in monitoring and
evaluating performance within the public service, specifically related to policing
or law enforcement.
DUTIES : Initiate, manage and implement the national crime and violence prevention
programmes and strategies, promote and monitor an integrated approach
towards Social Crime Prevention in the Province. Promote and monitor good
Community Police Relations. Coordinate multi-sectoral stakeholder meetings
and mobilise communities, NGO’s and interfaith/ traditional leaders on crime
prevention/ community safety and the root causes thereof. Develop,
implement, evaluate and monitor evidence-based crime prevention policies
and strategies. Through the Chief Director: Civilian Secretariat for Police,
provide policy advice to the Provincial Commissioner and oversight of policing.
Roll out and support Community Policing Forums (CPFs) and Community
Safety Forums (CSFs) at provincial and local levels. Conduct monitoring and
evaluation of SAPS compliance with policies and service delivery in terms of
crime prevention. Oversee community development initiatives, safety
awareness campaigns, and provide strategic direction to the Directorate.
Prepare and submit reports on operational activities of the Directorate.
Represent the Department on various boards, committees and liaison
structures between the various spheres of Government. Development and
implementation policies, strategies and programmes. Ensure effective
management of the resources of the Directorate, i.e., manage human, financial
and asset resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Mopeli at 072 781 5180
APPLICATIONS : E-Recruitment Email: dcrimeprev@freetrans.gov.za
POST 14/99 : DIRECTOR: ROAD SAFETY AND CAPACITY BUILDING REF NO: FS CSRT
04/01/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive package). The
remuneration package consists of the basic salary (70% of the package) and
a flexible portion of 30% that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules
78
which includes Government’s contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund – 13% of the basic salary and flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and
which include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance
and medical aid assistance. The successful candidate will be required to enter
into a performance agreement within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Head Office (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate NQF 7 (as recognised by SAQA), i.e., Bachelor's Degree or
equivalent qualification in Transport Management, Traffic Law Enforcement,
Public Administration, or Social Sciences. A minimum of five (5) years’
experience in Middle/Senior Management Level. Experience in transport, traffic
management or a safety environment. Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Road Traffic Legislation, and Public Service
Regulations. National Road Traffic Act and ARTO Regulations. Valid driver’s
license. Nyukela Pre-Entry SMS Certificate (no appointment shall be finalised
without the relevant candidate producing the pre-entry certificate for SMS). All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. Key
requirements: Proven ability to provide strategic direction on matters relating
to road safety and align road safety goals with provincial/national transport
strategies. Proven ability to lead a team, manage performance and foster
capacity building. Proven ability to develop, implement and review Road safety
Provincial or National Safety Strategies and Policies. Ability to manage
resources. Proven ability to make high-level decisions, particularly in governing
road safety. Experience in designing, monitoring and evaluating systems to
evaluate the impact of road safety interventions. Proven track record in
providing high-level reports on road safety and capacity building in the
province. High-level strategic financial management, accountability and
compliance with public service prescripts.
DUTIES : Managing the development and implementation of road traffic safety
programmes. Coordination of shared Road Safety projects, partnering with
NGO’s, SANRAL, Local Municipalities and other Provincial and National
Departments. Oversee the planning and execution of special safety projects.
Manage public educational campaigns, safety workshops, and road safety
programmes targeted at schools, tertiary institutions and the general public.
Promote public awareness and work with stakeholders on road safety
initiatives. Assess the impact of road safety interventions. Develop and
implement road safety policies, strategies and operational plans to meet the
provincial and national targets. Identify, build and maintain relationships with
stakeholders, including school communities, private companies and Road
Safety Forums. Oversee the functioning of the Road Safety forums in the Free
State. Evaluate the performance of road safety officers and conduct impact
analyses of road safety projects. Conduct research to identify hazardous
locations and develop intervention strategies. Ensuring the successful
implementation of the road safety decisions of MINMEC, RTMC, and the
National Department of Transport. Manage Arrive Alive and Festive Season
road safety projects. Overseeing the functioning of the traffic training college.
Development of policies, strategies and programmes. Ensure effective
management of the resources of the Directorate, i.e., manage human, financial
and asset resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N. Mopeli at 072 7815180
APPLICATIONS : E-Recruitment Email: droadsafety@freetrans.co.za
POST 14/100 : DIRECTOR: TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT REF NO: FS CSRT 05/01/2026 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive package). The
remuneration package consists of the basic salary (70% of the package) and
a flexible portion of 30% that may be structured in terms of the applicable rules
which includes Government’s contribution to the Government Employee
Pension Fund – 13% of the basic salary and flexible portion which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and
which include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s allowance
and medical aid assistance. The successful candidate will be required to enter
into a performance agreement within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Head Office (Bloemfontein)
79
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate NQF 7 (as recognised by SAQA) Batchelor-Degree in Transport
Management, Traffic Law Enforcement, Public Administration, or Social
Sciences or other related field. A minimum of five (5) years experience at
Middle/Senior Managerial level within the law enforcement or transport
environment. Knowledge of the National Road Traffic Act and ARTO
Regulations. Valid driver’s license. Nyukela Pre-Entry SMS Certificate (no
appointment shall be finalised without the relevant candidate producing the
pre-entry certificate for SMS). All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and
the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels
shall score both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview
process. Key requirements: Proven ability to provide strategic direction on
matters relating to road safety and align road safety goals with
provincial/national transport strategies. Proven ability to lead a team, manage
performance and foster capacity building. Proven ability to develop, implement
and review Road safety Provincial or National Safety Strategies and Policies.
Ability to manage resources. Proven ability to make high-level decisions,
particularly in governing road safety. Proven track record in providing high-level
reports on road safety performance in the province. High-level strategic
financial management, accountability and compliance with public service
prescripts. Proven track record in developing traffic services strategies and
integrating them with the municipal Integrated Development Plan processes.
Proven record in designing, monitoring and evaluating systems to evaluate the
impact of road safety interventions.
DUTIES : Overall responsibility for the management and coordination of all activities of
road traffic control in the province. Develop and manage the joint traffic law
enforcement strategies. Manage and coordinate the traffic law enforcement
programmes and projects, including speed operations, roadblock planning with
the National Traffic Police and ensure compliance with the National Road
Traffic Act and ARTO Regulations. Develop strategies to ensure the reduction
of road fatalities. Managing hazardous locations and overseeing the escorting
of abnormal loads. Develop, implement and monitor provincial or local safety
strategies, traffic management plans and policies. Direct and manage daily
traffic and law enforcement operations, including supervision of traffic officers,
provincial inspectors, etc. Oversee the regulation of transport, including
monitoring operator licenses, permits, and ensuring compliance with public
transport regulations. Ensure internal and external stakeholder management
(eg South African Police Service, Municipal councils). Overseeing the
management of traffic control centres (weighbridges), providing and
maintaining law enforcement and order for all modes of transport by providing
quality traffic policing services. Development of policies, strategies and
programmes. Ensure effective management of the resources of the
Directorate, i.e., manage human, financial and asset resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Mopeli at 072 781 5180
APPLICATIONS : E-Recruitment Email: dtrafficmanagement@freetrans.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
APPLICATIONS : For All Posts: Please submit your application, quoting the relevant reference
number on your Z83 application as well as on the envelope to: The Director:
Human Resource Administration, Department of Education, Bloemfontein
9300. (Old Saambou Building, Ground Floor, corner Charlotte Maxeke and
Aliwal Street, Bloemfontein – Box at Security). Electronic Applications: To apply
visit: (https://systems.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/Login)
CLOSING DATE : 18 May 2026
NOTE : It is the intention to promote representativity in the Department through the
filling of these posts. the candidature of applicants from designated groups
especially in respect of people with disabilities will receive preference.
Applicants must apply using the NEW Z83 form which can be downloaded at
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. From 1 January 2021 should
an application be received using the incorrect application form for employment
(Z83), it will not be considered. Please ensure to complete All fields on the new
Z83 application form. A recent comprehensive, detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV)
containing, inter alia, a complete chronological record of training, experience,
competencies, and previous employment record as well as the names and
telephone numbers of three persons willing to act as referees. Applicants are
not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents
on application but must only submit the Z83 and curriculum vitae (Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents). All
80
shortlisted candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks on
criminal records, citizenship verification, financial records, qualification
verification, sexual offenders register and applicants could be required to
provide consent for access to their social media accounts. Correspondence will
be limited to shortlisted candidates only. Separate applications must be
submitted for every vacancy. N.B.: Please note that: Incomplete and late
applications will not be considered (applications posted, couriered, and
received after the closing date and those that do not comply with these
instructions will not be considered). The onus is on the applicants to ensure
that their applications are posted, e-mailed or hand delivered timeously. Failure
to comply with the procedure outlined above, will lead to an application being
rejected. Applicants are requested to complete the new Z83 form properly
which must be authenticated by a signature and initialed on both pages and
clearly quoting the relevant REF NO number for each post applied for.
Applicants are informed that applications, copies of qualifications and CVs will
not be returned; Applicants who terminated their services with voluntary
severance packages may not apply; salary progression on the salary scales is
subject to performance assessment; The FSDoE reserves the right not to fill
advertised positions. It is expected of candidates to be available for selection
interviews on a date, time and place determined by the Free State Department
of Education. It is the applicants’ responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Non-RSA
residents/permanent residents will submit proof only when shortlisted.
Applicants are respectfully informed that if no notification of appointment is
received within 4 months of the closing date, they must accept that their
application has been unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Successful candidates on level 13 and higher must undergo a
Competency test and Pre-entry certificate for the Senior Management Services
posts is compulsory. Introduction and general measures: NB: as of 1st July
2006, all new appointments in the public service have to be part of the
Government Employee Medical Scheme (GEMS) in order to qualify for a
Government Medical Subsidy. Correspondence will only be entered into with
shortlisted applicants.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/101 : DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
PS3/2026/01
SALARY : R1 266 567 – R1 518 531 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary
package). The total package includes 70% basic salary, a state contribution to
the Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion that may be
structured in terms of the applicable guidelines. This appointment is subject to
the signing of an Annual Performance Agreement and obtaining a security
clearance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant B Degree qualification in Built Environment or equivalent qualification
as recognized by SAQA. (NQF Level 7). Post Graduate Qualification will be an
added advantage. 5 Years of experience at a Middle/Senior managerial level.
Preference will be given to candidates with proven experience in the delivery
and oversight of Infrastructure programs. Valid Code B/EB Drivers license. Pre-
entry certificate for the Senior Management Services to be submitted prior to
appointment. Added Advantage: Desirable: Certificate Course in infrastructure
Delivery Management and Registration with relevant Professional
Council/Board. Strong conceptual and formulation skills; strong leadership
skills with specific reference to the ability to display thought leadership and co-
ordination of complex applications; strong interpersonal skills; excellent verbal
and written communication skills; outstanding planning, organisational and
people management skills; computer literacy; a highly developed interpretative
and conceptualization/ formulation ability; the ability to render advice and
guidance in an objective and dedicated manner; The ability to multi-task, deal
with ambiguity and manage under rapidly changing and pressurised
circumstances; the ability to persuade and influence; the ability to lead and
direct teams of professionals and service providers and ability to deal with
complex situations. Knowledge of 178 PFMA/Division of Revenue Act /
Treasury/Regulations/Practice Notes /Instructions Circulars, Departmental
81
Supply Chain Management Policies, Procedures Delegations. Promotion of
Access to Information Act of 2000. Promotion of Administrative Justice Act
2000. Government Immovable Asset Management Act 2007. South African
Schools Act of 1996, Regulations and Guidelines, National Archives and
Records Service Act1996. Public Service Act of 1994 and Regulations.
Experience and in-depth knowledge of Infrastructure Delivery Management
System. Experience and knowledge of capital commitments scheduling,
dealing within infrastructure financial compliance and auditing. Experience in
major programme and project management. Understanding and knowledge of
Framework for Infrastructure Delivery and Procurement Management.
Experience and knowledge of development and implementation of operations
and maintenance strategies. Specific knowledge of water and sanitation
strategies and technologies. Understanding of the District Development Model.
Knowledge in the development of Infrastructure Programme Management Plan
and management of Implementing Agents.
DUTIES : Medium Term Expenditure Budget, Annual Budget, Adjustment Budget,
Infrastructure Programme Management Plan, Construction Procurement
Strategy and Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan. Direct
Infrastructure strategic objectives/briefs. Direct Medium Term, Annual and
Adjustment Budget. Prepare and direct bids for performance grants in
collaboration with the Directorate Infrastructure Planning & Property
Management. Direct and approve Infrastructure Programme Management
Plans. Direct and approve the procurement strategy providing value for money
to inform the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Sign off on inputs
provided for the preparation of the Infrastructure Programme Implementation
Plan by Implementing Agent[s]. Review and sign-off Infrastructure Programme
Implementation Plans. Review and recommend signing of Signed Service
Delivery Agreement. Capital and Maintenance Project Implementation and
Oversight. Participate on various Supply Chain Management Committee [if
appointed]. Sign-off Project Execution Plans. Sign-off scope and/or cost
variations. Consult Districts and Schools during initiation and commissioning
phases. Direct regular project site meetings and visits. Direct implementation
of commissioning plans. Finalise and approve all infrastructure monitoring
reports [performance reports]. Direct updating of Project/Programme
Management systems. Direct Post Project and Post Occupancy Evaluations.
Manage feedback learning generated in terms of the application of approved
norms and standards. Direct and manage social facilitation where applicable.
Monitor and report on EPWP targets. Management of the infrastructure budget
as Infrastructure Programme Manager for assigned projects. Use of funds in
terms of contracts issued effectively, efficiently and in compliance with Public
Finance Management Act. Review and approve cost and scope variations.
Review and approve Task and Work Orders. Authorise invoices certified by
Implementing Agents. Direct updating of financial documentation and records.
Direct preparation of financial reports. Management of maintenance works.
Direct the development of criteria for maintenance projects. Direct the
development and updating of the maintenance system. Manage Departmental
funding for maintenance. Enforce adherence by Districts and Schools to
maintenance criteria and guidelines. Direct the completion of maintenance
plans for all projects. Manage the identification of needs for framework
contracts and submit for procurement. Manage and direct the use of
contractors [Task or Batch Orders] in terms of framework contracts. Manage
the maintenance call centre. Monitor effective functioning of the call centre.
Direct the orientation of Users in terms of maintenance. Strategic management
of the Directorate in terms of setting of the visionary and strategic direction,
participating in strategic planning, evaluate performance against agreed
performance indicators, monitor and report progress and ensure compliance
to service delivery imperative and legal prescripts. Align Directorate core
business and strategic objectives to that of the Department. Provide clarity to
professionals and support staff to understand their roles and responsibilities.
Effective and efficient resources management. Undertake planning for future
human resources needs. Maintain discipline. Manage performance and
development of employees. Undertake human resources and other related
administrative functions. Establish and maintain effective and efficient
communication arrangements. Develop and manage the operational plan. Plan
and allocate work. Develop and implement processes to promote control of
work. Serve on transversal task teams as required. Implement quality control
of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9292
82
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/102 : CHIEF QUANTITY SURVEYOR: REF NO: PS03/2026/02
Infrastructure Delivery Management Directorate
Infrastructure Programmes/Projects & Maintenance Sub Directorate
SALARY : Grade A: R1 143 468 – R1 300 944 per annum, (all-inclusive annual salary
package) of which 30% may be structured according to the individual’s needs.
OSD: The department will determine the salary notch based on years’
experience post professional registration.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A University Degree in Quantity Surveying or equivalent qualification as
recognised by SAQA. (NQF Level 7). Meeting the requirements by SACQSP
to register as Quantity Surveyor. Valid driver’s licence, Minimum of 6 years
experience post qualification. Added Advantage: Computer literacy and a
Certificate in Infrastructure Delivery Management System will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Infrastructure Programme and Project Planning in line with IDMS: Prepare the
Procurement Strategy, Infrastructure Programme Management Plan [IPMP]
and updating of the plan. Prepare the infrastructure budget and Final Project
List. Prepare the Packages/Individual Project Briefs; presenting these to the
Implementing Agent [IA] – referred to as Project Execution Plan v1.Manage the
preparation of Packages/Individual Project Briefs for projects that are not
allocated to an Implementing Agent [IA].Participate in the procurement of
Professional Service Providers and Contractors, including the preparation and
approval of Bid Specifications and evaluations of tenders as member of the
Supply Chain Management Committees in Public Works and/or relevant SCM
Committees of Alternative IAs and Provincial Department of Education.
Manage adherence to Occupational Health and Safety and Quality Assurance
standards. Infrastructure Programme and Project Implementation and
Monitoring: Monitor the implementation of Programmes and Projects by the
Implementing Agents [IA] and the adherence to the Service Delivery
Agreements. Manage project implementation of projects that are not allocated
to an Implementing Agent [IA].Review and sign-off on the Infrastructure
Programme Implementation Plan [IPIP] as prepared by the Implementing
Agent [IA].Review and sign-off on the Project Execution Plans Versions 2 – 7
prepared by the Implementing Agent [IA].Review and recommend Variation
Orders in terms of contract management practice and financial implications in
collaboration with professionals in the Directorate Physical Resources
Planning. Recommend authorisation of payments in line with the conditions of
the appointments, contract management practices and within financial
delegations. Develop and Approve Project Stage reports & designs, in
accordance with strategic decision making points as defined in the Provincial
Infrastructure Delivery Framework. [IDMS]. Manage the updating of
project/programme documentation and information and submit all built
environment documentation to the Deputy Director Finance. Manage the
interface between the end-user/community structures and Implementing Agent
[IA]. Prepare and submit progress reports [financial and non-financial
indicators]. Maintenance Projects: Assess departmental projects that qualify for
departmental funding assessed. Manage the implementation of day-to-day,
routine and emergency maintenance projects funded by department. Provide
guidance to the preparation of maintenance plans. Provide training to districts
and schools in terms of day-to-day, routine and emergency maintenance plans
and projects. On an annual basis, evaluate day-to-day, routine and emergency
projects implemented by Districts and Schools. Monitor Section 21 allocations
for maintenance. Monitor preparation of disaster management plans.
Infrastructure Project Commissioning. Coordinate and participate in project
commissioning, including site visits. Review the School Maintenance Plan and
budget on completion of projects. Collect and update NEIMS and EFMS
information [if applicable] in terms of Technical Condition Assessments on
completion of projects. Orientate users in terms of the optimal usage of
Facilities. Infrastructure Programme and Project Evaluation: Review
infrastructure projects and programmes in line with the built environment
norms, standards and legislative requirements. Manage the preparation of the
project close out reports. Manage and participate in Post Project and Post
Occupancy Evaluation exercises. Provide feedback to Directorate Physical
Resources Planning on functional and technical norms and standards that
should be updated from an architectural perspective. Participate in the
continuous improvement of best practices, standardised processes and
83
procedures, software applications and tools. Research/literature studies to
keep up with new technologies, viability and feasibility of the geographical
information management options for the Department including interaction with
relevant professional development boards/councils. Study professional
journals and publications to stay abreast of new developments. Monitor and
study the education sector, legal frameworks, standards changes and policy
frameworks. Engage in relevant continuous professional development
activities [tools and techniques] as prescribed and/or required. Update the
Infrastructure comprehensive planning framework of Department in terms of
research findings, new technology and changes in the institutional
environment. Interact with relevant Professional Bodies/Councils. Effective and
efficient resources management: Undertake planning for future human
resources needs. Maintain discipline. Manage performance and development
of development of employees. Undertake human resources and other related
administrative functions. Establish and maintain effective and efficient
communication arrangements. Develop and manage the operational plan. Plan
and allocate work. Develop and implement processes to promote control of
work. Serve on transversal task teams as required. Implement quality control
of work delivered by employees. Effective and efficient financial management.
Monitor that infrastructure projects are planned within available funds. Monitor
application of costs norms. Monitor expenditure on infrastructure projects
within budgets. Control cost and scope variances on infrastructure projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9292
POST 14/103 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR REF NO: PS03/2026/07
Physical Resource Planning and Property Management Directorate
Property Management Sub Directorate
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive annual salary
package) of which 30% may be structured according to the individual’s needs.
The department will determine the salary notch based on years’ experience
post professional registration.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant B Degree. Minimum of 5 years’ experience post qualification and a
Valid Driver’s licence. Added Advantage: Computer literacy and certificate in
Infrastructure Delivery Management System will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Land affairs and immovable asset register: Obtain updated information for
immovable assets in line with the requirements stated on NEIMS survey forms
and the requirement of the Provincial Asset Register managed by Public
Works. Validate the correctness of information pertaining to location of
immovable assets. Manage acquisitions of immovable assets [land and
buildings] for Facilities in close consultation with Public Works. Manage
disposals of immovable assets [land and buildings] for Facilities in close
consultation with Public Works. Consult with Districts and Schools to obtain
their needs and inputs in terms of acquisitions and disposals. Confirm all deeds
searches to validate ownership of land before planning for buildings are
finalised. Keep a register of sites allocated to Education for future infrastructure
development. Implement actions to keep sites clean. Implement actions to
prevent any illegal occupation of sites. Monitor and report on conditions and
maintenance of vacant sites allocated to Education. Accommodation,
municipal accounts and expenditure management: Based the technical
requirements for leases as prepared by the Planning Staff, identify suitable
buildings for leases. Interact with Districts and Schools on proposed buildings
for leases. Manage all Section 14 lease contracts. Manage all lease payments.
Validate that maintenance is implemented by the Landlords. Manage and direct
the validation of municipal accounts. Manage and direct the payment of
municipal accounts through the finance section. Refer excessive use of water
or electricity to the Directorate Infrastructure Delivery Management for
investigation. Utilities: Prepare and issue guidelines on the use of utilities by
Schools. Train Districts on the guidelines for use of utilities. Design monitoring
system to report on the use of utilities. Prepare and submit progress reports on
the use of facilities. Make recommendations and/or propose interventions to
improve the use of utilities by Facilities. Monitor that Districts implement
interventions to improve the utilisation of utilities by Facilities. Effective and
efficient resources management: Undertake planning for future human
resources needs. Maintain discipline. Manage performance and development
of development of employees. Undertake human resources and other related
administrative functions. Establish and maintain effective and efficient
communication arrangements. Develop and manage the operational plan. Plan
84
and allocate work. Develop and implement processes to promote control of
work. Serve on transversal task teams as required. Implement quality control
of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9292
POST 14/104 : MECHANICAL ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: PS03/2026/03
Physical Resource Planning and Property Management Directorate
Infrastructure Planning Sub Directorate
SALARY : R914 517 – R975 582 per annum, (all-inclusive annual salary package) of
which 30% may be structured according to the individual’s needs. The
department will determine the salary notch based on years’ experience post
professional registration.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A university degree in Engineering or equivalent qualification as recognised by
SAQA. (NQF Level 7). Be registered with Engineering Council of South Africa
(ECSA) as a professional Engineer: Mechanical Engineer, Valid drivers license
and a minimum of 3 years’ experience post qualification. Added Advantage
Computer Literacy and an Executive course in Infrastructure Delivery
Management will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Development, interpretation and customisation of functional and technical
norms and standards from an engineering perspective. Provide inputs to
technical and functional norms and standards from an engineering perspective
to be issued in terms of the Provincial Education Facilities Guidelines and
National Education norms & standards. Monitor that infrastructure projects
implemented by Implementing Agent[s] comply with approved engineering
functional and technical norms and standards and that the planning and design
are according to sound engineering principles and code of practice. Monitor
that planning and design completed through insourced engineering services is
done according to sound engineering principles and according to norms and
standards and code of practice. Update functional and technical norms and
standards updated based on learning generated through Post Project and Post
Occupancy Evaluation [POE] exercises. Maintain mechanical engineering
norms & standards. Investigate proposals for innovative service delivery
mechanisms and undertake feasibility studies. Prepare reports stating the
advisability, desirability, impact and legality of proposals for innovative service
delivery mechanisms. Undertake feasibility studies and prepare reports
detailing service impact, financial impact, infrastructure impact, constraints,
alternatives and attainability. Develop cost effective solutions according to
standards. Compile briefing documentation and specifications from an
engineering perspective. Prepare technical specifications. Apply mechanical
design principles. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology in specifications. Undertake
preliminary costing per installation. Determine mechanical engineering
performance-based standards. Develop mechanical engineering standard data
sheets and drawings. Provide mechanical engineering inputs to Project
Execution Plan v 1. Provide mechanical engineering inputs to Project
Execution Plans v 2 – 7 to the Directorate Infrastructure Delivery Management.
Determine requirements for built environment document management system
from a Mechanical Engineering perspective. Investigate mechanical
engineering installations and equipment, undertake design work and
implement corrective measures, where necessary. Prepare reports on
mechanical engineering investigations. Determine mechanical engineering
proposals and design work for solutions, where necessary. Prepare reports on
effectiveness of corrective measures. Oversee implementation (construction)
and commissioning of mechanical engineering installations and maintenance.
Provide mechanical engineering inputs to implement projects successfully.
Provide mechanical engineering professional and technical advice in the form
of verbal and written advice, reports, calculations, specifications and drawings.
Provide inputs to infrastructure assessments from a mechanical engineering
perspective. Provide inputs to life cycle costs from a mechanical engineering
perspective. Develop maintenance programmes. Provide engineering inputs to
maintenance projects from a mechanical engineering perspective.
Research/literature studies to keep up with new technologies, viability and
feasibility of the geographical information management options for the
Department including interaction with relevant professional development
boards/councils. Study professional journals and publications to stay abreast
of new developments. Monitor and study the education sector, legal
frameworks, standards changes and policy frameworks. Engage in relevant
85
continuous professional development activities [tools and techniques] as
prescribed and/or required. Update the Infrastructure comprehensive planning
framework of Department in terms of research findings, new technology and
changes in the institutional environment. Interact with relevant Professional
Bodies/Councils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9292
POST 14/105 : ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: PS03/2026/04
Infrastructure Delivery Management Directorate
Infrastructure Programmes/Projects & Maintenance Sub Directorate
SALARY : R914 517 – R975 582 per annum, (all-inclusive annual salary package) of
which 30% may be structured according to the individual’s needs. The
department will determine the salary notch based on years’ experience post
professional registration.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A university degree in Engineering or equivalent qualification as recognised by
SAQA. (NQF Level 7). Be registered with Engineering Council of South Africa
(ECSA) as a professional Engineer, Valid drivers license and a minimum of 3
years’ experience post qualification. Added Advantage Computer Literacy and
an Executive course in Infrastructure Delivery Management will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Infrastructure Programme and Project Planning in line with IDMS: Prepare the
Procurement Strategy, Infrastructure Programme Management Plan [IPMP]
and updating of the plan. Prepare the infrastructure budget and Final Project
List. Prepare the Packages/Individual Project Briefs; presenting these to the
Implementing Agent [IA] – referred to as Project Execution Plan v1. Manage
the preparation of Packages/Individual Project Briefs for projects that are not
allocated to an Implementing Agent [IA]. Participate in the procurement of
Professional Service Providers and Contractors, including the preparation and
approval of Bid Specifications and evaluations of tenders as member of the
Supply Chain Management Committees in Public Works and/or relevant SCM
Committees of Alternative IAs and Provincial Department of Education.
Manage adherence to Occupational Health and Safety and Quality Assurance
standards. Infrastructure Programme and Project Implementation and
Monitoring: Monitor the implementation of Programmes and Projects by the
Implementing Agents [IA] and the adherence to the Service Delivery
Agreements. Manage project implementation of projects that are not allocated
to an Implementing Agent [IA]. Review and sign-off on the Infrastructure
Programme Implementation Plan [IPIP] as prepared by the Implementing
Agent [IA]. Review and sign-off on the Project Execution Plans Versions 2 – 7
prepared by the Implementing Agent [IA]. Review and recommend Variation
Orders in terms of contract management practice and financial implications in
collaboration with professionals in the Directorate Physical Resources
Planning. Recommend authorisation of payments in line with the conditions of
the appointments, contract management practices and within financial
delegations. Develop and Approve Project Stage reports & designs, in
accordance with strategic decision making points as defined in the Provincial
Infrastructure Delivery Framework. [IDMS]. Manage the updating of
project/programme documentation and information and submit all built
environment documentation to the Deputy Director Finance. Manage the
interface between the end-user/community structures and Implementing Agent
[IA]. Prepare and submit progress reports [financial and non-financial
indicators]. Maintenance Projects: Assess departmental projects that qualify for
departmental funding assessed. Manage the implementation of day-to-day,
routine and emergency maintenance projects funded by department. Provide
guidance to the preparation of maintenance plans. Provide training to districts
and schools in terms of day-to-day, routine and emergency maintenance plans
and projects. On an annual basis, evaluate day-to-day, routine and emergency
projects implemented by Districts and Schools. Monitor Section 21 allocations
for maintenance. Monitor preparation of disaster management plans.
Infrastructure Project Commissioning: Coordinate and participate in project
commissioning, including site visits. Review the School Maintenance Plan and
budget on completion of projects. Collect and update NEIMS and EFMS
information [if applicable] in terms of Technical Condition Assessments on
completion of projects. Orientate users in terms of the optimal usage of
Facilities. Infrastructure Programme and Project Evaluation: Review
infrastructure projects and programmes in line with the built environment
norms, standards and legislative Requirements. Manage the preparation of the
86
project close out reports. Manage and participate in Post Project and Post
Occupancy Evaluation exercises. Provide feedback to Directorate Physical
Resources Planning on functional and technical norms and standards that
should be updated from an architectural perspective. Participate in the
continuous improvement of best practices, standardised processes and
procedures, software applications and tools. Research/literature studies to
keep up with new technologies, viability and feasibility of the geographical
information management options for the Department including interaction with
relevant professional development boards/councils. Study professional
journals and publications to stay abreast of new developments. Monitor and
study the education sector, legal frameworks, standards changes and policy
frameworks. Engage in relevant continuous professional development
activities [tools and techniques] as prescribed and/or required. Update the
Infrastructure comprehensive planning framework of Department in terms of
research findings, new technology and changes in the institutional
environment. Interact with relevant Professional Bodies/Councils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9292
POST 14/106 : ARCHITECT GRADE A REF NO: PS03/2026/05
Infrastructure Delivery Management Directorate
Infrastructure Programmes/Projects and Maintenance Sub Directorate
SALARY : R791 604 – R849 525 per annum, (all-inclusive annual salary package) of
which 30% may be structured according to the individual’s needs. The
department will determine the salary notch based on years’ experience post
professional registration.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A University degree in Architecture and/or equivalent qualification as
recognised by SAQA. (NQF Level 7). Registered as a Professional Architect
with the South African Council for Architectural Profession (SACAP), Valid
driver’s license, a minimum of 3 years’ experience post qualification. Added
Advantage: Computer literacy and a Certificate in Infrastructure Delivery
Management System will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Infrastructure Programme and Project Planning in line with IDMS: Prepare the
Procurement Strategy, Infrastructure Programme Management Plan [IPMP]
and updating of the plan. Prepare the infrastructure budget and Final Project
List. Prepare the Packages/Individual Project Briefs; presenting these to the
Implementing Agent [IA] – referred to as Project Execution Plan v1. Manage
the preparation of Packages/Individual Project Briefs for projects that are not
allocated to an Implementing Agent [IA]. Participate in the procurement of
Professional Service Providers and Contractors, including the preparation and
approval of Bid Specifications and evaluations of tenders as member of the
Supply Chain Management Committees in Public Works and/or relevant SCM
Committees of Alternative IAs and Provincial Department of Education.
Manage adherence to Occupational Health and Safety and Quality Assurance
standards. Infrastructure Programme and Project Implementation and
Monitoring: Monitor the implementation of Programmes and Projects by the
Implementing Agents [IA] and the adherence to the Service Delivery
Agreements. Manage project implementation of projects that are not allocated
to an Implementing Agent [IA]. Review and sign-off on the Infrastructure
Programme Implementation Plan [IPIP] as prepared by the Implementing
Agent [IA]. Review and sign-off on the Project Execution Plans Versions 2 – 7
prepared by the Implementing Agent [IA]. Review and recommend Variation
Orders in terms of contract management practice and financial implications in
collaboration with professionals in the Directorate Physical Resources
Planning. Recommend authorisation of payments in line with the conditions of
the appointments, contract management practices and within financial
delegations. Develop and Approve Project Stage reports & designs, in
accordance with strategic decision-making points as defined in the Provincial
Infrastructure Delivery Framework. [IDMS]. Manage the updating of
project/programme documentation and information and submit all built
environment documentation to the Deputy Director Finance. Manage the
interface between the end-user/community structures and Implementing Agent
[IA]. Prepare and submit progress reports [financial and non-financial
indicators]. Maintenance Projects: Assess departmental projects that qualify for
departmental funding assessed. Manage the implementation of day-to-day,
routine and emergency maintenance projects funded by department. Provide
guidance to the preparation of maintenance plans. Provide training to districts
and schools in terms of day-to-day, routine and emergency maintenance plans
87
and projects. On an annual basis, evaluate day-to-day, routine and emergency
projects implemented by Districts and Schools. Monitor Section 21 allocations
for maintenance. Monitor preparation of disaster management plans.
Infrastructure Project Commissioning: Coordinate and participate in project
commissioning, including site visits. Review the School Maintenance Plan and
budget on completion of projects. Collect and update NEIMS and EFMS
information [if applicable] in terms of Technical Condition Assessments on
completion of projects. Orientate users in terms of the optimal usage of
Facilities. Infrastructure Programme and Project Evaluation: Review
infrastructure projects and programmes in line with the built environment
norms, standards and legislative requirements. Manage the preparation of the
project close out reports. Manage and participate in Post Project and Post
Occupancy Evaluation exercises. Provide feedback to Directorate Physical
Resources Planning on functional and technical norms and standards that
should be updated from an architectural perspective. Participate in the
continuous improvement of best practices, standardised processes and
procedures, software applications and tools. Research/literature studies to
keep up with new technologies, viability and feasibility of the geographical
information management options for the Department including interaction with
relevant professional development boards/councils: Study professional
journals and publications to stay abreast of new developments. Monitor and
study the education sector, legal frameworks, standards changes and policy
frameworks. Engage in relevant continuous professional development
activities [tools and techniques] as prescribed and/or required. Update the
Infrastructure comprehensive planning framework of Department in terms of
research findings, new technology and changes in the institutional
environment. Interact with relevant Professional Bodies/Councils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9292
POST 14/107 : ARCHITECT GRADE A REF NO: PS03/2026/06
Physical Resource Planning and Property Management Directorate
Infrastructure Planning Sub Directorate
SALARY : R791 604 – R849 525 per annum, (all-inclusive annual salary package) of
which 30% may be structured according to the individual’s needs. The
department will determine the salary notch based on years’ experience post
professional registration.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A University degree in Architecture and/or equivalent qualification as
recognised by SAQA. (NQF Level 7). Registered as a Professional Architect
with the South African Council for Architectural Profession (SACAP), Valid
driver’s license, a minimum of 3 years’ experience post qualification. Added
Advantage Computer literacy and a Certificate in Infrastructure Delivery
Management System will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Architectural functional and technical norms and standards: Determine
functional and technical norms and standards to be issued in terms of the
Provincial Education Facilities Guidelines and National Education norms and
standards. Validate that infrastructure projects implemented by Implementing
Agent[s] comply with approved functional and technical norms and standards
including compliance to legal, safety and health requirements. Update
functional and technical norms and standards based on learning generated
through post project evaluations and post occupancy evaluations. Architectural
policies, strategies, plans, procedures and criteria of all infrastructure
programmes and projects: Make inputs to policies, procedures and criteria for
infrastructure projects from an architectural perspective. Make inputs to
commissioning plans from an architectural perspective. Undertake extensive
analyses from an architectural perspective to inform strategies related to the
architectural services to directly support and realise the education goals of the
Department. Master Planning, Project Briefs, Business Cases,
Accommodation Schedules and Operational Narratives: Develop Master
Plans. Develop Project Briefs. Develop Project Execution Plan Version 1 as
part of the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Review Project
Execution Plans Versions 2-7 in terms of architectural norms and standards
and make inputs to the Directorate Infrastructure Delivery Management.
Develop Business Cases for projects. Develop Accommodation Schedules.
Develop Operational Narratives. Determine document management system
requirements from architectural perspectives. Determine green technology
compliance requirements. Preparation of architectural inputs to the
development of the User Asset Management Plan and Project List: Provide
88
inputs to the development of the User Asset Management Plan. Prepare the
final project list. Assist with Condition Assessment of projects implemented in
the MTEF from an architectural perspective. Research/literature studies to
keep up with new technologies, viability and feasibility of the geographical
information management options for the Department including interaction with
relevant professional development boards/councils: Study professional
journals and publications to stay abreast of new developments. Monitor and
study the education sector, legal frameworks, standards changes and policy
frameworks. Engage in relevant continuous professional development
activities [tools and techniques] as prescribed and/or required. Update the
Infrastructure comprehensive planning framework of Department in terms of
research findings, new technology and changes in the institutional
environment. Interact with relevant Professional Bodies/Councils.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9292
POST 14/108 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: PS03/2026/08
Physical Resource Planning and Property Management Directorate
Property Management Sub Directorate
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07), (a basic annual salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An applicable 3 year Diploma or equivalent qualification (NQF 6) in Business
Management, Public Management or Built Environment. A valid Driver’s
license. Preference to candidates with relevant NQF Level 7 qualifications.
Added Advantage: Computer literacy and a Relevant experience will be an
added advantage.
DUTIES : To assist with the collecting and updating of information for immovable assets
in line with the requirements stated on NEIMS survey forms and the
requirement of the Provincial Asset Register managed by Public Works. To
assist with the acquisitions of immovable assets [land and buildings] for
Facilities in close consultation with Public Works. To assist with the disposal of
immovable assets [land and buildings] for Facilities in close with Public Works.
Assist Consultation with Districts and schools to obtain their needs and inputs
in terms of acquisitions and disposals. Undertake all deeds searches to
validate ownership of land before planning for buildings are finalised. Update
the register of sites allocated to Education for future infrastructure
development. Assist to interpret lease needs and identify suitable buildings for
leases. Interact with Districts and Schools on proposed buildings for leases.
Administrate Section 14 lease contracts. Administrate the payment of
municipal accounts through the finance section. Identify excessive use of water
and electricity. Make inputs to the preparation of guidelines on the use of
utilities by Schools. Assist to train Districts on the guidelines for use of utilities.
Make recommendations and/or propose interventions to improve the use of
utilities by Facilities. Undertake planning for future human resource needs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9292
POST 14/109 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY MANAGEMENT
REF NO: PS03/2026/09 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Infrastructure Finance Sub Directorate
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : B Comm. Degree with Accounting II / National Diploma in Accounting with
Accounting II or equivalent qualification. Relevant experience will be an added
advantage. Computer literacy and valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To assist with the following: Extract and analyse relevant infrastructure financial
information. Provide financial administration for all infrastructure Programmes
and Projects. Provide assistance to ensure compliance to the financial policies
and prescripts in terms of infrastructure. Update and maintain a document
management system for all financial documentation that comply with
requirements of the Auditor General.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9227
POST 14/110 : WORKS INSPECTOR REF NO: PS03/2026/10 (X2 POSTS)
Infrastructure Delivery Management Directorate
Infrastructure Programmes/Projects and Maintenance Sub Directorate
SALARY : R280 278 – R330 162 per annum (Level 06), (a basic annual salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Head Office
89
REQUIREMENTS : An applicable 3-year degree/diploma or equivalent qualification in Building or
Mechanical or Electrical or N3 with passed trade test or National Diploma in
Engineering. 2 -3 years relevant experience and a Valid Driver’s license.
DUTIES : Design Of Maintenance System: Make inputs to the design of the maintenance
system. Assist to provide information for the design and updating of the
electronic maintenance management system. Assist to interact with
information technology services on the specifications of the updating of the
maintenance management system. Assist to develop the maintenance policy
and procedures. Training On Maintenance System: Assist to develop training
manuals on the maintenance management system. Assist to provide training
to Districts on the maintenance management system. Assist to roll out the
maintenance management system. Update the maintenance management
system in term of work completed. Call Center: Assist with the establishment
and functioning of the call center. Assist to provide training to personnel in the
call center. Assist to develop standard operating procedure manuals for the call
center. Extract information on calls logged and resolved. Provide technical
inputs to call logged. Investigate cases that have not been resolved. NEIMS
Assessments, Specification and Projects: Assist to provide relevant data and
information for updating NEIMS and Facility Management Systems. Assist to
prepare specifications. Assist to develop a bill of quantities. Assist to develop
proposals on associated costs. Assist to make recommendations on
quotations. Inspect maintenance work on projects sites. Verify invoices and
make recommendations for payments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moet Tel No: (051) 404 9292
POST 14/111 : WORKS INSPECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE CO-ORDINATION AND
DELIVERY (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 – R330 162 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Head Office:
Motheo District Office Ref No: PS03/2026/11 (X1 Post)
Lejweleputswa District Office Ref No: PS03/2026/12 (X1 Post)
Fezile Dabi District Office Ref No: PS03/2026/13 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An applicable 3-year degree/diploma or equivalent qualification in Building or
Mechanical or Electrical or N3 with passed trade test or National Diploma in
Engineering. 2 -3 years relevant experience and a Valid Driver’s license.
DUTIES : Design Of Maintenance System: Make inputs to the design of the maintenance
system. Assist to provide information for the design and updating of the
electronic maintenance management system. Assist to interact with
information technology services on the specifications of the updating of the
maintenance management system. Assist to develop the maintenance policy
and procedures. Training On Maintenance System: Assist to develop training
manuals on the maintenance management system. Assist to provide training
to Districts on the maintenance management system. Assist to roll out the
maintenance management system. Update the maintenance management
system in term of work completed. Call Center: Assist with the establishment
and functioning of the call center. Assist to provide training to personnel in the
call center. Assist to develop standard operating procedure manuals for the call
center. Extract information on calls logged and resolved. Provide technical
inputs to call logged. Investigate cases that have not been resolved. Neims
Assessments, Specification and Projects: Assist to provide relevant data and
information for updating NEIMS and Facility Management Systems. Assist to
prepare specifications. Assist to develop a bill of quantities. Assist to develop
proposals on associated costs. Assist to make recommendations on
quotations. Inspect maintenance work on projects sites. Verify invoices and
make recommendations for payments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9292
POST 14/112 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: PS03/2026/14
Physical Resource Planning and Property Management Directorate
Property Management Sub Directorate
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : NQF 4 (Gr. 12 Certificate) Added Advantage: Preference will be given to
candidates with technical qualifications related to infrastructure. Knowledge of
Computer (Excel and Word) will be essential. Post-Matric Qualifications will be
an added advantage.
90
DUTIES : Assist with general office administration in the office of Infrastructure
Programmes. Handling files, typing and keeping records up to date, handling
telephone enquiries and any other admin official duties as may be assigned.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9292
POST 14/113 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: PS03/2026/15
Physical Resource Planning and Property Management Directorate
Property Management Sub Directorate
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : NQF 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualification.
DUTIES : Provide Registry counter service. Attend to clients. Handle telephonic and other
enquiries received. Receive and register hand delivered mail/files. Handle
incoming and outgoing correspondence. Receive, sort, register and dispatch
all mail. Distribute notices on registry issues. Render an effective filing and
record management service. Opening and closing files according to record
classification system. Filing, storage, tracing (electronical and manual) and
retrieval of documents and files. Complete index cards for all files. Operate
office machines in relation to the registry function. Update register on a daily
basis. Process documents for archiving and disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Moeti Tel No: (051) 404 9292
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : For The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure to be submitted to:
Head: Public Works and Infrastructure, Human Resources Management
Directorate. P.O Box 7551, Bloemfontein, 9300 Or Applications that are hand
delivered must be brought at the Foyer of OR Tambo House where they must
be placed in the appropriately marked box at: Security Ground Floor, OR
Tambo House, St. Andrews Street, Bloemfontein or e-mail to e-
recruitmentfsdpwi@fsworks.gov.za. No Applications will be accepted by staff in
offices in the building.
CLOSING DATE : 15 May 2026
NOTE : Directions to applicants: Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Z83 application form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at http://www.info.gov.za. The Z83 should be completed in a manner
that allows the selection committee to assess the application based on the
information provided on the form. Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit
the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication. If the certified copies contradict the
details on the CV or Z83 form, the candidate will automatically be disqualified
and removed from the shortlist. Should an applicant possess a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Applicants must
indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications. Should an
applicant wish to apply for more than one post, separate applications must be
submitted i.e. all the documentation must be submitted for each post applied
for. Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply
with these instructions will not be considered. Candidates requiring additional
information regarding the advertised post should direct their enquiries to the
relevant person as indicated in the advertisement. Note: Successful completion
of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the
National School of Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Short-listed candidates will
on the day of interview undergo a security assessment. Suitable candidates
will be subjected to personnel suitability checks as deemed appropriate and
inclusive inter alia of criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record checks, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification. The successful candidate will be required to enter into
a performance agreement, annually disclose financial interests, and comply
91
with all requirements applicable to members of the Senior Management
Service. The Department is committed to the achievement and maintenance of
diversity and equity in employment, particularly in respect of race, gender, and
disability. Preference will therefore be given to candidates whose appointment
will promote representativeness in line with the Department’s Employment
Equity Plan. If you have not been contacted within 4 months of the closing date
of this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Faxed or late applications will not be accepted.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/114 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: PWI 26/04
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package). The remuneration
package consists of a basic salary (70%), the Employer contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and
which may include 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner’s
Allowance, And Medical Aid Assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an appropriate Bachelor’s Degree or
Advance Diploma (NQF Level 7) in Accounting, Financial Management,
Commerce, Economics or an equivalent related qualification as recognised by
SAQA. A postgraduate qualification and professional registration will be
advantageous. Applicants must have a minimum of ten (10) years’ relevant
experience in financial management, budgeting and public sector financial
administration, of which at least five (5) years must be at senior managerial
level. Extensive experience in the public service environment, preferably within
a Public Works, Infrastructure, Property Management, Human Settlements,
Transport, Roads or related built-environment portfolio will be a strong
requirement. Applicants must have a sound knowledge of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa, 1996, the Public Finance Management Act,
1999(PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act and Regulations,
Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP), Supply Chain
Management prescripts, GIAMA and all other legislation, regulations, directives
and frameworks governing financial administration, asset management,
infrastructure expenditure and public accountability in Government.
Completion of the Nyukela Pre-Entry Certificate to Senior Management
Services, as endorsed by the National School of Government, is a prerequisite
for appointment. A valid drivers’ licence is also required. The ideal candidate
must demonstrate proven strategic capability and leadership, advanced
financial and analytical skills, sound knowledge of public sector governance,
high-level communication ability, people management and empowerment,
programme and project management, change management, policy analysis
and implementation, service delivery innovation, and a strong commitment to
ethics, accountability and good governance. The candidate must possess the
capacity to function effectively at executive management level, provide sound
strategic advice to the Head of Department and Executive Authority and drive
financial discipline, operational efficiency, institutional compliance and
improved audit outcomes in a complex public sector environment. Added
Advantage: Sector-Specific Exposure Preference will be given to candidates
with demonstrable experience in the financial oversight of: Public Works and
Infrastructure programmes; Property and accommodation management; Lease
management and facilities-related expenditure; Infrastructure planning and
implementation budgets; Maintenance and capital works expenditure;
Immovable asset management and reporting; Public sector procurement in
construction and built-environment contexts Personal Attributes The
Department seeks a candidate who is visionary, decisive, disciplined, and
highly ethical; one who demonstrates sound judgement, resilience, maturity,
and the ability to operate under pressure in a demanding governance
environment. The incumbent must be capable of balancing strategic leadership
with operational rigour and must display an unwavering commitment to
accountability, transparency, and stewardship of public resources.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will report directly to the Head of Department and will
be responsible for the following: Strategic Financial Management: Provide
strategic leadership and direction on all financial management matters of the
Department. Ensure that the Department’s financial strategies, plans, and
systems support the overall mandate of the institution and are aligned to
government priorities, service delivery imperatives, infrastructure development
92
plans, and applicable legislative requirements. Budget Planning and
Expenditure Management: Manage and oversee the preparation, coordination,
and implementation of the Department’s budget, including MTEF processes,
cash flow projections, in-year monitoring, expenditure reporting, and budget
performance reviews. Ensure optimal allocation and utilisation of resources
and institute control measures to prevent under-expenditure, over-expenditure,
unauthorised expenditure, and fiscal instability. Financial Accounting and
Reporting: Oversee the preparation of accurate, complete, and timely financial
reports, including monthly, quarterly, and annual financial statements, in
accordance with GRAP, PFMA, Treasury prescripts, and other reporting
frameworks. Ensure proper management of financial transactions,
reconciliations, commitments, accruals, payables, receivables, suspense
accounts, and disclosure requirements. Supply Chain and Financial
Governance: Provide executive oversight over the financial governance
aspects of supply chain management, demand planning, acquisition
management, logistics, contract management, and compliance monitoring.
Ensure that procurement processes are consistent with the constitutional
principles of fairness, equity, transparency, competitiveness, and cost-
effectiveness, and that all procurement-related financial risks are properly
managed. Asset and Infrastructure Financial Oversight: Lead the financial
management of departmental movable and immovable assets and provide
oversight on infrastructure-related expenditure, maintenance budgets, lease
commitments, accommodation costs, capital planning, asset verification,
impairment, disposal, and related financial reporting obligations. Ensure that
the financial dimensions of custodianship, user asset management planning,
and infrastructure investment are properly governed. Internal Controls,
Compliance and Risk Management: Establish, strengthen, and monitor internal
financial control systems to ensure full compliance with the PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, audit requirements, and internal policies. Ensure effective
management of irregular, fruitless and wasteful, and unauthorised expenditure,
including reporting, investigation support, corrective action, and consequence
management processes. Audit Coordination and Governance Support:
Support the Accounting Officer in discharging statutory financial governance
responsibilities. Coordinate responses to Internal Audit, Audit Committee, and
Auditor-General findings. Drive the implementation of audit action plans and
ensure the institution is audit-ready at all times. Promote sound governance
practices and a strong control environment aimed at achieving and sustaining
clean audit outcomes. Organisational Leadership and Capacity Building: Lead
and manage the Finance Branch, including the functions of budgeting, financial
accounting, revenue management, expenditure management, supply chain
financial oversight, asset management, and internal control. Build institutional
capability through effective leadership, performance management, mentoring,
succession planning, and accountability.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Tshabalala Head: Public Works and Infrastructure Tel No: (051) 492 3909
93
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted on a (PDF Format only) to the following E-
Recruitment Email: TMH.RecruitmentHR@gauteng.gov.za. Applications can
be forwarded to the Human Resource Department, Tambo Memorial Hospital,
Private Bag X2, Boksburg, 1459. Physical Address: Railway Street, Boksburg,
1459.
CLOSING DATE : 15 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must include only completed and signed new Form Z83,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
(www.dpsa.gov.za/documents) accompanied by a comprehensive CV
highlighting or stating the requirements mentioned above. Only the shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of Identity document,
Senior Certificate and highest required qualification as well as a driver’s licence
where necessary on or before interviews. Applicants must indicate the post
reference number on their applications. Qualifications of candidates
recommended for appointment will be verified. Foreign qualifications will only
be submitted by shortlisted candidates. Applications received after closing date
and time will not be considered. Whites, coloured and people with disability are
encouraged to apply. The candidates will be expected to be available for
selection interviews on the date, time and place determined by the Department.
NB: All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements other must
be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/115 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING SPECIALTY AREA PN-B4 (THEATRE/
ICU) REF NO: REFS/TMH/2026/04/01 (X1 POST)
Directorate: Nursing Services
SALARY : R785 568 – R898 215 per annum, plus benefits
CENTRE : Tambo Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic qualification accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice
R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of ten (10)
years appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Atleast six (6) years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognizable experience in
the speciality after obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification in either ICU/
Theatre. Atleast three (3) years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/ recognizable experience at a Management level. Diploma/ Degree
in Nursing Administration, Computer literacy, knowledge and insight of Nursing
processes, procedures, statutes and other relevant public service acts.
Decision and problem-solving skills, interpersonal and conflict management
skills. Knowledge of Ideal hospital framework, norms and standards, Batho-
Pele principles. Good communication skills, supervisory and analytical skills.
Basic understanding of Human Resources and Financial management policies
and practices.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate the implementation of holistic, comprehensive,
specialized Nursing care in the intensive care unit, theatre and CSSD in
conjunction with team members within a professional and legal framework.
Ensure the maintenance of quality care standards in the ICU, Theatre and
CSSD services. Ensure adequate supervision of staff and personal quality cost
effective and efficient patient care. Ensure effective utilization of all infection
control and prevention practices by all staff including support services and
cleaning staff. Supervise the implementation of health care delivery policies
procedures, clinical guidelines and protocols, operational and strategic plans
aimed at improving service delivery. Execute disciplinary code and grievance
procedure up to the required level and then refer to the Deputy Manager
Nursing. Facilitate implementation of departmental priorities and National Core
Standards. Monitor and evaluate the care, ensure effective data management.
Ensure that ethics and professionalism is maintained, demonstrate effective
communication with staff, patients and multidisciplinary and other
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. C.M Malekane Tel No: (011) 898 8311
94
POST 14/116 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING AREA REF NO: REFS/TMH/2026/04/02
(X1 POST)
Directorate: Nursing Services
SALARY : R720 819 – R846 282 per annum, plus benefits
CENTRE : Tambo Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic qualification accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice
R425 (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of eight (08)
years appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. A diploma / Degree in
Nursing Administration or Health Service Management. Atleast three (3) years
of the period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognizable experience
at Management level. Strong leadership skills, good communication and writing
skills. Problem solving, conflict resolution skills, able to work above under
pressure. Sound interrelationship is necessary in understanding of National
Core Standards and Ideal Hospital Framework, Nursing Strategy, PFMA,
Labour relations and other related legislation framework. Basic computer skill
or qualification.
DUTIES : Delegate, supervise and coordinate the provision of effective and efficient
Patient care through adequate nursing care. Initiate and participate in health
promotion to ensure consistence communication of relevant, accurate and
comprehensive information on health care. Develop / establish and maintain
constructive working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders (i.e. inter-
sectoral and multidisciplinary teamwork). Participate in the analysis,
formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, policies and
standard operating procedures. Manage effective utilization and supervision of
human, financial and material resources. Coordination of provision of effective
training and research. Maintain professional growth / ethical standards and
development of self and subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. C.M Malekane Tel No: (011) 898 8311
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS AND TRANSPORT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below positions, please apply online at
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za Only online applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 15 May 2026
NOTE : Applicants must utilise the most recent Z83 application form for employment,
issued by the Minister for the Public Service and Administration in line with
Regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016. All fields in the New
Z83 form must be completed, initialled and signed. Furthermore, a
comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) must also be attached. Failure to attach
the completed Z83 and Comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) will result in
disqualification. The New Z83 form is obtainable from any Public Service
Department or the DPSA website www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Only
shortlisted candidates who meet all the requirements of the post will be
requested to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
valid driver’s license (where driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the
job) not older than six (06) months. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. It is our intention to promote representation (race, gender and
disability) in the Public Service through the filling of posts and candidates
whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representation will receive
preference. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity through the filling
of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate
this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability status is
required. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The
Department reserves the right not to appoint. If you do not receive any
response from us within 3 months, please accept your application was
unsuccessful. In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan,
preference will be given to Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Females
candidates.
95
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/117 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: REFS/045398
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 – R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion of
30% that may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes state’s
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary). The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree (NQF level 7). Admission as an Attorney/Advocate of the High
Court of South Africa. At least 5 years’ experience at a middle or senior
managerial level within a legal environment. Extensive knowledge of the South
African Constitution, Public Service Act, Public Finance Management Act,
Administrative Law, and other relevant legislation and policies. Strong
communication skills, strategic leadership, financial management, litigation
management, drafting of contracts, and conflict resolution skills. A valid driver’s
license and completion of the Nyukela Senior Management Pre-entry
certificate endorsed by National School of Government submitted prior to
appointment.
DUTIES : Manage and ensure an effective provision of Litigation. Provide sound litigation
advise. Monitor the implementation of & provide advice on the interpretation
and application of all pieces of legislation. Liaise with the state attorney’s office,
State Law advisors and on litigation matters. Provide advice the prosecution of
all legal actions by and against the department. Ensure department’s legal
capacity is strengthened to provide effective legal advice and opinions. Ensure
daily tracking of court decisions that might impact the department. Oversee and
manage a detailed legal analysis of contracts. Compile and manage legal
contracts. Approve, draft, vet, and review contracts in an efficient contract
management system. Provide legal advisory services. Oversee and ensure
smooth and effective legal advice and support to management. Ensure that
legal problems are dealt with quickly and advise on corrective measures to
prevent similar problems in the future. Ensure compliance with all relevant laws
and policies by the department. Assist in drafting of proposed legislation and
policies Interpret legislation, contracts and resolve disputes. Conduct legal
audits to ensure minimize potential liability and enable favourable action based
on existing provisions. Manage the Directorate. Develop and manage the
operational plan of the Directorate and report on progress as required.
Develop, implement, and maintain processes to ensure proper control of work.
Compile and submit all required reports. Plan and allocate work to
subordinates. Check the quality of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo/ Mr. E Mpateni Tel No: (011) 355-7521/7252
For general enquiries please contact Human Resource Tel No: (011) 355-
7521/7252.
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Females candidates.
96
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
“We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and as such, this
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote inclusiveness
in all occupational levels in the Department”.
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be forwarded to: The Chief Director: Human Resource
Management Services, KZN Department of Health, Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 OR Hand delivered to: 330 Langalibalele Street Natalia
Building, Registry, Minus 1:1 North Tower. Interested applicants can visit the
following website at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details.“
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or submit their Z83 and CV directly
to the following email address:
HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za NB//: The subject of your
email must be the post name that you are applying for. “Applicants may also
visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) where
our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy
application. You can find the list of Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS) at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Miss TNN Ngema
CLOSING DATE : 15 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The appointments are subject
to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to the
following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance, credit
records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication from Human Resources. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by
SAQA and to provide proof of such evaluation. Applicants: Please ensure that
you submit your application before the closing date as no late applications will
be considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate applications
for each post that you apply for. Should you not be contacted within 3 months
of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. NB: For the Pre-Entry Certificate for SMS, any individual may
register for the course and complete such in anticipation of wishing to apply for
an SMS post in future. The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by
following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-courses/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. Individuals who have completed the course already, and who are
therefore in possession of a certificate are welcome to submit such, however it
is not required that an applicant submit such when applying for the post prior
to the closing date. However, prior to an appointment being made to any SMS
post, the appointee to such a post must have completed the pre-entry
certificate and must be in possession of such prior to taking up the post. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be and integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. NB: All shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit proof of work experience endorsed and
stamped by the employer/s prior to the date of the interview.
97
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/118 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: HEALTH SERVICE PLANNING, MONITORING AND
EVALUATION REF NO: G32/2026
Cluster: Health Service Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum, (an all-inclusive SMS salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric Certificate, An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 07) as
recognized by SAQA in Business Administration/Management or Public
Administration / Management / Public Health, Five (5) years of experience at a
senior managerial level in Strategic Management Services environment; plus
Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code 08). Additional Qualifications:
Experience in Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation will be an added advantage.
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies The incumbent of this post will
report to the Head of Department and will be responsible for managing the
Department’s Strategic Planning and Information Management Services in
accordance with various legislation, regulations and policies: Manage strategic
planning and health economics services. The ideal candidate must: have
thorough knowledge of Government Governance Management Framework as
well as legislative and other mandates regulating support services in the public
sector Extensive knowledge of and skills to develop effective and efficient office
systems, tools and mechanisms to optimize the performance of the Office of
Strategic Planning and Support Services Possess knowledge of Human
Resource and Financial Management and other related Acts, regulations,
frameworks, prescripts and directives Skills in Project management, Problem
Solving, Computer Skills, Change Management, Strategic Management,
Planning and organisational skills, Communication skills, Report writing skills,
Decision Making, Problem Solving and Analytical skills Values/Attributes:
Innovation, Concern for excellence, Courtesy, Drive and Enthusiasm High level
of communication (both written and verbal) with the Management in the
Department, Colleagues, Trade Unions, Provincial Health Council, Private
Hospitals, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO) and other departments.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others: Facilitate the
development of Departmental Strategic, Service Delivery and Annual
Performance plans Oversee the development of costing models and cost
benefit analysis Identify potential risks in health service delivery Ensure
compliance to strategic and performance plans Participate in the Social Cluster
Programme Participate in District Task Team Activities (including DDM and
OSS) Ensure provision of data management services and monitoring and
evaluation services: Manage provision of accurate and functional information
to support planning, performance management and decision making Ensure
provision of geographic information systems platform Develop and facilitate the
implementation of a monitoring and evaluation framework Asses overall
performance of the Department against performance indicators Develop and
oversee the implementation of the Audit improvement Plan for pre-determined
objectives Ensure provision of epidemiology services through health research
initiatives: Oversee the development and maintenance of knowledge
framework for the department Oversee health research initiatives and research
on disease trends Ensure provision of epidemiology profiling and early warning
services Oversee the development and maintenance of a health research and
clinical trials policy framework for the department Ensure the development and
implementation of policies: Ensure the implementation of National, Provincial
and Departmental frameworks Ensure the implementation of policies according
to agreed norms and standards Monitor and evaluate compliance with
implemented policies Report on any discrepancies in regard to compliance to
all relevant stakeholders Review and amend policies relevant to the unit as and
when required based on input from stakeholders Ensure the effective, efficient
and economical management of allocated resources of the Chief Directorate:
Manage the financial resources Manage the human resources Manage the
allocated assets Manage potential risks and mitigation strategies Provide
strategic management, planning, leadership and direction Monitor and ensure
that the whole Chief Directorate complies with the dictates of the PFMA and
other Governance Regulations
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. TP Msimango Tel No: (033) 395 2589
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or submit their Z83 and CV directly
to the following email address:
HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za
98
POST 14/119 : ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL SERVICES REF NO: G34/2026
Cluster: Infrastructure Development and Technical Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary packages, which
consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured
in terms of the applicable rules).
CENTRE : Head Office Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Bachelor Degree in Civil/Structural or
Electrical/Mechanical Engineering; (NQF Level 7). Five (5) years’ experience
at a middle/senior managerial level. Computer Literacy: MS Office Software
Applications; Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code 08). Registered
as a Professional Engineer with ECSA. Executive Course or Certificate in
Infrastructure Delivery Management will serve as a recommendation.
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies: The incumbent of this post will
report to the Chief Director: Infrastructure Development and Technical Services
and will be responsible to provide effective and efficient management of the
maintenance of Healthcare Facilities, Laundries, utilities, other infrastructure
and related technical support services that sustain an enabling environment for
health care delivery in cost effective manner. The ideal candidate must have:
Knowledge in PFMA/DORA/Treasury Regulations, Practice Notes, Instructions
and Circulars, Provincial/Departmental Supply Chain Management Policies,
Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000 and Regulations,
Competence Standards for Construction Procurement as issued by CIDB etc.
Skills in: Management Strategic Capability and Leadership. Programme and
Project Management. Financial Management. Change Management.
Knowledge Management. Service Delivery. Problem Solving and Analysis.
People Management and Empowerment. Client Orientation and Customer
Focus: Communication. Computer Literate.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others to: Manage
the maintenance of health facilities, utilities and infrastructure: Determine the
inputs for the scheduled and preventive maintenance plans/strategies
including conceptual planning for scheduled maintenance. Determine the
inputs to Health Facilities in terms of day-to-day maintenance. Provide inputs
in terms of targets and indicators for infrastructure maintenance to the
Directorate Infrastructure Programme Delivery. Coordinate and monitor the
implementation of the maintenance plans and day-to-day and preventative
maintenance. Provide inputs to Health Facilities in terms of planning for
disposals of related equipment. Manage the monitoring and evaluation of
deployed technology. Mange the provision of professional engineering services
and providing support to the Chief Directorate and Health Facilities: Manage
the research of maintenance technologies. Monitor and promote the effective
utilization of utilities and provide feedback to the Directorate: Planning. Provide
inputs to the Directorate: Infrastructure Planning in terms of setting functional
and technical norms and standards. Develop guidelines for the maintenance
of Health Facilities in close consultation with the Directorate: Infrastructure
Planning. Determine detailed maintenance and supply specifications for
procurement for day-to-day maintenance, emergency maintenance, minor
specifications provided by the Directorate: Infrastructure Planning. Oversee the
implementation of the provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act
related to equipment safety in Health Facilities (compliance). Manage the
provision of linen and laundry services to Health Facilities: Report on the
provision of cost effective, efficient and quality of linen and laundry services to
Health Facilities. Report on the inventory and stock control of linen. Report on
risks associated with the rendering of laundry services. Report on outsourced
contracts. Manage the acquisition and development of maintenance resources:
Capacitate Maintenance Hubs. Effective and efficient functioning of Provincial,
District and Facility Maintenance Hubs. Manage the establishment and
updating of maintenance strategy and system focusing on day-to-day,
routine/preventative and emergency maintenance. Compliance of the provision
of the Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS) related to equipment and
effective waste management: Report on the establishment of the statutory
structures as required in terms of the Act. Report on the establishment of the
statutory structures as required in terms of the Act. Report on OHS training
interventions as all Health Facilities in terms of equipment. Monitor compliance
of equipment with the OHS Act in all Health Facilities. Approve waste
management policies and procedures. Manage healthcare infrastructure risk
and quality improvement program: Provide inputs to policies, norms and
standards and procedures to the Directorate: Infrastructure Planning. Manage
99
the overall provision of training of users and engineering/technical staff on
policies. Approve the quality improvement plan. Approve the risk management
plan (including adverse events). Management of the finances as Programme
Manager for the Directorate: Use of funds in the directorate effectively,
efficiently and in compliance with Public Finance Management Act.
Procurement Management in terms of evaluation and adjudication of tenders.
Strategic Management: Engineering directorate aligned its core business to
that of the Chief Directorate. Engineering staff in the Directorate understands
their roles and responsibilities. Management of the human resources:
Undertake planning for future human resources needs. Maintain discipline.
Manage performance and development of employees. Undertake human
resource and other related administrative functions. Establish and maintain
effective and efficient communication arrangements. Develop and manage the
operational plan. Plan and allocate work. Develop and implement processes to
promote control of work. Serve on transversal task teams as required.
Implement quality control of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs TP Msimango Tel No: (033) 395 2589
POST 14/120 : DIRECTOR: AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL REF NO: G33/2026
Cluster: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary packages, which
consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured
in terms of the applicable rules).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree with Financial
Management / Management Accounting / Auditing / Corporate Governance or
National Diploma in Financial Management/Public Finance (NQF Level 7; A
minimum of Five (5) appropriate experience at middle/senior managerial level
in an audit/internal control environment; Computer Literacy: MS Office
Software Applications; plus Security Clearance of “Top Secret”; plus
Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code 08). Training Programmes
and/or experience in policy and system development, Project Management as
well as appropriate management development programmes will serve as an
added advantage. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies: The
incumbent of this post will report to the Chief Director: Risk Management,
Investigation and Security Services and will be responsible to ensure that all
audit related matters both internal and external inclusive of the Head Office and
all of KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health institutions are addressed,
undertaken and finalized, provide support to the Department with regards to
co-ordination of all audit matters in the Department and ensure an internal
control environment that will achieve efficiency, reduce risks and ensure
compliance with relevant legislation. The ideal candidate must: Possess sound
knowledge of all legislative prescripts with specific reference to the Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Public Service Act etc;
Experience and knowledge relative to the development of Internal Control
systems and mechanisms/Assessment Tool kits/Checklists. Experience and
expertise in conducting control self-assessments and the compilation of
accurate reports inclusive recommendations for remedial action. Experience in
the analysis of audit reports and findings and development and implementation
of mitigation plans/actions relative to audit findings/queries. Experience in
conducting compliance audits/internal control inspections in all disciplines.
Sound knowledge of all disciplines i.e. Financial Management, Supply Chain
Management, Human Resource Management etc. as well as in-depth
knowledge of systems namely maintenance, transport, security, catering and
IT systems, amongst others. Excellent interpersonal and communication skills,
a persuasive team builder and the ability to motivate and communicate
effectively to achieve exceptional performance. Strong communication and
presentation skills. Good analytical and conceptual ability. Skill and expertise
in problem analysis and problem solving. Results driven with a logical and
methodical approach to achieving tasks and objectives and an active and
dynamic approach to work. Ability to finalising tasks within specific timeframes
and deadlines. Strong leadership and business administration skills. Clinical
thinking and good research ability with strong analytical and resource
management skills. High level of integrity, honesty, diligence,
conscientiousness, reliability and dependability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others: Provide
overall leadership and management of the component inclusive of the
development of strategic and operational plans, implementation and
100
monitoring to ensure the achievement of specific, identified objectives.
Organisational needs addressed. Type of audit outcome (A-G’s audit). Level of
audit preparedness Ensure the effective and efficient management and
utilisation of all resources attached to the component, inclusive of physical,
financial and human resources. Manage all audit related matters emanating
from both internal and external audits, inclusive of facilitation, reporting,
remedial activities and control assessments. Develop, implement and monitor
strategies, policies and systems in line with applicable legislation/frameworks
for the strengthening of the internal control environment in the Department.
Provide an audit liaison function in relation to all oversight committees relevant
to the Department, the office of the Auditor-General and the Provincial
Treasury.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs TP msimango Tel No: (033) 395 2589
POST 14/121 : DIRECTOR: HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT SERVICES REF NO: G35/2026
Cluster: Hospital Management Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary packages, which
consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured
in terms of the applicable rules).
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. MBCHB OR Degree in Nursing (NQF Level 7);
PLUS Current Registration with the relevant professional body i.e. HPCSA or
SANC; Ten (10) years’ experience in a hospital environment of which Five (5)
years must be at middle/senior management level; plus Computer Literacy: MS
Office Software Applications; plus Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license
(Code 08). Post-graduate qualification will be an added advantage and Training
programmes and/or experience in Policy and System Development, Project
Management and Public Administration will serve as a recommendation.
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competence Required: The incumbent of this
post will report to the Chief Director: Hospital Management Services and will
be responsible to develop hospital service systems and policies, defining
implementation protocols, norms and standards and monitoring arrangements
enabling hospitals and community health centre to function optimally in the
delivery of compassionate health services. The ideal candidate must have:
Ability to translate legislation, national policies and imperatives into policies,
guidelines and protocols that can be implemented at provincial level. Ability to
identify best practices based on current research findings and incorporates the
best practice into policies, guidelines and protocols used in the province.
Knowledge of, and expertise in managing hospital systems. Knowledge of, and
expertise in quality assurance methods applicable in hospitals. Knowledge of
licensing requirements for private health care providers. Knowledge of, and
expertise in the integrated planning framework for the provision of health care.
Knowledge of, and expertise in health information systems and the use of
information in the management of hospitals.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others to: Define the
Legislative framework, norms, standards, protocols and guidelines for the
provision of high quality hospital care, based on current best practice. Develop
a monitoring, evaluation and reporting system for all aspects of quality of care
and efficiency of system. Manage the licensing, monitoring and evaluation of
state aided and private health facilities. Ensure the efficient and effective
utilization of resources allocated to the component, inclusive of the
development of staff. Develop systems for provision of high quality care,
including clinical governance systems. Monitor and report on the
implementation of the package of services and efficiency of referral system.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs TP Msimango Tel No: (033) 395 2589
POST 14/122 : DIRECTOR: ICT GOVERNANCE AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT REF NO:
G36/2026
Cluster: Information Technology
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary packages, which
consists of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured
in terms of the applicable rules).
CENTRE : Head Office Pitermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12. Bachelor’s Degree in Information Technology,
Computer Science, Information Systems, or related field (NQF Level 7); Five
(5) years’ experience in middle/senior managerial level. Proven experience in
ICT Governance, PMO Management and Large-scale ICT project
101
implementation. Computer Literacy: MS Office Software Applications, plus
Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code 08). Additional qualification: A
postgraduate qualification (NQF Level 8) in ICT, Business Administration or
Public Management. Certifications in PMP/PRINCE2, COBIT, ITIL and CGEIT.
Knowledge of PFMA. POPIA, DPSA CGICT Framework, King IV and Public
Sector regulations. Experience in the Public Sector and/or Health environment
will be an added advantage. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies:
The incumbent of this post will report to the Chief Information Officer and will
be responsible to provide strategic leadership and management of ICT
governance, portfolio, programme, and project management within the
KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health. The role ensures that ICT initiatives
support service delivery imperatives, improve patient care outcomes and
comply with Public Sector governance, regulatory and audit requirements. The
ideal candidate must have: Strategic Capability and Leadership. Ability to align
ICT with health service delivery priorities. Programme and Project
Management. Advanced capability in managing complex ICT programmes.
Financial Management. Understanding of PFMA, budgeting and cost control.
Change Management. Leading digital transformation and organisational
change. Knowledge Management. Promoting data-driven decision making and
information governance. Service Delivery Innovation. Driving eHealth and
patient-centric digital services. Problem Solving and Analysis. Addressing
complex ICT and service delivery challenges. People Management and
Empowerment. Building and leading high-performing teams. Client Orientation
and Customer Focus. Supporting clinicians and patients through ICT Solutions.
Communication. Strong stakeholder engagement and reporting skills. Honesty
and Integrity. Upholding ethical standards and governance principles.
Technical Competencies: ICT Governance framework (COBIT, ITIL & CGICT);
Project and Programme Management Methodologies. ICT Risk Management
and Compliance; Portfolio and Benefits Realisation Management and Digital
Health Systems and eHealth initiatives.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others: Provide
strategic leadership on ICT governance and ensure alignment with
departmental and national health priorities. Develop and implement ICT
governance frameworks, policies, and standards in line with Public Sector
requirements. Establish and manage ICT Project Management Office (PMO).
Oversee ICT programmes and projects to ensure delivery within scope, time,
cost and quality. Manage the ICT project portfolio and ensure optimal allocation
of resources. Ensure compliance with legislative and regulatory frameworks
including PFMA and POPIA. Lead ICT risk management, audit processes, and
implementation of internal controls. Facilitate stakeholder engagement with
internal business units and external stakeholders (e.g. National Department of
Health, National Treasury, SITA). Manage ICT governance and project budgets
and support procurement processes. Lead and manage staff within directorate,
including performance management and development. Willingness to travel
across districts and health facilities
ENQUIRIES : Mrs TP Msimango Tel No: (033) 395 2589
POST 14/123 : DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMME DELIVERY REF NO:
G29/2026
Cluster: Infrastructure Programme Delivery
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive SMS salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric Certificate, Bachelor Degree (NQF level 07) in the field of
Built Environment; Five (5) years of experience at a middle/ senior managerial
level and/or related management experience in the delivery and oversight of
infrastructure programmes; Plus Computer Literacy: MS Office Software
Applications; plus. Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code 08).
Certificate Course in Infrastructure Delivery Management. Registration with
relevant Professional Council/Board as a Built Environment. Professional
Postgraduate qualification in management will serve as a recommendation.
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies: The incumbent of this post will
report to the Chief Director: Infrastructure Development and Technical Services
and will be responsible to manage the delivery of the total of Infrastructure
Programme related to Capex, minor capital and maintenance projects through
interaction with Districts and Health Facilities and monitoring/oversight of
implementing Agent(s). The ideal candidate must have: Knowledge in
PFMA/DORA/Treasury Regulations, Practice Notes, Instructions and
Circulars, Provincial/Departmental Supply Chain Management Policies,
102
Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000 and Regulations,
Competence Standards for Construction Procurement as issued by CIDB etc.
Skills in: Management Strategic Capability and Leadership Programme and
Project Management Financial Management Change Management Knowledge
Management Service Delivery Problem Solving and Analysis People
Management and Empowerment Communication Computer Literate.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others to: Prepare
Medium Term Expenditure Budget, Annual Budget, Adjustment Budget,
Infrastructure Programme Management Plan, Construction Procurement
Strategy and Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan: Identify
Infrastructure strategic objectives Determine greatest needs of Department
addressed as the highest priorities in terms of infrastructure delivery- including
both Capital and Maintenance Projects Finalise and approve Infrastructure
Programme Management Plans Finalise and approve the procurement
strategy providing value for money to inform the Infrastructure Programme
Management Plan Overseeing Capital and Scheduled Maintenance Project
Implementation: Participate on various Supply Chain Management
Committees Undertake regular project site and visits Implement
commissioning plans effectively and efficiently Finalise and approve all
infrastructure monitoring reports (performance and financial reports) Update
Project/Programme Management Systems Manage feedback learning
generated in terms of the application of approved norms and standards
Manage social facilitation Monitor EPWP targets Management of Infrastructure
budget as Infrastructure Programme Manager for assigned projects: Use of
funds in terms of contracts issued effectively, efficiently and in compliance with
Public Finance Management Act. Review and approve cost, variations, Task
and Work orders Prepare financial reports including management information
Strategic Management: Align Directorate core business and strategic
objectives to that of the department Provide clarity to professionals and support
staff to understand their roles and responsibilities Effective and efficient
resources management: Undertake planning for future human resource needs
Maintain Discipline Manage performance and development of employees
Undertake human resources and other related administrative functions
Establish and maintain effective and efficient communication arrangements
Develop and manage the operational plan. Plan and allocate work Develop and
implement processes to promote control of work Serve on transversal task
teams as required Implement quality control of work delivered by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. TP Msimango Tel No: (033) 395 2589
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or submit their Z83 and CV directly
to the following email address:
HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za The subject of your email
must be the post name that you are applying for. “
POST 14/124 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL ADVISORY SERVICES REF NO: G31/2026
Cluster: Legal Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive SMS salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric Certificate, An LLB Degree (NQF level 07) or equivalent (B
Uris; B Proc; BA Law and B Com Law together with old LLB); A minimum of
Five (5) years of experience at a middle/ senior managerial level in a legal
practice. Plus Admission to practice either as an Advocate or an Attorney in the
High Court of South Africa; plus Computer Literacy: MS Office Software
Applications; plus Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code 08).
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies: The incumbent of this post will
report to the Chief Director: Legal Services, and provide legal advisory services
to the department in accordance with the current legislation, policy and general
legal practice imperatives: The ideal candidate must Possess extensive
knowledge of civil and criminal procedures Knowledge in all legal matters
impacting on the area of operation of the Department Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service
Extensive knowledge of all health legislation, both National and Provincially
Broad knowledge of health related issues Legal drafting skills Excellent
communication skills, both verbal and written Excellent human relations
Knowledge and competency in managing human, physical and financial
resources Be computer literate with a proficiency in all Microsoft Office
Software applications.
103
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others: Provide
overall management of the Litigation, Contracts and Legislation sub-
components, inclusive of strategic and operational management: Develop,
implement and monitor policies and systems to a specific legal framework and
ensure compliance therewith Render a comprehensive legal advisory service
including legal opinions and legal research: Render legal drafting services to
the Department inclusive of technical advice with regard to the drafting of all
departmental contracts Ensure the effective and efficient management and
utilisation of all resources attached to the component, inclusive of physical,
financial and human resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. TP Msimango Tel No: (033) 395 2589
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” or submit their Z83 and CV directly
to the following email address:
HeadOffice.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za The subject of your email
must be the post name that you are applying for. “
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applications can also be
submitted via the e-services system please assess this site on
(eservices.gov.za)
FOR ATTENTION : Ms Z Ndlela
CLOSING DATE : 12 May 2026
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. The Z83 Must Be Completed In
Full. Application must be accompanied by a detailed CV Only the provisionally
shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit supporting documents
(certified copies of qualifications, drivers license etc.) All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake to pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Applicants need to ensure that they obtain and submit
their foreign qualifications verified with SAQA if shortlisted or provisionally
shortlisted. Non-South African citizens or permanent residency holders, if
provisionally shortlisted, will be required to submit proof of citizenship The
Department will also conduct reference checks with HR of current /previous
employer(s) beside the references provided on CV. Candidates will be
subjected to security screening and a technical assessment. Under no
circumstances will be faxed, emailed and late applications be accepted. The
Department discourages applications that are registered and will not be held
responsible for applications sent via registered mail which are not collected
from the post office. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the
application reaches the Department timeously. Regrettably, due to excessive
budget cuts, the department is not in a position to meet any travel subsistence
costs relating to recruitment processes, or relocation and resettlement costs
for successful candidates. Should you not hear from the Department within 3
months of the closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful.
Candidates who do not comply with the above mentioned will not be
considered.
OTHER POST
POST 14/125 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRAINING AND CAPACITY BUILDING REF NO:
KZNPT 26/14
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 7 Degree or higher qualification in Financial
Accounting/Management/ Commerce Completed SAICA Trainee Accountant
Programme. A minimum 3 years’ junior management experience in Financial
Management environment. Valid Driver’s license. People with disabilities
without valid driver’s licenses will be assisted by the department to meet work
related travel obligations. Skills, Knowledge and Competencies: Knowledge of
applicable national and provincial policies and legislation is required, including:
Human resources prescripts and interpretation thereof Broad government
104
imperatives Knowledge of broad transformation issues and implementation
thereof Public Finance Management Act, Municipal Financial Management
Act, Public Service Code of Conduct, National Treasury practice notes and
guidelines, KwaZulu-Natal Procurement Policy Framework, Treasury
Regulations of 2016, Provincial Treasury policies, practice notes and
guidelines, Commercial Law principles/procedures, Public Service Regulatory
Framework, Public Sector, Local government and public entities systems,
Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing, Advanced Public
sector accounting and financial management frameworks and standards,
General Recognized Accounting Practices Principles, General Accepted
Accounting Principles, SAICA Training Regulations, SAICA Electronic
Assessment System, Training Contract Management System and Competency
Framework, Public Service Regulation, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions
Of Employment Act, Skills Development Act, MTEF and the budget process,
Public Service Act, 1994 Republic of South Africa Constitution, Planning
frameworks relevant legislation and plans, Public Service Regulation 2016,
MTEF and the budget process, PFMA, Treasury regulations, Strategic plan
framework, Annual Performance plans, Monitoring and evaluation, National
Treasury Strategic Planning, National Development Plan, Service Delivery
Framework, National and Provincial Practices Notes, Provincial Growth and
Development Plan Advanced MS office Applications Analytical, Financial
management, Leadership, Planning, Organizational, Management, Computer
literacy, Policy Analysis/development, Interpersonal relations, Presentation,
Problem-solving, Verbal communication, Project management skills, Ability to
initiate and support organizational transformation, Problem solving skills,
Change management skills, Advanced communication skills, Creativity,
Conflict management skills, People Management, Negotiation skills,
Stakeholder/ relationship management.
DUTIES : Review and update the rotational and generic plans, policies, systems, and
processes aligned to South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA)
requirements. Monitor and evaluate the assessment process, inclusive of
feedback engagements to assessments role-players and attend to non-
compliance issues. Maintain quality assurance of the SAICA Trainee
Accountant Programme in order to ensure accreditation standards are met at
all times. Monitor the implementation of frameworks and policies for the SAICA
trainee accountant programme. Provide training relating to financial
management in the Public Sector. Manage the resources of the sub-
directorate. Manage the resources of the sub- directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. D Samuels Tel No: (033) 897 4518
NOTE : Preferences: African Males, African Females and people with disabilities who
meet the requirements.
105
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 13 May 2026
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short-listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the correct references when
applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please note the
department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 14/126 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICES REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/26/166
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Nkangala District Office, Emalahleni (Witbank)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA. At least
five (5) years’ experience at senior managerial level preferably in health-related
field. A post-graduate degree / diploma in health-related field or equivalent
qualification will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge and understanding
of the District Health System, including District hospitals and Community Based
Services. Experience in accounting to communities e.g. Health committees and
Facility Boards. Knowledge and experience of financial and human resource
management applicable to the Public Service. Proven experience in the
provision and management of health services. Knowledge and understanding
of the Department of Health Mpumalanga Comprehensive Service Plan.
Familiar with the drafting and implementation of both Annual Performance and
District Health Plans. Verbal and written communication skills. Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Provide strategic support and quality assurance services in the district. Manage
and facilitate the provision of district hospital services at district level. Manage
106
and facilitate the provision of Primary Health Care (PHC) services. Render
financial management services. Render corporate support services. Manage
the implementation of the full package of district health services (including
district hospitals and sub-acute services) within the district, in line with the
Departmental Comprehensive Service Plan. Manage key partnerships within
the district, especially with the communities, local government, universities and
non-profit organizations (NGO’s). Additional to Gert Sibande: Monitor the
implementation of National Health Insurance Pilot Project throughout the
District.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/127 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1: ANAESTHESIOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/26/167
SALARY : R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Regional Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognized Foreign Professions and / or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Anaesthesiology) for foreign qualified employees.
Knowledge, skills, Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of
medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience
in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency
and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work independently and
under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Anaesthesiology and
coordinate services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to
support the aims and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards
of patient care. Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted
in a level 2/3 package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and
implementation of guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and
training programs. Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous
professional development. Provide support to hospital management towards
an efficient standard of patient care and services maintained. Comply with the
performance Management and Development System (conducting quarterly
reviews and final assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 14/128 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/APR/26/168
SALARY : R882 816 – R936 987 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Pharmacy Degree or equivalent qualification.
Current registration with South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) (2026). Core
competencies recommended. Commitment to quality development of self and
others. Computer literacy, good interpersonal skills. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Strong leadership and managerial skills.
107
DUTIES : Ensure proper selection and procurement of drugs and surgical items for the
hospital. Ensure rational use of drugs. Develop a hospital medicine formulary.
Monitor expenditure on pharmaceutical and surgical items. Perform stock
control functions. Ensure proper reconciliation of pharmaceutical accounts.
Supervise and train Pharmacy Support Staff, Interns, Community Servers and
Junior Pharmacist.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 14/129 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PN-B3): PHC REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/26/169
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 454 per annum
CENTRE : Arthurseat Clinic (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus Basic qualification
accredited with the South African Nursing Council in Terms of Government
Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing) or Equivalent qualification that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse (2026) plus a post
basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice No R212 in Primary Health Care. A
minimum of nine (09) years of appropriate / recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
At least five (05) years of the period referred to above must be appropriate /
recognizable experience in Primary Health Care after obtaining the 1 year post
basic PHC Nursing Science qualification. Experience and knowledge of the
District Health System. Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how these impact
on service delivery. Demonstrate a basic understanding of HR and finance and
practices. Knowledge of relevant legal framework such as Nursing Act, Health
Occupational and Safety Act, Patients Right Charter, Batho Pele Principles,
Operational Management Skills. Problem Solving, planning and Organizing
Skills. Expected to work under pressure and on night duty. Leadership.
Supervisory, problem-solving, conflict resolution, inter-personal and
communication and communication skills. Demonstrate an in-depth
understanding of legislation and related ethical nursing practices and how this
impact on service delivery. Computer literacy will be an added advantage (MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage and provide PHC facility supervisory in line with the PHC Supervision
Guideline. Ensure clinical nursing practice by the nursing team in the facility in
accordance with the scope and practice and nursing standard as determined
by the relevant health facility. Promote quality nursing care as directed by the
professional scope of practice and standard in accordance with the PHC
delivery package. Ensure the implementation on National Core Norms and
Standards including Six Priority Areas. Advocate for patients through ensuring
adherence to Batho Pele Principles. Coordinate community involvement and
participation. Manage and monitor effective use and maintenance of assets
and infrastructure of the facility. Monitor information management and
documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 14/130 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR GRADE 1 (PN-A5): MENTAL
HEALTH AND SUSTANCE ABUSE REF NO: MPDOH/APR/26/170
SALARY : R571 161 – R654 285 per annum
CENTRE : Mbombela Sub-district (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse. A minimum of
seven (7) years appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Good
leadership and coordination qualities. Good interpersonal communication
108
skills. Good organizing and planning skills. Report writing skills, ability to work
under pressure. Valid driver’s licence and computer literacy.
DUTIES : Coordinate and manage mental health and substance abuse programme.
Ensure the implementation of the mental health care act (Act no 17 2002) and
mental health and substance abuse policies at the sub-district level. Provide
support visits in health facilities. Assist in the management of state patients and
patient in chronical care facilities. Conduct home visit to support families and
mental health care users including state patients. Facilitates in the
establishment of community based mental health services. Ensure community
involvement and participation in forming support group and working with
stakeholders. Advocacy mental health promotion and prevention of mental
illness and substance abuse: competencies: plan and organise own work and
support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Do awareness campaign on
mental health and substance abuse? Assist in preparation of strategic plans
and operational plans for the programme liaise with other department and
ability to work with NGOs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 14/131 : LECTURER GRADE 1 (PN-D1) REF NO: MPDOH/APR/26/171
SALARY : R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Mpumalanga College of Nursing, Kabokweni
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Masters /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional nurse plus post basic
qualification in Nursing Education registered with the SANC. A minimum of four
(4) years appropriate / recognisable nursing experience after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General nursing (2026). Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Experience after registration with SANC in Nursing Education after
obtaining R118 in Nursing Education will be an added advantage. Excellent
written and verbal communication. Leadership skills, Presentation, Facilitation,
problem solving, conflict management, research, project management and
time management skills. Excellent written and verbal communication.
Leadership skills, Presentation, Facilitation, problem solving, conflict
management, research, project management and time management skills.
DUTIES : Planning, co-ordination, implementation, and facilitation of training
programmes for nurses in the health establishment. Mentoring and coaching
of nursing staff. Co-ordinate the activities of Clinical Education and Training
Unit (CETU). Facilitate the implementation of Continuous Professional
Development (CPD) Framework. Liaise between Nursing Education and
Nursing Practice (Hospital & Nursing College). Provide Skills and competency
updates and facilitation of in-service training. Monitoring, evaluation and
analysis of training programmes/activities/competencies and skills to ensure
quality health service delivery. Internal and External Collaboration on training
programmes to ensure effective capacity building. Effective Management, co-
ordination, administration, and reporting of Teaching Programmes.
Demonstrate an understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and
ethical nursing practices. Effective and efficient management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 14/132 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUDGET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/26/172
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance
/ Financial Management / Management Accounting as recognized by SAQA.
At least a minimum of three (3) years’ experience in Financial Management at
supervisory / management (Level 7/8). Proficiency in MS Excel, MS Word,
109
PowerPoint and MS Project. Generic Competencies: Planning and organising.
Problem solving and decision making. Coordination. Project management.
People management and empowerment. Team leadership. Client orientation
and customer focus. Diversity management. Communication (verbal and
written). Technical Competencies: Extensive knowledge in Financial
Management and Municipal Revenue Management. Comprehensive
knowledge and, the Division of Revenue Act (DoRA), the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Policy Development. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To manage and facilitate budgeting processes. Facilitate and manage financial
planning and budgeting processes. Compile budget estimates. Align budgets
with strategic and annual performance plans. Provide advice on budget-related
matters. Monitor expenditure against allocated budget. Confirm availability of
funds before goods and services are procured. Ensure correct SCOA
allocations are used on payment packs. Checking monthly document control
reports. Ensure all processed documents are audit compliant. Costing
operational budget requirements needs of Districts within actual expenditure
trend. Balancing of final budget allocation on BAS. Request budget /
expenditure input to quarterly erroneous allocations and authorize journal
entries. Alert District Manager’s to over and under expenditure trends. Monthly
checking of Regional Office control reports. Training of incorrect allocation
captured by sub offices. Monitoring of key cost drivers. Complete accurate and
updated report as per prescribed time frames. Provide training to finance
functionaries in the districts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 14/133 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK AND SECURITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/26/173
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in an area
of study relevant to Security Management / Law / Criminal Justice / Safety
Management as recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) years’
experience in the hospital / health environment at supervisory / managerial
(Level 7/8) dealing with security issues. Valid PSIRA Grade B Certificate. Valid
Driver’s Licence. Computer Literacy. SAMTRAC (NOSA). Knowledge of
Minimum Information Standards (MISS) and Minimum Physical Security
Standards (MPSS). Completed the following course or should complete them
within the first two years of appointment: SSA Security Management / Advisor
and Communication.
DUTIES : Develop Security Policy and Plan. Gather information and conduct Security
Threat Risk Assessment. Coordinate and ensure institution preparedness.
Prevent, manage and respond to security incidents. Secure people, core
business, information and reputation. Coordinate public and government
relations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 14/134 : ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/26/174
SALARY : R413 121 – R472 359 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus an appropriate
qualification that allows for the required registration with the Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in the relevant profession (where
applicable) (2026). Grade 1: SA Qualified employees: None after registration
with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of
employees who performed Community Service, as required in SA. Foreign
Qualified employees: One (1) year relevant experience after registration with
the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable) in respect of
employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
110
required in SA. Hospital experience and extensive knowledge in Occupational
Health and Safety will be an added advantage. Good interpersonal Skills,
written, verbal and presentation Skills. Accuracy and attention to detail. Ability
to work under pressure. Ability and willingness to travel. Good interpersonal
relationship, Leadership skill. Valid drivers’ licence.
DUTIES : Waste management (ensure proper handling and monitor of general waste and
health care risk waste). Safety health environment risk and quality (SHERQ)
management. Waste quality monitoring (collection of water samples and
analysing results). Food control (collection of food samples, inspection of food
premises and training of staff). Vector control within the facility (organize pest
control programme). Disease surveillance (from part of the outbreak response
team, investigate outbreaks and liaise with relevant stakeholders). Monitor
Environmental health indicators and provide reports to management. Pollution
control. Environmental health hygiene. Occupational hygiene surveillance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 14/135 : EMS SHIFT LEADER GRADE 3 REF NO: MPDOH/APR/26/179
SALARY : R348 636 - R390 396 per annum
CENTRE : Nelspruit EMS Station (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an Ambulance Emergency Assistant /
Emergency Care Assistant / Emergency Care Technician / Critical Care
Assistant / National Diploma in Emergency Medical Care / Bachelor of
Technology in Emergency Medical Care with three (3) years’ experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
ANT/ ECT / Paramedic / ECP. Current registration with the HPCSA (2026).
Unendorsed driver’s licence (C1) and valid professional drivers permit (PrDP)
for transporting patients. Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Previous
supervisory experience or qualification knowledge of the area including health
facilities and neighbouring EMS stations. Be able to work under pressure and
excessive hours. Basic knowledge of labour relations. Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy.
DUTIES : General office administration be responsible of all EMS activities on a shift
Human Resource Management. Analyse Patient Report Forms. Rendering of
patient management at an Intermediate Life Support level or above. Compile
management report. Maintain response times. Maintain discipline on shift.
Complete trip authorities for staff. Maintain checklist for vehicles and
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 14/136 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: SALARY ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
MPDOH/APR/26/175
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Bushbuckridge Sub-district (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years relevant experience or
Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance / Accounting / Auditing /
Administration / Public Management. Knowledge in Government Financial
Accounting. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL System. At least must have
three PERSAL courses as minimum requirement. Knowledge and
understanding of the PFMA and Treasury Regulations; knowledge and
understanding of the Basic Accounting System (BAS); good communication
(verbal and written) skills; computer literacy; problem-solving skills; planning
and organizing skills; analytical skills; liaison skills; client orientation skills;
financial management skills; presentation skills; customer care skills. Ability to
work in a team and independently. Assertiveness; and self-starter. Ability to
work under pressure and good computer literacy skills (MS Excel and MS
Word). Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to handle documents and
information with strict confidentiality. Duties include: Check and authorize
salary related transactions claims such as overtime, sessional allowances and
111
advances, control the instating of garnishee orders, Control the cancellation of
deductions such as insurance policies, check and authorize Local and Foreign
travel and subsistence claims, Control payments of salary claims, Control the
correctness of the distribution of PERSAL Item Analysis reports to Financial
Institutions and the filing of these reports on a monthly basis, Control the
clearing, reconciling and reporting on the state of salary related ledger
accounts, control leave and lump sum payments, Control the compilation of the
Monthly BAS / PERSAL interface reconciliations, Follow up and resubmit
PERSAL exceptions on BAS, Debtor control: Check and approve salary related
debt calculations and transactions to be effected on the BAS and control debt
documentation, Control the PAYE for the Department, recalculation of Income
Tax, monthly income tax reconciliation EMP201 to be submitted via SARS
eFiling and the annual tax reconciliation EMP501 to SARS to be submitted via
SARS e@syFile, Control SARS tax directives for assessment, Check issue /
reissue of IRP5 Certificates, Manage and respond to enquiries related to this
function, Supervise the work performance of subordinates by inter alia,
allocating and controlling work and maintaining office discipline. Requesting of
BAS reports when required and Filing of claim related documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 14/137 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Bushbuckridge Sub-district (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years relevant experience or
Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration / Public
Management / Office Management as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge of in
working and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public
Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Good interpersonal and
communication skills verbal and written. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles
and customer care. Willing to work under pressure. Knowledge of the
Departmental policies, prescripts and practices. Problem solving skills,
analytical thinking, maintaining discipline and conflict resolution. Organizing
skills, creativity, job information, planning, decision-making, supervision and
control. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Supervise and provide registry counter services. Supervise the handling of
incoming and correspondence. Supervise the operations and operate office
machines in relation to the registry functions. Supervise the processing and
process documents for archiving and disposal. Supervise human resources /
staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 14/138 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: CLINICAL SUPPORT PROGRAMME REF
NO: MPDOH/APR/26177
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years relevant experience or
Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration / Public
Management / Office Management as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge of
PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Computer literacy. Good interpersonal and
communication skills verbal and written. Budgeting and willing to work under
pressure. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles and customer care. Knowledge
of Departmental policies, prescripts and practices. Problem solving skills,
analytical thinking, maintaining discipline and conflict resolution. Organizing
skills.
DUTIES : Render administrative and logistic support services for the Directorate Clinical
Support Services. Ensure acquisition of goods and services as per operational
plan. Prepare invoices for payments and ensure that payments to service
providers such as but not limited to, NHLS and SANBAS services are
112
processed on time for services rendered. Assist the Directorate in preparing
and costing of operational plans, budget projections, budget adjustments and
budget pressures. Approve the Directorate requisitions on LOGIS system.
Request BAS Reports. Monitor expenditure. Consolidate reports. Assist with
the management of invoices for the laboratory and blood services as well as
Orthotics and Prosthetics. Manage Directorate, Hospital Transfusion and
Laboratory Committee, Medical Orthotics and Prosthetics and stakeholder
meetings, invitations, drafting, filling and sharing of minutes, attendance
registers and all other relevant records and documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 14/139 : PARAMEDIC GRADE 3 REF NO: MPDOH/APR/26/178
SALARY : R334 227 - R402 195 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo EMS Station (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification plus Critical Care Assistant
Certificate / National Diploma in Emergency Medical Care / Diploma in
Emergency Medical Care / Bachelor of Technology in Emergency Medical Care
/ Bachelor of Health Sciences in Emergency Medical Care. Registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Paramedic or an
Emergency Care Practitioner (2026). Unendorsed driver’s licence (C1) and
valid professional drivers permit (PrDP) for transporting patients.
DUTIES : Oversee and ensure operational readiness for emergency calls. Provide pre-
hospital emergency medical care. Render assistance to Basic Life Support and
Intermediate Life Support personnel as required. Perform Helicopter
Emergency Medical Services duties. Undertake inter-facility patient transfers.
Liaise with hospitals regarding authorization of transfers. Oversee ordering and
issuing of drugs in accordance with HPCSA Clinical Practice Guidelines.
Render Quality Assurance and Quality control in EMS. Oversee and assist with
in-service training. Provide advice on the application of best practices in
Emergency Medical Services. Market and maintain a positive public image for
Mpumalanga Emergency Medical Services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr.
Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
113
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 12 May 2026, 17:00PM
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 14/140 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (DERMATOLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 1: R1 844 151 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Dermatology. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Dermatology.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist in Dermatology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist in Dermatology (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees). Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
as Medical Specialist in Dermatology (or recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees). Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to travel within the District and Metro
Region. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to comprehensively manage
all paediatric and adult dermatology cases and intensive management of
tertiary level patients. Proven leadership abilities. Experience in supervision of
staff and students. Proven teaching abilities. Experience and effective
management of allocated resources. Proven experience in teamwork. Proven
knowledge/skills and experience in principles of service planning, organizing,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation. Proven ability to adhere to all
departmental requirements and protocols. Proven knowledge of public health
and public health policies, guidelines and related prescript to manage
resources effectively. Research experience as a primary investigator.
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive, high-quality adult and paediatric dermatological
clinical services. Clinical leadership and governance of daily clinical operations
of a dermatology and multidisciplinary team in a tertiary setting. Part of the
team at the Division of Dermatology and Groote Schuur Hospital. Provide
outreach and support to referrers and referring institutions, as required.
Conduct ward rounds/ multidisciplinary clinical meetings. Manage and
effectively/efficiently use allocated resources. Effective and efficient
administration of clinical services. Teaching (formal and informal) of
undergraduate & post graduate students. Create a learning environment for
students and junior colleagues both under- and postgraduate as required.
Clinical & Corporate Governance of Paediatric dermatology for both inpatients
and outpatients. Administration of patient management system and other
WCG health applications. Supervision of junior medical staff to ensure quality
of care and good clinical outcomes. Do appropriate clinical audits and
research within the department to stay abreast of clinical developments.
114
Participation in existing and conducting new research projects within the
department and stay abreast of clinical developments.
ENQUIRIES : Prof R Lehloenya Tel No: (021) 404-3376 or email:
rannakoe.lehloenya@uct.ac.za
NOTE : Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council.
POST 14/141 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (CHILD & ADOLESCENT PSYCHIATRY)
(24 Month Contract)
SALARY : R1 395 528 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Red Cross Hospital War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in the Psychiatry. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Inherent requirements of the job: FCPsych and MMed (Psych). Registration/
registrability as a specialist with the HPCSA. Registrars will be required to
register as post graduate students with the University of Cape Town as
applicable. according to the requirements for the discipline in the yearbook
and guidelines. All applicants must be South African citizens or permanent
residents. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Experience in and/or
demonstrated interest in working with children and their caregivers. Excellent
interpersonal and communication skills (both written and oral). Demonstrated
understanding of being mindful of cultural differences and adapting
communication and administration methods to respect diverse patients.
Strong attention to detail and ability to work both independently and
collaboratively within a team. Demonstrated commitment to ethical conduct,
patient safety, and maintaining confidentiality. Experience in general
psychiatry at a post graduate level. Direct experience in working with children
living with Autism Spectrum Disorder, Behavioural and other psychiatric
conditions. Ability and willingness to supervise medical students and rotating
registrars.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Delivery: Comprehensive child & adolescent psychiatry
clinical care and service delivery in the Western Cape. Care of inpatients and
outpatients under the direction of sub-specialist supervisors. After-hours duties
on the senior registrar roster in the Department of Child & Adolescent
Psychiatry (UCT); and responsible to the director of the registrar programme.
Supervision: Supervision of Junior Medical Staff - with respect to patient care
and clinical service-ensuring safe and high standard of clinical care. Co-
ordination of the junior medical team, nurses and allied health care team to
ensure seamless provision of service. Teaching: Contribute to and facilitate
learning of undergraduate students and psychiatric registrars attached to the
clinic and ward. Learning: Rotation through areas of Red Cross War Memorial
Children’s Hospital’s Child and Adolescent Psychiatry service in order to
acquire training in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry including completing the
required training logbook and successfully passing the College of Medicine of
South Africa Certificate examination to enable certification as a Child &
Adolescent Psychiatrist with the HPCSA. Attendance and presentation at
Academic Departmental meetings and journal clubs. Research: Involvement
with existing research projects, clinical reviews, audits and clinical trials. The
post holder is expected to conduct a research project towards producing a
Master’s (MPhil) thesis through UCT and will require proof of research in order
to enter the CMSA certificate exam. Management And Administration:
Administration and management in the Child & adolescent Psychiatry unit
including ensuring correct patient data and statistics. Efficient management of
clinical notes, including generating letters, providing feedback to referring
doctors, contributing to databases, and using designated ICD-10 codes.
ENQUIRIES : Dr P Gasela Tel No: (021) 658-5111 or email: papani.gasela@uct.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Employees in
service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar, will
be required to resign after completion of their registrarship should they not be
successful for advertised Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The Department of
115
Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with
disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be
appreciated. Specific Senior Registrar posts within the Department will be
identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Senior Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with
Stellenbosch University/ University of Cape Town according to the yearbook
and guidelines. Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. Red Cross War
Memorial Childrens Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing
of its training platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called
upon to work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and
Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's
Hospital, New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plain District Hospital, Victoria
Hospital and George Provincial Hospital. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or
before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration
status)”. Appointment as Senior Registrar will be for a maximum contract
period of 2 years. Senior Registrars will function across health facilities, as per
an agreed programme. Consideration will be given to existing employees who
are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position,
as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment
as Senior Registrar will be on contract. Candidates may be subjected to a
competency test. It will be expected of shortlisted candidates to be: available
at the venue on the time and date as determined by the Department and bring
along recently (not older than 6 months) certified copies of your Identity
Document (ID), driver’s license (if applicable for the post), qualification and/or
proof of registration at relevant statutory body. Failure to adhere to the
aforementioned may lead to his/her application being disqualified and not
further considered. Registration/ registrability as a specialist with the HPCSA
Registrars will be required to register as post graduate students with the
University of Cape Town as applicable according to the requirements for the
discipline in the yearbook and guidelines. All applicants must be South African
citizens or permanent residents.
POST 14/142 : MEDICAL OFFICER: GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS AND
GYNAECOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA
qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
116
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license;
willingness and ability to travel. Full commuted overtime is mandatory.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to render high quality obstetric and
gynaecological service and appropriate experience in Obstetrics and
Gynaecology at District level. Strong ethical principles, relevant clinical &
counselling skills, computer literacy, interpersonal skills, conflict resolution
skills and teaching & training skills at undergraduate and medical intern level.
Excellent clinical expertise and clinical governance. Team ethos, good
leadership, communication, interpersonal, analytical and problem-solving
skills.
DUTIES : Clinical service delivery in Obstetrics and Gynaecology, performed in all areas
of the hospital, including wards, outpatients, theatre and the EC, with relevant
procedural and surgical interventions. Clinical and administrative governance
with effective self-organization, stewardship of scarce resources, participation
in clinical reviews, with quality improvement, accurate medical record keeping
and compliance with human resources and other policies. Teaching, training
& research including supervision of undergraduate students, interns and junior
doctors as well as participation in the hospital academic program. Systems
management and domain specific outputs (Metro East Ecosystem) - rendering
of high-quality care in all aspects of Obstetrics and Gynaecology within the
district level package of care, in a professional & collegial manner, aligned with
the requirements & outputs of Obstetrics and Gynaecology in the Metro East
ecosystem.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Prithipal Tel No: (021) 918 1598
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with their relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)
POST 14/143 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (SURGERY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect
of foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA- qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect
of foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect
of foreign- qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the
job: A Valid driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Management of
common surgical emergencies. Good communication skills. Ability to work in
a team and with all levels of staff. Interest in developing an academic career
117
and involvement in research activities. Previous experience working within a
surgical department of a district-/secondary-/tertiary-level hospital. Completion
of Basic Life Support, FCS primary examination, Advance Trauma Life
Support, Basic Surgical Skills courses.
DUTIES : To deliver safe, cost-effective and high-quality surgical care at all times and
promote comprehensive peri-operative care of patients in the discipline of
general surgery. This would include the following roles: Pre-operative
assessment and resuscitation of surgical patients (including gynaecology,
urology & ENT) presenting to the EC and planning appropriate operative
management with guidance & supervision from senior specialists. Involvement
(supervised) in daily ward rounds, outpatient clinics & elective theatre lists
(including urology & ENT cases). Post-operative inpatient assessment & care,
with appropriate investigation & management of possible complications.
Teaching and training of community service medical officers, interns, students
and nurses providing an appropriate level of care and knowledge. Planning &
triaging (supervised) of efficient emergency & elective theatre lists, involving
communication and discussion with anaesthetic & theatre nursing staff.
Completion of medicolegal documents. Participation in research, audits and
quality improvement programs. Commuted overtime within the department of
surgery.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Plaskett Tel No: (021) 799-1200, or email:
Jeremy.Plaskett@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 14/144 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (INTERNAL MEDICINE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA
qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license;
willingness and ability to travel. Full commuted overtime is mandatory.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to render high quality in Internal
Medicine service and appropriate experience in Internal Medicine at District
level. Strong ethical principles, relevant clinical & counselling skills, computer
literacy, interpersonal skills, conflict resolution skills and teaching & training
skills at undergraduate and medical intern level. Excellent clinical expertise
and clinical governance. Team ethos, good leadership, communication,
interpersonal, analytical and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Clinical service delivery in Internal Medicine, performed in all areas of the
hospital, including wards, outpatients, theatre and the EC, with relevant
procedural and surgical interventions. Clinical and administrative governance
with effective self-organization, stewardship of scarce resources, participation
in clinical reviews, with quality improvement, accurate medical record keeping
and compliance with human resources and other policies. Teaching, training
118
& research including supervision of undergraduate students, interns and junior
doctors as well as participation in the hospital academic program. Systems
management and domain specific outputs (Metro East Ecosystem) - rendering
of high-quality care in all aspects of Internal Medicine within the district level
package of care, in a professional & collegial manner, aligned with the
requirements & outputs of Internal Medicine in the Metro East ecosystem.
ENQUIRIES : Dr MMDEV Basson Tel No: (021) 918-1205
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with their relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 14/145 : PHARMACY SUPERVISOR GRADE 1
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC as a
Pharmacist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
SAPC as a Pharmacist. Experience: A minimum of 3 years appropriate
experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the SAPC. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to perform on-call duties and work
overtime should the need arise, after hours including weekends and public
holidays. Valid Driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge
of National and Provincial Health Policies and Pharmaceutical Acts and Laws
that govern the practise of Pharmacy. Knowledge, insight and previous similar
experience in a Departmental Hospital or Clinical Setting. Proven
organisational and management skills. Information management and system
analysis skills. Sound knowledge of drug stock control, finances and legal
requirements of pharmacy management. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel).
Ability to function independently as well as part of a multidisciplinary team.
Good communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to work accurately under
pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability and
willingness to train staff.
DUTIES : Manage and ensure provision of quality pharmaceutical care, including
prescription evaluation and dispensing of medication to patients and health
workers, provision of professional advisory services to healthcare
professionals and supervise the pharmaceutical workflow in the health facility.
Ensure overall management and supervise effective drug supply management
(procurement, storage, control, distribution and destruction) medicines and
vaccines. Represent the Pharmacy Department at management and
operational meetings and support the Pharmacy Manager in the overall
management of pharmaceutical services, including acting in their absence
when required. Ensure quality provision of pharmaceutical care by
implementing and monitoring work procedures, policies and guidelines in
keeping with Batho Pele, SAPC, National Drug Policy, Standard Treatment
Guidelines and relevant national and provincial policies and guidelines.
Ensure legislative compliance with the regulations of the Pharmacy Act, PFMA
and Basic Conditions of Employment Act and the requirements of SAPC,
National and Western Cape HRM and Finance policies. Perform operational,
human resource and information management functions, including staff
supervision, training, development and participation in quality improvement
initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Rosant Tel No: (021) 402-6460
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 14/146 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
119
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Officer. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: None after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. -
Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to be on call and availability for
Emergency situations. Willing and able to work shifts. Willing and able to
participate in after-hours duties. Willing and able to work with patients with
infectious diseases. A valid driver’s license. Willingness to participate in the
commuted overtime system at Valkenberg Hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in Psychiatry or a mental health
setting. Appropriate experience in teaching, training and supervision of
students. Excellent clinical assessment and management procedures.
Excellent clinical skills in terms of consultation. Good professional attitude.
Communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive medical care to patients by diagnosing and treating
illnesses, injuries, and other health conditions. Prescribe and manage
treatment plans, including medication and therapies. Maintain accurate and
detailed patient records. Refer patients to Medical Specialist or other
healthcare providers when necessary. Complete the required CPD activities
to maintain registration with the HPCSA. Participate in training and educational
programs for healthcare professionals. Complete and submit required medical
reports and documentation for legal and administrative purposes. Uphold the
reputation and integrity of the medical profession.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Ori Tel No: (021) 826-5863
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
POST 14/147 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE)
West Coast District
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Central Clinic, Matzikama Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at
least 1 year diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment,
Treatment and Care, accredited with the SANC (R48) OR a 4 year Bachelor
Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC
in Primary Care Nursing. Registration with a Professional Council: Current
registration with the South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse.
120
Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification or a post graduate diploma in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to
travel to and support other Clinics in the Sub-district when needed.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, planning,
organisational skills, and computer literacy (MS Office). In-depth knowledge of
appropriate legislation, regulations and Departmental Policies. Knowledge of
Human Resources and Financial guidelines and protocols.
DUTIES : The effective management and execution of relevant Curative Programmes
on PHC level within the scope of practice and to be an advocate for the patient
to ensure the provision of necessary health care. The effective management
and execution of relevant Child Health service within the scope of practice and
to be an advocate for the patient to ensure the provision of necessary health
care. The effective management and execution of all Women’s Health services
within the scope of practice and to be an advocate for the patient to ensure
the provision of necessary health care. The effective management and
execution of the HAST programmes within the scope of practice and to be an
advocate for the patient to ensure the provision of necessary health care. The
effective and efficient management of the PHC facility, mobile units and
satellite Clinics – management of staff, services and infrastructure.
ENQUIRIES : Dr JE Eygelaar Tel No: (027) 213-4070
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
POST 14/148 : CHIEF AUDIOLOGIST GRADE 1
SALARY : R598 260 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Audiologist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as an Audiologist or Speech
Therapist and Audiologist. Experience: A minimum of 3 years appropriate
experience as an Audiologist after registration with the HPCSA as an
Audiologist or Speech Therapist and Audiologist. Inherent requirement of the
job: HPCSA accredited Additional Training in Cochlear Implant Mapping and
Rehabilitation. Willingness to work overtime and be involved in research
projects at the institution. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Successful
completion of the HPCSA-accredited Short Course in Cochlear Implant
Mapping and Rehabilitation. Appropriate experience as an audiologist
rendering services of Cochlear Implant Mapping and Rehabilitation.
Competency in the assessment and management of patients (adults, children
and babies) with a hearing loss, in particular severe to profound sensorineural
hearing loss. Competency in assessment, rehabilitation and mapping of
cochlear implant patients of all ages. Good management, administrative,
supervisory, problem-solving, conflict resolution, interpersonal, organisational
and communication skills. Competent in Diagnostic audiology, hearing aid
fitting and rehabilitation of children and adults with hearing loss. Interest in
performing / cooperating in research projects within the Cochlear Implant
Programme. Ability to mentor and teach junior staff members and post-
graduate students.
DUTIES : Manage a clinical caseload within the Cochlear Implant Unit, which includes
Assessment and management of patients of all ages for cochlear implant
candidacy, intra-operative and post-operative testing of implant function,
programming (mapping) and rehabilitation of cochlear implant patients. Co-
operate, train, consult and collaborate with outside agencies and/or
professionals. Assist with the management of physical, financial and human
resources in the Cochlear Implant Unit and co-ordination of all administrative
activities regarding the patients, clinical area and unit. Supervise staff and train
under- and post-graduate Audiology students. Undertake and participate in
appropriate research and investigations in area of work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Perold Tel No: (021) 938-4824 / 5086
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
121
POST 14/149 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL) (WARD 5
AND WARD 6)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R571 161 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (RI74) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. OR
A 3-year Diploma in Nursing (RI71) that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) AS A General Nurse. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 7 years appropriate / recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Willingness to work weekends, overtime, Public Holidays and Night Duty.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, leadership,
communication skills, strong sense of responsibility. The ability to function
independently in a multidisciplinary team and the ability to direct the team to
ensure good nursing care. Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of nursing and
public service legislation and knowledge of Human Resource and financial
policies. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide leadership, management, governance and supervision of nursing
services. Ensure the provision of optimal, holistic nursing care within the
parameters of professional, legal and ethical practices. Effectively manage
human and financial resources with emphasis on compliance of policies,
practice and protocols. Ensure effective adherence to quality improvement
strategies in the execution of quality nursing care and clinical governance.
Provide effective management support to nursing services, hospital
management including after-hours coverage and night duty.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Njongonkulu Tel No: (021) 503-5077
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 14/150 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1: GENERAL (FAMILY
MEDICINE)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health District
SALARY : R571 161 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse OR a 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse OR A
3-year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a General Nurse. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognizable experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work rotational shifts, including day and
night duty, as well as weekends and public holidays, in accordance with
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function
independently in a multi-disciplinary team and the ability to direct the team to
ensure quality nursing care. Ability to understand and follow policies,
procedures, and protocols as Operational Manager Nursing (General: Family
medicine). Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of nursing and public service
legislation and human resource and financial policies. Computer literacy
(Microsoft Office).
DUTIES : Supervise and ensure the provision of effective and efficient patient care
through the identification of nursing care needs, the planning and
implementation of nursing care and the guidance of nursing & other personnel
Bed Management. Manage human, material and physical resources efficiently
and effectively. Maintain & promote professional growth/ethical standards and
development of self and others. Display the core values of the Department of
health WCG in the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LA Campbell Tel No: (044) 802-4371
122
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 14/151 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R496 668 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Appropriate qualification in Social Work that
allows for registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professionals (SACSSP) as a Social Worker. Registration with a Professional
Council: Registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professions (SACSSP) as Social Worker. Experience: A minimum of 7 years’
appropriate experience in social worker after registration as Social Worker with
SACSSP. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB driver license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (Microsoft). Robust and
functional knowledge of social work, mental health, hospital clinical systems
and relevant legislative frameworks. Ability to supervise, guide and support a
team of social workers, within a wider multi-disciplinary team. Excellent
communication, task prioritization, record keeping and crisis intervention skills.
CLINICOM literacy will be an advantage.
DUTIES : Clinical service delivery in the form of direct patient consultations, crisis
intervention, collaboration around complex cases and contribution to the multi-
disciplinary team. Clinical and administrative governance including social work
service coordination, performance management, team support & oversight,
policy & procedure coordination, departmental administration and quality
assurance. Teaching, training & research activities, including mentorship,
professional development and participation in academic program. Systems
management and discipline specific outputs including effective delivery of
holistic social work service using a patient-centered & culturally sensitive
approach, effective collaboration with internal & external stakeholders and
effective multidisciplinary communication.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S le Roux Tel No: (021) 918-1990
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 14/152 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Alma CDC, Mossel Bay Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at
least 1 year diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment,
Treatment and Care, accredited with the SANC (R48) OR A 4-year bachelor's
degree in nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC
in Primary Care Nursing. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A Minimum of
4 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/ recognisable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license and willingness to travel. Willingness to work overtime and assist at
other clinics, mobiles, satellites within the Sub District, when there is a need.
Willingness to drive a mobile clinic vehicle. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
NIMART training or experience. Good communication skills verbal and written.
Problem solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills. Basic computer
skills in (i.e. MS Word, Excel, Outlook).
DUTIES : Assist with the management of the Burden of disease according to the
comprehensive health programmes. Quality of service Plan and implement
Health Promotion and Prevention activities in facility and Community. Link to
the community structures and NPO’s. Collect data and submit reports. Provide
123
PHC services to the surrounding communities. Assist with the managing of
Human Resources, Finance, SCM, Strategy and Health support, Infrastructure
and equipment management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Lamprecht Tel No: (044) 604 6106
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
will be subjected to a practical/ oral assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Curative Skills in Clinical Nursing Science: Health
Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited with the SANC (R48) or post
graduate diploma in Primary Care Nursing accredited with the SANC (R635).
POST 14/153 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT AND
GOVERNANCE
Directorate: Health Intelligence
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Information Management. Experience: Appropriate experience in
health information management. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to travel and work away from home and
work overtime when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Advanced
computer skills in Microsoft Office 365. Analytical, strategic and conceptual
thinking skills including numeracy, problem solving, business analysis. Good
understanding of information management, data governance, health systems,
epidemiological concepts and monitoring and evaluation. Project and staff
management skills with an ability to perform confidently in a complex
environment under pressure. Collaboration and interpersonal skills including
excellent communication, writing and relationship management skills.
Technical and system knowledge: Excellent computer skills (MS Office 365)
with knowledge of Western Cape Government Health and Wellness electronic
systems. Advanced Excel and PowerBI skills will be an advantage.
Administrative and policy skills: Office admin, human resource management
knowledge and skills with well-developed leadership abilities.
DUTIES : Develop an operational plan aligned with the strategic plan and department
imperatives and ensure implementation of it through project management.
Ensure the effective development, implementation and management of
national and provincial information policies and systems through standardized
data collection, stakeholder engagement, cross-team collaboration, and the
expansion of automation and digitization. Ensure departmental data meets
quality criteria through standardized processes, timely submission, and robust
audit support, including conducting internal audits, monitoring compliance,
compiling feedback reports, training, supporting facilities and compliance
teams during audits, and developing and implementing effective data quality
tools and procedures. Provide strategic decision support through accurate and
timely data, information, knowledge, performance monitoring and evaluation,
analysis reporting. Supervise, manage, lead and upskill a cohesive team/unit
according to the relevant policies and procedures integrated with the rest of
the directorate/s and department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Brinkmann Tel No: (021) 483-8046 or email:
Samantha.Brinkmann@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical and competency assessment.
POST 14/154 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPORT SERVICES (PUBLIC PRIVATE
INITIATIVES)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Clinical Service Improvement (Public Private Initiatives)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in administration and
coordination of public private sector initiatives or partnerships with
stakeholders or third parties as well as project management. Inherent
124
requirement of the job: Advanced computer proficiency in MS Word, Excel and
MS Office. Valid Driver’s license. Willingness to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Any legal, commercial and financial knowledge as it relates
to public sector and private sector interventions or services. Knowledge of
public sector supply chain and finance regulations/prescripts. Numeracy,
Literacy, Analytical, logical and strategic thinking skills. Sound language
verbal, written and Interpersonal Communication skills. Excellent writing,
reporting, research and presentation skills. Administration, Financial
Management, Human Resource Management and Change Management
skills. Ability to work co-operatively with colleagues and stakeholders at all
levels of authority but also to work independently. Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Lead and coordinate the development, implementation, monitoring and quality
assurance of PPIs and PPPs to ensure strategic alignment, effective
stakeholder engagement and timely, high quality project delivery. Coordinate
and compile accurate, requirements aligned departmental reports while
providing technical inputs and supporting the Deputy Director with briefings,
minutes, presentations and other technical documents. Identify and coordinate
staff development initiatives, provide productivity enhancing tools and
systems, and monitor development plans to strengthen workflow efficiency
and overall component performance. Support the development and review of
policies, guidelines, protocols and tools by contributing technical expertise,
strengthening resource forecasting and prioritisation mechanisms, and
ensuring alignment with best practice and legislative requirements. Conduct
situational analyses, monitor system performance and resource trends, and
synthesise evidence to inform planning, prioritisation and decision making
within the Department and Directorate. Provide high quality technical,
research and administrative support on emerging or ad hoc issues, including
investigations, evidence summaries and project start-ups, ensuring timely and
accurate delivery despite short turnaround times.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Stemele Tel No: (021) 815-8622
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may undergo a Competency Based Assessment. Candidates will be subjected
to a written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 14/155 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT (HUMAN RESOURCES AND LABOUR RELATIONS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource
Administration and PERSAL. Appropriate experience in Labour Relations
within the Public Service context. Appropriate supervisory experience.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and implementation of Labor Relations
standards and prescripts. Understanding of relevant legislation pertaining to
Labor Relations. Sound practice, knowledge and experience of the PERSAL
system. Knowledge of the Public Service Act and resolution, various OSD’s,
Human Resource Policies, Resolutions and Agreements. Ability to ensure
compliance in the application of human resource policies and practices. Ability
to analyse data to compile management reports, detailing relevant trend
analysis. Proficient in MS Office (Word. Excel and PowerPoint). Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Willingness to perform overtime
when required.
DUTIES : Render sound labour relations practices at institutional level. Administer
grievance and disciplinary cases and maintain a database to generate monthly
reports for labour relations. Render a service to the Institutional Management
and Labor Committee (IMLC). Consult and advise management and Line
management on all labour relations policies, procedures and interventions.
Manage and supervise the general staff office including the development of
Human Resource Officials on all aspects (SPMS, Discipline, training of staff).
Adhere and correct application to all transversal personnel practices, policies
and procedures. including all employment practices. Ensure Human Resource
compliance and rectification of Auditor-General reports, Internal Auditors
reports, as well as Human Resource Management compliance reports.
Render a support and advisory service with regards to Personnel
Administration and Human Resource Management as well as monitoring
125
compliance to Human Resources policies. Ensure compliance with human
resource practices, policies, resolutions and collective agreements.
Responsible for HR related statistics and the effective usage of PERSAL
system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Adams Tel No: (021) 503-5034
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 14/156 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
(COMPLIANCE)
Directorate: Information Management and Governance (Health Intelligence)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (DICU)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate three-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate knowledge and experience in
Health Information Management and Data Governance. Inherent requirement
of the job: Valid driver's license (Code B) and ability to drive a light motor
vehicle on a public road. Willingness to travel and overnight within the Western
Cape when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Highly developed
understanding and knowledge of data and information management, data
governance and related policies, processes and standard operating
procedures. Advanced computer literacy especially in MS Office with good
numerical and analytical skills to support compilation, interpretation and
analysis of data. Knowledge of the information systems utilised by the
WCDHW e.g. Sinjani, DHIS, CLINICOM, PHCIS, Ideal Facility, Business
Intelligence, SPV, TIER.net, EDR.web. Excellent self-management and
people management skills together with communication, training and report
writing skills.
DUTIES : Identification of data quality and audit risks and subsequent prioritisation. Plan,
coordinate and conduct assessments/audits to provide assurance on data
quality and compliance with provincial and national policy and standard
operating procedures. Conduct root cause analysis of findings and develop,
implement and monitor remedial action plans and corrective measures,
including coordinating and conducting relevant training. Develop, generate
and communicate findings and performance and progress reports for
management and stakeholders. Support internal and external audit processes
by preparing the facilities and liaising with the auditor. Assist with appropriate
assessment tool development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Diedericks at (067) 026 1515
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 14/157 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A (ELECTRICAL)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 329 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in
Electrical Artisanship. Experience: 5 years’ experience as an Artisan after
obtaining the trade test certificate. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid
wiremen’s license. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Physically fit to perform
duties. Must be available for standby duties after hours, on weekends and
public holidays, and willingness to work overtime when required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Conversant with the requirements of the
Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act. (Act 85). Ability to fault-
find and repair down to component level. Ability to work under pressure and
independently with good report-writing skills, conflict management and good
interpersonal skills, as well as excellent verbal and written communication
skills. Practical experience in maintaining and repairing refrigeration systems,
electrical motors & equipment, CCTV cameras, access control, and electric
fencing & all electrical components in a hospital or institutional environment.
DUTIES : Control over equipment, tools, plant and materials and provide in service
training to subordinates. Do quality assurance on all maintenance and repair
work performed, keep registers of all work done and maintain control of job
cards. Compile and submit reports as required and provide input on the
operational plan of the workshop. Performance manage and supervise the
workshop staff, perform related administrative duties and mentor technical
staff in the application of new technologies and procedures. Assist the Chief
Artisan in ordering, procurement and control of maintenance materials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Petersen Tel No: (021) 503-5036
126
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 14/158 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES (CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute (OFPI), Forensic Pathology Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or Equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain, Asset Management and
Contract Management. Appropriate experience in LOGIS, SEB, CSD & EPS
(Electronic Procurement System). Inherent requirement of the job: A Valid
(Code B/EB) driver's license. Willingness to work overtime duties.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge in BAS and ECM (Electronic
Content Management). Appropriate Finance knowledge. Ability to
communicate clearly and discreetly in person and in writing. Above-average
computer and software literacy. Ability to work independently and in a team.
Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines. Ability to achieve and
maintain good interpersonal and working relations with staff and clients, with
knowledge of Batho Pele. Appropriate people and planning skills. Ability to
interpret service level agreements. Ability to interpret and apply policies. Good
working knowledge of relevant legislation, regulations and policies. Ability to
teach and train subordinates. Appropriate knowledge of Human Resources
and Labour Relations.
DUTIES : Effective supervision of subordinates. Effective co-ordination of Supply Chain
Management processes and procurement. Effective co-ordination of Finance
processes. Effective control of Assets and Stores. Ensure effective and
efficient administrative HR support at the Forensic Pathology Laboratory.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TG Cornelius, email: Tracey.Cornelius@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The applicants
will be subjected to an interview and competency test. Candidates will be
subjected to security clearance prior to appointment. Shortlisted candidates
may be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 14/159 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: MALE
AND FEMALE PSYCHIATRY WARD)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital, Overstrand Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse OR A- 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration
as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration
as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public
holidays and weekends. Relieve and rotate in all areas within the Hospital.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (written and
verbal). Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part of a multi-
disciplinary team. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the
Department of Health Western Cape. Be able to work independently and in a
multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing care
plans, laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health care. Implement
standards, practices, criteria, and indicators for quality assurance. Utilize
human, material, and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Effective
Information Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Spandeel Tel No: (028) 312-1166
127
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 14/160 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: PALLIATIVE CARE)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Otto Du Plessis Hospital, Cape Agulhas Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse OR- A 4-year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse OR A
3-year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the SANC as a
General Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness
to work within the Sub-district. Willingness to undergo Palliative Care training.
DUTIES : Facilitate the provision of holistic institutional nursing care to patients in an
environment which promotes core values and human dignity. Ensure that
quality of nursing care is facilitated cost effectively, efficiently and equitable
whilst at the same time ensuring compliance to the requirements of
professional and ethical practices. Ensure realisation of strategic goals and
objectives of the Palliative unit with regards to inpatient and outpatient care.
Ensure supportive role from ward staff i.r.o end of life patients, receiving and
referrals of patients, performing patient assessments and ensuring patients
are appropriately managed and monitored by mentoring and guiding ward staff
appropriately. -Ensure that effective health promotion and comprehensive
health care are in place for treatment of patients and ensure the effective
utilisation of resources to provide quality and sustainable patient care.
Coordination of relevant monthly meetings, liaison and communication with
multi-disciplinary teams, effective utilisation of training and research
opportunities and effective administrative management of reporting on
Palliative care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Adams Tel No: (028) 424-1167
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).”
POST 14/161 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL) (TRAINING RELIEF:
ICU, HIGHCARE AND RENAL)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health District
(Contract until 31 January 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
(Annual salary plus 37% in lieu of service benefits)
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
128
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse OR a 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse OR a
3 year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) AS A General Nurse. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration
as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration
as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to perform duties at irregular hours,
including night duty, overtime, stand-by. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of the nursing processes and procedures as outlined in Nursing
Act and SANC regulations. Professionalism, good Interpersonal
communication skills, leadership skills and flexibility. Skills to plan, organize &
coordinate the service by analysing, problem solving and decision making.
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs,
the planning and implementation of nursing care and the education of nursing
and other personnel. Render advanced clinical nursing care and support
clinical staff with surgical and medical procedures. Utilize human, material and
physical resources efficiently and effectively. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self- development. Display of core values of the
Department of Health WCG in the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede Tel No: (044) 802-4352
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
POST 14/162 : WORKS INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL & EQUIPMENT SAFETY AND
HEALTH CARE WASTE OFFICER
Directorate: Facilities Management (Sub-directorate: Occupational and
Equipment Safety)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or
equivalent, or an N3 and a passed trade test in the building environment, or
Registration as an Engineering Technician. Experience: Appropriate
experience in applying legislation and policies related to Occupational Health
and Safety, Health Care Waste Management. Inherent requirements of the job:
A valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Project
Management, Research and support in Policy Development. Practical
knowledge of relevant legislation and policies related to Occupational Health
and Safety and Health Care Waste Management. Good organizational,
interpersonal, leadership, conflict resolution and problem-solving skills.
Attention to detail and the ability to work independently. Computer literacy and
thorough knowledge of computer systems (Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
Outlook). People management skills. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Ensure WCDHW facilities comply with relevant Occupational Health and
Safety and Health Care Waste Management requirements, legislation, codes
of practice, standards and norms. Investigate, report on and assist with
resolving Occupational Health and Safety and Health Care Waste incidents at
facilities. Manage and facilitate Occupational Health and Safety and Health
Care Waste Management training at WCGH facilities. Promote Occupational
Health and Safety and Health Care Waste awareness at WCDH facilities.
Maintain a Health Care Waste Management database and develop reports.
Support in development of policies, standard operating procedures, norms and
129
standards. Conducting site visits and inspections. Compilation of reports and
report writing. Collating information and maintaining databases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Thomas Tel No: (021) 918-1233
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 14/163 : PHARMACY ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (POST-BASIC)
Directorate: Information Management
SALARY : Grade 1: R275 340 per annum
Grade 2: R318 666 per annum
Grade 3: R343 761 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC). Pharmacist Assistant qualification
that allows registration with SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic).Registration with a professional council: Registration with the South
African Pharmacy Council as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post- Basic)
(Institutional) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic). Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic).
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist
Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the
SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience as
Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic)
with the SAPC. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): A high level of computer literacy.
Appropriate experience in Health Information Systems. Experienced in system
support to be able to manage the Medicine Management systems used in the
province. Experience in training end users Knowledge of the Regulations
concerning pharmaceuticals and supply-chain management. Excellent
communication skills, to manage the change management process within the
organisation to achieve full acceptance of the system, with all users and
relative parties. Good people management skills and a positive attitude
towards working co-operatively with colleagues and stakeholders at all levels
of authority.
DUTIES : Client services: Support and liaise with facilities using the Medicine
Management Systems in the province. Management of all change control
processes. Provide end user training in the use of the pharmacy system.
Provide operational support at the facility. System maintenance: Maintenance
of master files to ensure that the system complies with current regulations.
Ensure effective communication regarding Pharmacy requirements such as
data availability and data quality with Pharmacy role players, including end
users and managers. Assist with compiling and maintaining system user
manuals and procedures. Assist with the implementation and support of the
Medicine Management System at Health facilities. Provide ad-hoc support to
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Blockman at (072) 321-2015 or Mr J Maharaj Tel No: (021) 938-6513
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
candidates will be required to undergo competency assessments/proficiency
tests. “Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time
for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
POST 14/164 : PERSONNEL OFFICER (EMPLOYEE BENEFITS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Northern/Tygerberg Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or Equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience of PERSAL and relevant functions.
Appropriate experience of Salary systems and Personnel management.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work after hours. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of PERSAL. Computer literate in MS Office
(Excel, Word and Power point) and MS Outlook. Knowledge of the People
Management prescripts and Regulations and basic understanding of Human
130
Resource Management. Good interpersonal, communication and
organizational skills and the ability to function under pressure and meet
deadlines.
DUTIES : Responsible for all Human Resource related functions within the HR
Department. Handle appointments, service terminations, salary
administration, PILIR, WCA and general service conditions, audit of leave and
personnel files, debt management, commuted overtime, pension
administration, housing, transfers and MMS structuring. Responsible for
capturing transactions on PERSAL. Handle all personnel enquiries and
correspondence (written and verbal) and maintain registers and filing system.
Effective support to supervisors, management and members of the public with
regards to Human Resource and Personnel matters. Responsible for Audit
reports (COT) overtime, housing, rental, leave and ORW) and feedback to
supervisor pertaining Audit finds.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Martin Tel No: (021) 815-8573
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 14/165 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN (SCM) (ASSETS)
Overberg District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital, Overstrand Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focus on the key
performance areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply
Chain Management environment, LOGIS and the EPS. Inherent requirement
of the job: Valid (B/C1/EB) driver’s license. Ability to work in a physically
demanding environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the
LOGIS System, Asset Management functions and functional experience in
obtaining quotations on an electronic purchasing system (EPS). Computer
literacy (MS Excel and Word). Good communication skills.
DUTIES : Perform tasks related to procurement administration, such as inviting quotes
on EPS, placing of orders, preparing quotes for Quotation Committee and
follow-up with suppliers. Asset Management to be performed in the Overstrand
Sub-district which includes proper management of assets pertaining to annual
asset count, updating asset register, disposals, capturing relevant
documentation on LOGIS and keeping updated filling of all relevant
documentation. Monthly BAS and LOGIS reconciliation reporting. Receiving
services and preparing batches for payment. Ensure compliance with all
relevant laws and prescripts related to the Supply Chain. Handle all telephone
and written queries from relevant suppliers and end users.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CE Langley Tel No: (028) 312-1166
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates could be subjected to a practical test.
POST 14/166 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: (INCOME/ADMISSIONS) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Grade 12/Senior Certificate. Experience:
Appropriate experience of Patient Admissions including the CLINICOM
System. Inherent requirements of the job: Prepared to work 12-hour shifts
(which include night duty, weekends and Public holidays) and work overtime
on short notice. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy. Good
interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to accept accountability and
responsibility and to work independently and unsupervised.
DUTIES : Registration and capturing of patient information on CLINICOM.
Recordkeeping, filing, retrieving, tracing of folders, destruction and opening
folders. Assessing of patients according to the means test (income). Cash
Management. Switchboard and patient enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Van Staden Tel No: (021) 571-8040
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
131
POST 14/167 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Information Management. Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid driver’s license (Code B/EB). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Access). Knowledge and experience in departmental systems, i.e., Health
Information Systems i.e. PHCIS, Clinicom, Ideal clinic, Sinjani etc. Understand
the Ditcom process and must have training skills.
DUTIES : Data collection, collation, capturing and reporting. Perform administrative role
as a member of the Information Management team. Office administration
(filing, attending meetings, typing minutes, etc). Assist with data management
quality monitoring and facility support visits. Interpret and analyse data trends
and maintain data retrieval efficiency. Participate in health information co-
ordinating activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Lewela Tel No: (021) 684-1418
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
will be subjected to a written/practical, and oral assessment.
POST 14/168 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or
equivalent. Experience: Appropriate experience in Recruitment and Selection.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic understanding of PM Recruitment
and Selection, Employment contracts, Employment equity and PERMIS.
Ability to maintain confidentiality. Knowledge of PERSAL. Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Office Outlook).
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and run Recruitment and selection process. Assist with
compilation and placement of Advertisements. Perform general office
administration duties pertaining to personnel administration within Recruitment
and Selection. Assist with the SPMS process. Accurate record keeping as well
as attending to enquires/ correspondence.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Share Tel No: (021) 658-5405
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 14/169 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT SERVICES (PUBLIC PRIVATE
INITIATIVES)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Clinical Service Improvement (Public Private Initiatives)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid
(code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to travel when required for work
purposes. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Analytical, logical and strategic
thinking skills. Excellent writing and reporting. Computer proficiency in MS
Excel, MS Word, and MS Office. MS Office training at an intermediate level
and completion of Logis courses. Analytical and logical thinking. Ability to work
under pressure. Ability to work both co-operatively with stakeholders and
independently.
DUTIES : Responsible for identifying and documenting projects, conducting background
research, and drafting project scopes and timelines to ensure objectives are
achieved within defined project plan deadlines. Compile and analyse data
through various Excel-based reports (Goods and Services, Biometric, GMT,
and City of Cape Town reports) and present findings through PowerPoint
presentations and graphical summaries. Facilitate recruitment and training
processes by testing candidates, compiling required reports (PSETA QMR,
departmental quarterly and expenditure reports), coordinating training
arrangements, and supporting staff development. -Provide administrative and
procurement support to management, maintain databases, validate data, and
generate reports required for monitoring and decision-making processes. -
Support additional projects, research, and administrative tasks aligned with
the objectives of the Business Development Unit within agreed timelines.
132
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Stemele Tel No: (021) 815-8622
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 14/170 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (WARD 9 AND WARD 99) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Staff Nurse. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience:
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration at SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, and public holidays
to meet the operational requirements. Must be prepared to assist in all
departments according to operational requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Effective communication skills and interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of nursing processes & procedures as outlined in Nursing, Health
related & Public service legislation, regulations & policies. Function within the
team and facilitate on the level of the post.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care. Provide basic clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms KP Tukutezi Tel No: (021) 370-1274
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time
for registration in a specific category with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 14/171 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Barrydale Clinic (X1 Post), Suurbraak Clinic (X1 Post), Swellendam Sub-
district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration at SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB driver’s license and willingness to travel. Willingness to support when
necessary and to work at other clinics in the Sub-District as well as on Mobile
Clinic. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic computer skills in MS Word
and Outlook. Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part of a
multi-disciplinary team. Good communication, interpersonal relationships,
exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills. Knowledge of relevant
nursing legislation, policies and protocols of the Department of Health and
Wellness, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide basic clinical nursing care. Development and implementation of basic
patient care plans. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GJ Van der Westhuizen Tel No: (028) 514-8400
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
133
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status.
POST 14/172 : TELKOM OPERATOR
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: General Education and Training
Certificate (GETC) /grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in
operating an electronic switchboard/PABX, a messaging and paging system.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night shifts,
weekends and public holidays. Work overtime when required by operational
needs. Physically able to hear and speak clearly. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to operate an electronic switchboard. Excellent
listening skills and telephone etiquette. Computer literacy in Microsoft
Packages (Word, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Handle all outgoing and incoming calls. Manage switchboard, answer
telephonic queries and deliver messages. Ensure that switchboard and
telephone equipment is in working order. Handling of PABX and VOIP
systems. Monitor, place and record all cellular, national and international calls
made. Keep records of speed dial number. Send and receive calls via the 2-
way radio. Broadcast staff and information via broadcast system. Report all
faults to Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Fredericks Tel No: (021) 658-5111
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 14/173 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R181 230 per annum
Grade 2: R211 401 per annum
Grade 3: R249 141 per annum
CENTRE : Bongolethu Clinic, Oudtshoorn Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience
in nursing after registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work after hours when needed. Willingness to assist at
other clinics in the Sub-district when needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Self- discipline and motivation.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living which include patient hygiene,
nutritional status, mobility and elimination needs. Provide elementary clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional growth,
ethical standards and self-development. Record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CW Lucas Tel No: (044) 274 -1936
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 14/174 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R181 230 per annum
Grade 2: R211 401 per annum
Grade 3: R249 141 per annum
134
CENTRE : Murraysburg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1:
None Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience
in nursing after registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, including weekends, public holidays, night shifts
and overtime. Willingness to rotate to other wards in the hospital and to assist
at the Murraysburg Clinic when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good communication skills. Self- discipline and motivation.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living which include patient hygiene,
nutritional status, mobility and elimination needs. Provide elementary clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional growth,
ethical standards and self-development. Record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms FK Fass Tel No: (049) 844 - 0021/53
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. -This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
in a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 14/175 : HOUSEHOLD AID (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in cleaning hospital or health environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to lift/move heavy objects and working at
heights requiring the use of a stepladder. Willingness to work shifts, public
holidays, weekends, overtime and night duty. Relief in other departments when
necessary. Willingness to undergo formal and informal training. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Infection Control and Occupational Health
and Safety. Good interpersonal skills with the rest of the multi-disciplinary team
as well as the public. Ability to read, speak and write. Good communication
skills. Ability to work in a team environment and independently.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning duties i.e. sweeping, dusting, emptying bins daily,
mopping, scrubbing and polishing, cleaning windows, deep cleaning of toilets,
general refuse and medical waste handling and maintenance of general
neatness and hygiene (adhere to OSH and IPC policies). Perform patients and
parents’ meal serving and cleaning of crockery and cutlery (according to
HACCP principles and food service unit policies). Effective use of machinery,
maintenance and safekeeping of consumables and equipment. Attend in-
service training and render support to the supervisor with regards to general
housekeeping duties. Handling of linen (soiled lined, dirty lined, clean linen,
counting of linen, packing linen room, etc.) Assist in performing ad-hoc duties
within the hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Chenga Tel No: (021) 658-5436 / Ms M Fredericks Tel No: (021) 658-
5111
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 14/176 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SESSIONAL) (CLINICAL
OBSTETRICS) (16 HOURS PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(3 Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R671 per hour
Grade 2: R766 per hour
Grade 3: R887 per hour
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Registration with a
Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
135
Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as a Medical Specialist in
Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to manage all Obstetrics and Gynaecology cases
competently. Ability to teach and supervise obstetric surgical procedures and
assist in the management of obstetric surgical complications. Proven
leadership abilities and experience in supervision of staff. Proven knowledge
of public health policies, guidelines and related prescript to manage resources
effectively. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and cost-effective obstetric service and render quality
patient care. Conduct ward rounds and oversee the daily operations of the
obstetric department. Assist with the teaching and training of surgical skills in
the obstetric theatre and provide surgical cover to assist with surgical
complications when required. Ensure effective and efficient use of resources.
Adhere to requirements for all people management matters. Create a learning
environment for junior staff and students (under and postgraduate). Assist in
perinatal audit, as well as in the investigation and management of adverse
incidents, patient complaints, and medicolegal cases as required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr TA Campbell Tel No: (021) 659-4924
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
POST 14/177 : CLEANER (SESSIONAL) (X3 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
(Contract until 31 March 2029)
SALARY : R94.86 per hour
CENTRE : Breederivier Clinic (X2 Posts)
Nduli Clinic (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience:
Appropriate experience as a Cleaner in a health environment. Inherent
requirement of the job: Ability to lift/move heavy equipment and supplies, and
work at heights requiring the use of a stepladder. The ability to do physical
tasks, operate heavy-duty cleaning and household equipment. Rotate in
different clinics according to operational needs and requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work effectively in a team,
independently and unsupervised, to accept accountability and responsibility.
Ability to handle conflict and the ability to work under pressure. Ability to
operate machinery and equipment.
DUTIES : Responsible for cleaning, including sweeping, dusting, mopping, scrubbing,
polishing, refuse removal, cleaning of garbage bins daily, toilets, sluices and
drains, cleaning of windows and walls in the clinic. Ensure that cleaning
equipment is clean after usage and securely stored. Render assistance to the
supervisor with general housekeeping duties such as control of cleaning and
household equipment, care of linen, and serving of patients. Adhere to safety
measures when handling waste. Attend in-service training appropriate to
service delivery
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Moses Tel No: (023) 316-9600
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
136