PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 24 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 10 JULY 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weeskly basis and contains the
advertisements of vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the
Department is not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an
advertisement must be addressed to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the
department in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST
PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration
must not be approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the
applicable closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies.
Potential candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies
and attending where applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998
should be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote
representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding
the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : SOUTH AFRICAN POLICE SERVICE: DIVISION:
PROTECTION AND SECURITY SERVICES: Kindly note that the following
post was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026,
The post title has been amended as follows: Post title: Human Resource Clerk
Supervisor (Level 07) Post reference number: PSS HRM08/26 and previously
was advertised as Financial Clerk Supervisor with Ref No: PSS HRM08/26
DIVISION: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT: Kindly note that email address
divscm:recruitment@saps.gov.za as indicated in the Public Service Vacancy
Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026 is for internal users. Please amend the external
email address as follow divscm.recruitment@saps.gov.za
PROTECTION AND SECURITY SERVICES: Kindly note that the following 1
post were advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026,
The post description was advertised as Financial Clerk Supervisor (Level 07)
Ref No: PSS HRM08/26 have been amended as follows (1) Human Resource
Clerk Supervisor (Level 07) with Ref No: PSS HRM08/26; the center is Human
Resource Management & Development: Northwest, Mafikeng
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: EASTERN CAPE: COOPERATIVE
GOVERNANCE & TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS: Kindly note that the following
post was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 22 dated 26 June 2026.
The Requirement is amended as follows: (1) General Worker: Traditional
Leadership Instutional Support: Amampondomise Kingship with Ref No:
COGTA 12/06/2026, Centre: Qumbu. Enquiries: Ms N. Gemby at (072 657
6518). e-Recruitment Enquiries: recruitment@eccogta.gov.za. NB: No Code 8
Driver’s license is required. The closing date remains the 10 July 2026.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO: OFFICE OF THE PREMIER:
Kindly note that the two (2) posts of Registry Clerk: General Records under the
Directorate: Records and Facilities Management was advertised in Public
Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026. The salary notch was
incorrect and is amended as follows: Post: Registry Clerk: General Records
(2x posts) Ref. No: OTP: 05 / 26 / 17, Directorate: Records and Facilities
Management Services (Work Environment), Salary Notch: R237 453 per
annum (Level 05), Salary Scale: R237 453 – R279 708 per annum. Centre:
Polokwane. The closing date for this post only is extended to 24 July 2026.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA: SOUTH AFRICAN
POLICE SERVICE: Kindly note that the following 16 were advertised in Public
Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026, The requirements have been
amended as follows: Requirements: No experience is required. Post: Human
Resource Clerk (Level 05) (X16 Posts): Ref No: MP 26/06/2026, Ref No: MP
27/06/2026, Ref No: MP 28/06/2026, Ref No: MP 29/06/2026, Ref No: MP
30/06/2026/ Ref No: MP 31/06/2026, Ref No: MP 32/06/2026, Ref No: MP
33/06/2026, Ref No: MP 34/06/2026, Ref No: MP 35/06/2026, Ref No: MP
36/06/2026, Ref No: MP 37/06/2026, Ref No: MP 38/06/2026, Ref No: MP
39/06/2026.
Kindly note that the following 15 posts were advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026, The requirements have been
amended as follows: Requirements: No experience is required. Post:
Secretary (Level 05) (X15 Posts): Ref No: MP 40/06/2026, Ref No: MP
41/06/2026, Ref No: MP 42/06/2026, Ref No: MP 43/06/2026, Ref No: MP
44/06/2026, Ref No: MP 45/06/2026, Ref No: MP 46/06/2026, Ref No: MP
47/06/2026, Ref No: MP 48/06/2026, Ref No: MP 49/06/2026, Ref No: MP
50/06/2026, Ref No: MP 51/06/2026, Ref No: MP 52/06/2026, Ref No: MP
53/06/2026, Ref No: MP 54/06/2026/
COMPONENT: CORPORATE SUPPORT: Kindly note that the following X4
posts were advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July
2026, The requirements have been amended as follows: Requirements: No
experience is required. Post title: Human Resource Clerk (Level 05) (X4
Posts) with Ref No: CS 04/06/2026, Post title: Secretary (Level 05) (X1 Post):
with Ref No: CS 05/06/2026
COMPONENT: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT AND INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS: Kindly note that the following X5 Posts were advertised in Public
Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026, The requirements have been
amended as follows: Requirements: No experience is required. Post:
Administration Clerk (Level 05) (X2 Posts): Ref No: ESIR 03/06/2026, Ref
No: ESIR 04/06/2026. Post: Supply Chain Clerk (Level 05) (X1 Post): Ref
No: ESIR 05/06/2026. Post: Financial Clerk (Level 05) (X1 Post), Ref No:
ESIR 06/06/2026. Post: Secretary (Level 05) (X1 Post): Ref No: ESIR
07/06/2026
COMPONENT: RESEARCH: Kindly note that the following X2 posts were
advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026, The
requirements have been amended as follows: Requirements: No experience is
required. Post: Secretary (Level 5) (X2 Posts), Ref No: RS 02/06/2026, Ref
No: RS 03/06/2026
2
COMPONENT: RISK AND INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT: Kindly note that the
following 4 posts were advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated
03 July 2026, The requirements have been amended as follows:
Requirements: No experience is required. Post: Administration Clerk (Level
05) (X2 Posts): Ref No: RIM 03/06/2026/, Ref No: RIM 04/06/2026. Post:
Secretary (Level 05) (X2 Posts), Ref No: RIM 05/06/2026, Ref No: RIM
06/06/2026
COMPONENT: CORPORATE SUPPORT: Kindly note that the following 4
posts were advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July
2026, The requirements have been amended as follows: Requirements: No
experience is required. Post: Human Resource Clerk (Level 05) (X4 Posts):
Ref No: CS 04/06/2026. Post: Secretary (Level 05) (X1 Post): Ref No: CS
05/06/2026
3
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 05 - 07
BASIC EDUCATION B 08 - 09
CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE SERVICE C 10 - 12
COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE D 13 - 15
DEFENCE E 16 - 29
ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY F 30 - 32
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR G 33 - 37
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT H 38 - 40
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE I 41 - 42
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING J 43 - 57
HOME AFFAIRS K 58 - 68
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT L 69 - 78
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY M 79 - 80
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE N 81 - 86
PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION O 87 - 88
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE P 89 - 102
TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS Q 103 - 105
TREASURY R 106 - 107
WATER AND SANITATION S 108 - 112
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
EASTERN CAPE T 113 - 126
GAUTENG U 127 - 137
KWAZULU NATAL V 138 - 157
LIMPOPO W 158 - 197
MPUMALANGA X 198 - 203
NORTH WEST Y 204 - 206
WESTERN CAPE Z 207 - 227
4
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful completion of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. NB :
Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will
be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case
shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your application before the
closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate
applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for
each post. Due to high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt
of applications. Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/01 : CAMPUS MANAGER REF NO: 3/3/1/49/2026
Directorate: Inspection Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Stellenbosch)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a National
Diploma in Administration (NQF6). A Minimum of 3 years supervisory
experience in infrastructure support. Job Related Knowledge: Knowledge of
the Public Service Regulations and departmental policies, prescripts
resolutions, delegations and instruction relating to financial /personnel matters.
Administrative Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Administration
procedures. Procurement directives and procedures. EPMDS. Capital Works
Programme (Major and minor) Human resource matters. Job Related Skills:
5
Ability to communicate well and interact with people at different levels. Planning
skills. Management and organising. Creativity. Interpersonal skills. Analytical
skills. Listening skills. Computer Literacy. Report writing skills.
Budgeting/Financial management.
DUTIES : Management of infrastructure projects and programmes support services.
Coordinate and monitor the-day to-day maintenance programmes and
expenditure thereof with regards to fixed assets on the campus.
Facilitate/coordinate/compile needs assessment and maintenance schedules
with regards to capital works (major and minor capital projects). Develop,
implement and monitor action plans regarding projects and routine activities as
well as risk management. Provide advice on and ensure adherence to public
service and departmental policies and prescripts e.g. PFMA, supply chain
management, record management, housing and office administration,
transport, human resources etc. Ensure the provision of adequate
accommodation, housekeeping, transport, record management. Maintenance,
telecom, security and driver/messenger to the campus. Manage financial,
procurement and assets management. Provide support regarding to the
provision and budgeting and the monitoring of expenditure. Identify losses and
report incidents accordingly (loss control). Assist manager with auditing of all
official internal register (i.e. asset registers, maintenance and project registers
transport registers and logs etc). Ensure management of fleet of departmental
vehicles, subsidized vehicles and government garages and report accordingly.
Coordinate, monitor and control the movement, maintenance and safeguarding
of assets. Human Resource administration and development support services.
Oversee and monitor HRM related matters. Filling of vacancies. Training and
development of personnel. Performance management (EPMDS). Managing
discipline in the division. Ensure capacity and development of staff. Information
Management. Ensure the dissemination of information in the component.
Ensure the filling, storing and safekeeping of documents. Develop and maintain
the relevant databases. Ensure the development of electronic and manual filing
systems for the component. Handle customer queries and complaints
regarding the campus.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N. Africander Tel No: (021) 809 1625
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
CMrecruit49@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Males, Coloured Males, White Females and Persons with
disability.
POST 24/02 : SENIOR SAFETY OFFICER REF NO: 3/3/1/50/2026
Directorate: NARYSEC College
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (Middelburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a National Diploma in Safety Management
(NQF level 6). Minimum of two (2) years’ relevant experience in safety
management. Job Related Knowledge: Knowledge of access control
procedures. Knowledge of measures for the control and movement of
equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed security procedures (e.g MIS,
NISA, Protection of Information Act, etc.) and the authority of security officers
under these documents. Knowledge of the relevant emergency procedures.
Job Related Skills: Computer Literate. Communication skills. Facilitation skills.
Report writing skills. Presentation skills. Liaison skills. Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Manage operations to achieve planned outcomes: Conduct frequently safety
and security risk assessment. Identify potential hazards. Implement control
measures. Proactively prevent hazardous conditions. Implement OHS policies
and programs. Identify and record all security risk and breaches to inform
decision making. Identify and classify security breaches: Consider all possible
security risk. Maintenance of the database of all security breaches. Provide
regular reports pertaining risk and security breaches. Provide regular reports
pertaining risk and security breaches. Provide advice and guidance on safety
and security measures: Attend to all safety related enquiries. Advise
management about safety measures and potential security risks. Provide
awareness campaign on safety, risks and security matters. Manage the
deployment of security personnel on the premises: Determine security needs
of the college. Developing work schedules and task allocation. Ensure that all
entry points are guarded. Facilitate the safekeeping and issuance of keys to all
6
facilities: Ensure the proper storage of keys. Attend to Lost or Stolen Key
incidents. Ordering repairs for damaged locks and lost keys. Oversee
installations and maintenance of new locks. Record and investigate incidents
to determine causes of lost keys. Respond to routine and emergency calls lock
and unlock offices.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Themba Cebani Tel No: (049) 802 6604
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SSOrecruit50@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: Africans and Persons with disability.
POST 24/03 : SENIOR DRIVER OPERATOR REF NO: 3/3/1/51/2026
Directorate: Infrastructure Support
Re-advertisement, candidates who applied previously are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Modimolle)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a NQF level 3 qualification (Grade 10
certificate). Five (5) years ’driving, operating and drilling experience. Job
Related Knowledge: Safety: Standards prescribed in terms of statute. Tools:
The correct use of tolls and equipment. Keep inventory and maintain
equipment. Job Related Skills: Good communication skills. Judgement skills.
Excellent hearing and vision. A valid driver’s licence Code EC and operating
certificate.
DUTIES : Render production services i.t.o. drilling and construction services. Produce
boreholes and construct agricultural infrastructure according to specification
and recognized standards. Preparation of access roads at construction and
drilling sites. Construct, erect and repair existing and new disease control
fence. Drilling, testing and repair of existing boreholes. Operating specialized
drilling and earthmoving equipment. Transport, load and offload material,
goods and equipment. Transportation of officials. Application of safety and
precautionary measures. Ensure maintenance of drilling and construction
equipment. Ensure compliance with OHS act. Service construction and drilling
equipment according to schedule. Quality assures serviced and maintained
equipment. Cleaning and lubrication of machinery and equipment. Inspect and
maintain equipment and report defects. Perform administrative and related
functions. Keep and maintain job record/register. Keep log sheets of vehicles,
drilling and earthmoving-equipment and machines.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Koos du Plessis Tel No: (012) 846 8535 or Ms P Tsebe at (067) 418 8264
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SDOrecruit51@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Females and Persons with disability.
7
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF BASIC EDUCATION
The Department of Basic Education is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric
targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. Preference will be given to underrepresented groups as
per the DBE Employment Equity Targets. Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Submitted via post to: Private Bag X895, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-deliver to: The
Department of Basic Education, 222 Struben Street, Pretoria or you can email
your application at LowerApplications@dbe.gov.za. Please visit the
Department of Education’s website at www.education.gov.za or the
Department of Public Service and Administration vacancy circulars at
www.dpsa.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms N Kumalo/ Ms M Mahape
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the most recently approved Z83 Application
for Employment Form, obtainable from the DBE Website or any Public Service
Department/Webpage. Use of the old Z83 Form will result in disqualification.
The Z83 must be completed in full and page 2 duly signed. A clear indication
of the post and reference number that is being applied for must be indicated
on your Z83. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 with a
detailed Curriculum Vitae (only). Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates on or before
the day of the interview. Successful candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset record checks,
qualification and employment verification including social media profiles).
Appointment is subject to positive results of the security clearance process.
The successful candidate will be required to sign an annual performance
agreement and, where applicable, annually disclose his/her financial interests.
All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of
interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may
be associated with. Applicants, who do not comply with the requirements
outlined above, will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. The successful candidate must sign an annual performance
agreement, annually disclose his/ her financial interests and be subjected to a
security clearance. NB: People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POST
POST 24/04 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: DBE/55 /2026
Branch: Curriculum Policy, Support and Monitoring
Chief Directorate: Public Examinations and Assessments
Directorate: Public Examinations
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of three a (3) years relevant post matric
qualification (NQF level 6) or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA;
A minimum of at least two (2) years administrative work experience; Good
understanding of the operation of the Public Sector; Good interpersonal
relations; Good communication skills (written and verbal) and planning and
organisational skills.; Good telephone etiquette; Computer literacy (MS Word,
MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook); Ability to plan in details, be
friendly, confident, Ability to work independently; Ability to work under pressure;
Ability to multi-task and cope with a high workload; General office
management; Willingness to learn quickly; Accuracy and a commitment to a
high standard of work.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing administrative
support to the Directorate: Public Examinations and the Office of the Director;
Coordinating all directorate activities, including monitoring and tracking the
directorate’s operational, management, and improvement plans; Coordinating
8
and providing secretariat support for pre-standardisation meetings of the NSC
and SC examination results; consolidating reports for the directorate, keeping
records and maintaining an archiving system for all directorate documents,
tracking expenditure of the directorate, Coordinating and providing secretariat
support for DBE/Umalusi bilateral meetings; Providing secretariat support for
Directorate management meetings; Promoting communication, innovation, and
creativity within the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kumalo Tel No: (012) 357 3398/ Ms M Mahape Tel No: (012) 357 3291
9
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE SERVICE
The Civilian Secretariat for Police Service is an equal opportunity, and gender sensitive employer and it
is the intention to promote representivity in the Public Service through the filling of these posts. The
Secretariat for Police service is committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and equity
employment.
APPLICATIONS : must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X922, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
delivered or couriered to 268 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Pretorius Street, Fedsure
Building 2nd floor, Pretoria at the Reception Desk. No late applications will be
accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z.83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website or Recruitment Office within the
Civilian Secretariat for Police Service. Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g. indicating
positions held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities). Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or
before the day of the interviews following communication from the Department.
Failure to submit the requested documents/information will result in your
application not being considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will
result in the candidate being disqualified. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three months
of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application
was unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend the most suitable candidate. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to a security clearance. The Secretary of Police Service has the right
not to fill the post. All posts are based in Pretoria. Preference will be given to
youth, people with disability and women in accordance with our employment
equity. NB: Please ensure that your application reaches this office not later than
16h00 on week-days.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/05 : EXECUTIVE PERSONAL ASSISTANT: OFFICE OF THE DDG’S REF NO:
CSP/10/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Public
Administration/or related equivalent qualification. Two years’ experience in
administrative/secretarial/personal assistant environment. Knowledge of
information management, office administration and management. Knowledge
of Supply Chain Management Procedures, Public Service Legislative and
policy framework, applicable departmental policies and Public Finance
Management Act. Knowledge of virtual meeting platforms, calendar and
Scheduling Tools. Computer literacy, communication (verbal & written) Skills.
Report writing, presentation, project management. Planning and organizing.
Analytical and ability to interact with all business units.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services. Screen calls, emails and
correspondence. Assist in planning, scheduling and coordinating internal and
external meetings. Draft the meeting calendar for the DDG. Book boardroom/s
for the DDG’s meetings with internal and external stakeholders. Assist with the
compilation of quarterly Demand Management Plans and monitoring of the
budget expenditure. Provide secretariat support services for the DDG’s
meetings. Follow up on resolutions and action items. Handle correspondence
in the office of the DDG. Organise, maintain the filing system and confidential
records. Render logistical support services in the office of the DDG. Provide
travel and accommodation arrangements. Process and submit itineraries.
Process and submit subsistence and travel claims. Ensure that the DDG is
10
prepared for meetings and engagements (i.e. being in receipt of relevant
information, briefing documents, etc.). Maintain the DDG’s personal file (e.g.
keep copies of documents submitted to HRM Unit such as leave forms,
Performance Agreements/Assessments and other relevant work-related
documents). Ensure effective and ongoing communication (verbal and written)
is maintained from the office of the DDG, Branch and other business units.
Receive and record documentation before submission to the Branch
Coordinator. Meet and greet the clients/stakeholders who are visiting the DDG
and manage the waiting area.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Maiko Tel No: (012) 493 1390
APPLICATIONS : Can be emailed to ExecutivePA-ODDG@csp.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, Coloureds, Indians and Whites both males
and females in accordance with our employment equity plan.
POST 24/06 : ASSISTANT MONITORING AND EVALUATION OFFICER REF NO:
CSP/11/2026
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma at (NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA) or relevant qualification
in Social Sciences, Developmental Studies, Population Studies or Public
Administration. Experience in data collection and processing. Data analysis
and Information management. A high degree of computer literacy especially
using the Microsoft windows suite (e.g. MS Word, Excel, Outlook).
Understanding of policing environment and/or monitoring and evaluation.
Planning and organizing. Data collection and management skill. Analytical,
project management and interpersonal skills. Attention to detail, confidentiality
and communication skills (written &verbal). Ability to work under pressure,
problem analysis and decision-making. Drivers licence.
DUTIES : Conduct oversight visits. Collect data using M&E tools. Collect source
documents as evidence to support the data collected. Capture data into the
capturing system. Conduct quality control and assurance on completed M&E
tools. Handle the control of documents within the directorate. Provide access
to source documents based on access rights, maintain and update file of
source documents. Provide admin support to the directorate. Ensure proper
filling and archival of documents. Coordinate travel arrangements. Provide
admin support to the Directorate. Provide logistical and administrative support
to the Monitoring and Evaluation Team.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NM Sefiti Tel No: (012) 493 1388
APPLICATIONS : Can be emailed to AMandE-Officer@csp.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, persons with disability, Coloureds, Indians
and Whites both males and females in accordance with our employment equity
plan.
POST 24/07 : ACCOUNTING CLERK REF NO: CSP/12/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. Basic knowledge of financial functions,
ability to capture data and ability to collate financial stats. Basic knowledge of
Public financial legislations, procedures and treasury regulations. Knowledge
of basic financial operating system (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc.). Knowledge
of working procedure in terms of the working environment and understanding
of legislative framework governing the Public Service. Computer literacy.
Planning and organizing, interpersonal and good verbal and written
communication skills. Confidentiality, time management and ability to work
under pressure.
DUTIES : Render financial accounting transactions. Receive invoices, check invoices for
correctness, verification and approval. Process invoices (e.g. capture
payments). Perform salary administration support services. Receive salary
advices, process advices (e.g. check advices for correctness, capture salaries,
bonuses, salary adjustments and capture all deductions etc.). Filing of
documents. Perform bookkeeping support services. Capture all financial
transactions. Clear suspense accounts, record debtors and creditors. Process
electronic banking transections and compile journals. Render Internal Control.
Perform activities attached to improving control environment of payments for
completeness and accuracy. Provide assistance in identifying control
11
mechanisms to reduce possible non-compliance. Develop, update and
maintain an effective filing system /system control for the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Mashifane Tel No: (012) 493 1435
APPLICATIONS : Can be emailed to AccountingClerk@csp.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, persons with disability, Coloureds, Indians
and Whites both males and females in accordance with our employment equity
plan.
POST 24/08 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK REF NO: CSP/13/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate/National Senior Certificate or equivalent. No experience
required. Basic Knowledge of supply chain duties, practices and ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Basic Knowledge of
and understanding of legislative framework governing the Public Service. Basic
Knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Computer
literacy, communication (verbal and written), Planning and organizing.
Teamwork, accountability and transparency. Ethical Conduct and Integrity, time
management. Customer Service Orientation.
DUTIES : Render Acquisition clerical support. Update and maintain a supplier database.
Register suppliers on the Supply Chain (Logis) System. Receive and request
quotation. Capture specification on the electronic purchasing system. Issue
and receive bid documents. Provide secretariat or logistical support during the
bid consideration and contracts conclusion process. Place orders for goods,
receive and verify goods from suppliers. Capture goods in registers database,
receive request for goods from end users and maintain goods register. Update
and maintain register of suppliers. Render Assets Management clerical
support. Compile and maintain assets records/database. Check and issue,
furniture, equipment and stationery to business units. Identify redundant, non-
serviceable and obsolete equipment for disposal. Assist in conducting stock
taking according to stock taking plan. Verify asset register.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Mashifane Tel No: (012) 493 1435
APPLICATIONS : Can be emailed to SCMClerk@csp.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to youth, persons with disability, Coloureds, Indians
and Whites both males and females in accordance with our employment equity
plan.
12
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE
The vision of the Department of Cooperative Governance is one of having a well co-ordinated system of
Government consisting of National, Provincial and Local spheres working together to achieve
sustainable development and service delivery. The Department intends to invest in human capital,
increase integrated technical capacity directed at service delivery and promote representivity in the
Department through the filling of this post. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
NOTE : Applicants are advised that a new application for employment (Z83) has been
in effect since 1 January 2021. The new application for employment form can
be downloaded at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications
submitted using the old Z83 form will not be accepted. Applications must be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV, with specific starting and ending dates
in all relevant positions and clarity on the levels and ranks pertaining to
experience, as well as current remuneration package, as well as at least 2
contactable references. A recommended CV template is available on the
department’s website on www.cogta.gov.za, click on the jobs tab. Only
shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit certified documents/ copies
on or before the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Incomplete applications or applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS position will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three
(3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessment to assess cognitive
capability, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. Core
competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership. People management and
empowerment. Advanced programme and project management. Change
management. Financial management. Process Competencies: Knowledge
management. Service Delivery Innovation. Advanced problem-solving and
analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Advanced communication
skills (written and verbal). The successful candidate will be appointed to
positive results of a pre-employment screening process which includes
criminal, credit, citizenship checks and verification of educational qualification
certificates. The successful candidate will be appointed to probation for a
period of 12 months and will be required to sign a performance agreement. It
is important to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all
information and attachments in support of the application are submitted by the
due date. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you
have not been contacted within three months of the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right to make an appointment. The requirements for
appointment at Senior Management Service level include the successful
completion of Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the
National School of Government, which can be accessed using the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Candidates must provide proof of successful completion of the course prior to
appointment. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/09 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PLANNING AND REPORTING REF NO: DD/PR/01
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : 3-Year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Business Management,
Development Studies / Public Administration / Public Management or
equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 3-5 years’
experience in strategic planning and reporting. Proficient in Microsoft Office
packages (MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Teams, MS Excel and Outlook, etc.).
A valid driver’s licence. Generic Competencies: Planning and Organising,
13
Coordination, Problem Solving & Decision Making, Project Management,
People Management & Empowerment, Client Orientation & Customer Focus,
Team Leadership, Diversity Management, Communication (Verbal & Written),
Interpersonal Skills and Financial Management. Technical Competencies: In-
depth knowledge and understanding: Legislation Governing Planning,
Monitoring, and Reporting, Data Collection, Data Analysis and Report Writing,
Research methodology, Strategic Planning and Reporting processes, Annual
Operational Plan, Audit and risk action plans, Preparation of minutes for
Quarterly Review meetings
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Facilitate the
development of a Strategic Plan and an Annual Performance Plan. Coordinate
and facilitate the development of the departmental Annual Operational Plan.
Compile Quarterly Performance Reports. Coordinate and facilitate the
development of an Annual Report. Compile strategic reports such as the
Handover Report, Mid-Term Assessment Report, Strategic End-Term Report
and departmental MTDP Progress Reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Kgwete at 064 081 3357
For application enquiries contact: To the T Recruitment at 067 391 7387
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
dcog17@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 24/10 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF NO: ADRM05
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : 3-Year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Finance or equivalent
qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience
in a related field. Proficient in Microsoft Office packages (MS Word, MS
PowerPoint, MS Teams, MS Excel and Outlook e.t.c). Generic Competencies:
Planning and Organising, Coordination, Problem Solving & Decision Making,
Project Management, People Management & Empowerment, Client
Orientation & Customer Focus, Team Leadership, Diversity Management,
Communication (Verbal & Written). Technical Competencies: In-depth
knowledge of: Comprehensive knowledge and understanding of: the Municipal
Finance Management Act (MFMA) Treasury Regulations, Division of Revenue
Act (DoRA), Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Provincial and Local
Government legislation and systems. Policy development. Public Private
Partnerships. Revenue and debt management. Audit management. Poverty
alleviation and job creation strategies.
DUTIES : Develop and implement revenue enhancement initiatives to enhance revenue
collection in municipalities. Coordinate the reports on the payment of
government debt to municipalities. Report on credibility of credit controls and
debt policies and its by-laws in municipalities. Coordinate and develop
municipal debt collection strategies and financial recovery plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fata at 072 3833 789
For application enquiries contact: Mr. S Ndlovu Tel No: (011) 763 1103/04
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
response@multilead.co.za
POST 24/11 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED MONITORING AND REPORTING
SYSTEM REF NO: ADIMRS
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : 3-Year National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Monitoring and Evaluation /
Development Studies or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6/7 as recognised
by SAQA. 3-5 years’ experience in a related field. Proficient in Microsoft Office
packages (MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Teams, MS Excel and Outlook e.t.c).
A valid driver’s license and extensive travelling. Generic Competencies:
Planning and Organising, Coordination, Problem Solving & Decision Making,
Project Management, People Management & Empowerment, Client
Orientation & Customer Focus, Team Leadership, Diversity Management,
Communication (Verbal & Written). Technical Competencies: In-depth
knowledge of: Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation, Strategic planning.
Outcome base approach. Analytic skills. Research. Excel at intermediate
/advanced level.
14
DUTIES : Facilitate development and implementation of policy and regulatory
frameworks to strengthen monitoring and reporting. Analyse and develop
reports on the performance of municipalities. Coordinate the national and
provincial monitoring and reporting structures. Develop and maintain
monitoring and reporting databases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms X Saila at 082 632 2277 / 012 3340883
For application enquiries contact Tel No: (010) 593 1998
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
adimrs@ntirho.co.za
15
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 at 16h00 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed
copies will not be considered).
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan. Applications must be submitted on
the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from any Public Service Department office
i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an application be received
using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will be disqualified, which
must be originally signed and dated by the applicant and which must be
accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the applicants’
training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience). Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must
be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score
both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preference, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. The competency assessment will be limited to successful candidates
in the interview process only. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability checks (pre-employment screening) which may include
social media profiles checks. A successful candidate will have to undergo a full
security vetting while in the employ of the department and negative outcome
shall nullify employment contract. Failure to submit the required documents will
result in your application not being considered. Successful candidates will be
required to disclose their financial interests within one (1) month of
appointment. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback within 3
(three) months after the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of
applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job description(s)
please contact the person indicated in the post details. Successful candidates
will be appointed on probation for the period of twelve (12) months in terms of
the prescribed rules.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/12 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: SUPERVISOR REF NO: SG 01/24/26/01
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
16
CENTRE : South African Military Health Service HQ, PSAP Nodal Point, Lyttelton,
Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. Three (3) years’
experience in Human Resource /PSAP Maintenance environment. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Computer literacy (Word and Excel organizing
and interpersonal relationship skills, basic knowledge of the mainframe system
and may have HR courses Knowledge and understanding of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Public Service Regulation (PSR), Public Service Act
(PSA) and Treasury Regulations. Proven ability to communicate effectively
(verbal and written), orientated towards teamwork and receptive to work related
suggestion. Enthusiastic and positive personal conduct.
DUTIES : The suitable candidate will be responsible for the following duties:
Administration of re-appointments of professionals (Medical, Allied and
Clinical). Transfers, detached duty, Capturing of Commuted Overtime, Rural
and Deep Rural Allowances, Grade Progression, Restructuring of OSD
Packages and Salary Audits.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K.S. Ledwaba Tel No: (012) 671 5097/5099
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Service, Private Bag
X102, Centurion, 0046, or hand deliver to LEW Building, Cnr Selborne and
Trichard Ave, Lyttelton. samhspsaphr@dod.mil.za
POST 24/13 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPERVISOR REF NO: SG 01/24/26/02
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Area Military Health Unit Western Cape (AMHU WC), Wynberg
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a minimum of three
(3) years’ experience in Human Resource Administration. Special requirements
(Skills needed): Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working environment.
Planning and organisation skills, Computer literacy. Proven ability to
communicate effectively (written and verbally). Language skills.
DUTIES : The suitable candidate will be responsible for the following duties: Record,
organise, store, capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line function).
Update registers enquiries. Handle routine enquires. Make photocopies and
receive or send facsimiles. Distribute documents/package to various
stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filling system for the
component. Type basic letters and /or other correspondence when required.
Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing register of the component.
ENQUIRIES : Major T.B. Nkonzo Tel No: (021) 799 6893 or WO2 Ndebele Tel No: (021) 799
6892
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Service, AMHU WC,
Wynberg, Private Bag X10, Wynberg, 7824 or hand deliver to Burren Road
Wynberg 7824 or email to Theodora.nkonzo@dod.mil.za
POST 24/14 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPERVISOR REF NO: SG 01/24/26/03
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Military Base Hospital, Lohatla
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a minimum of three
(3) years’ experience in Patient Administration. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture
data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding
of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of
working procedures in terms of the working environment Planning and
organisation skills, Computer literacy. Proven ability to communicate effectively
(written and verbally). Language skills. Problem solving.
DUTIES : Ensure all patient related tasks, reception, data capturing, management of
medical debts, management of accounts, spectacle services. Managing health
records. The applicants will be involved in all aspects of the scanning and
capturing processes. Receiving of health records. Rendering a comprehensive
secretarial and reception service. Ensuring correct referral documentation for
referred patients. Handling health record and telephonic enquiries. Compiling
quarterly and monthly statistics for management retrieve records for
HCP’s/management. Problem solving and supervisory duties.
ENQUIRIES : Major L.D. Masalisa Tel No: (053) 830 3225
17
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health, Military Health Combat
Training Centre, Postmasburg, Private Bag X3001, or hand deliver to Military
Base, Cnr Quartz & Mangaan Road, Postmasburg, 8420 or email
Lorna.masalisa@dod.mil.za
POST 24/15 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPERVISOR REF NO: SG 01/24/26/04 (3X
POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : 3 Military Hospital, Bloemfontein.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, with a minimum of three
(3) years’ experience in Patient Administration. Special requirements (Skills
needed): Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture
data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding
of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of
working procedures in terms of the working environment. Planning and
organisation skills, Computer literacy. Proven ability to communicate effectively
(written and verbally). Language skills.
DUTIES : Manage medical records, receiving capturing and scanning of medical records.
Render a comprehensive reception and secretarial services. Ensuring correct
referral documentation for referred patients. Handling medical record queries.
Compile weekly and monthly statistics for management. Retrieve records for
HCPs/management. Problem. Facilitate medical authorities. Medical debtor
and invoice management.
ENQUIRIES : Maj L. Tshita Tel No: (051) 402 2213
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 3 Military Hospital, Private Bag X40003,
Brandhof,9324, or hand deliver to 3 Military Hospital, Furstenberg road, Tempe,
Bloemfontein or email to 3milHR@dod.mil.za
POST 24/16 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: SG
01/24/26/05
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 3 Military Hospital, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required.
Special requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of clerical duties, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment. Planning and organisation skills, Computer literacy. Proven ability
to communicate effectively (written and verbally). Language skills.
DUTIES : The suitable candidate will be responsible for the following duties:
Management and effectiveness of the stores operations. Execute the Log plan,
policies and internal procedures as set by the HQ Commander. Keep a
complete record of all equipment in the stores. Ensure that unserviceable
equipment are written-off to the unserviceable store. Issue equipment by
means of an issue voucher via the transito. Receive incoming stock and
compare with the receipt voucher to be posted on the main ledger. Place orders
for equipment when equipment reaches their stock levels. Ensure stores are
neatly packed for stock taking and all stock that is not needed must be disposed
and make space for new stock. Control register must be updated and controlled
in order to maintain stock levels and to monitor the distribution of equipment.
Also responsible for managing all general administration work, distribute
relevant incoming correspondence to the involved section. Archiving must be
done according to prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Maj L. Tshita Tel No: (051) 402 2213
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 3 Military Hospital, Private Bag X40003, Brandhof,
9324, or hand deliver to 3 Military Hospital, Furstenberg road, Tempe Military
base, Bloemfontein or email to 3milHR@dod.mil.za
POST 24/17 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION: REF NO: SG
01/24/26/06
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Military Health Combat Training Centre, Lohatla
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required.
Special requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of clerical duties, practices
18
as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment. Knowledge of various filing systems. Planning and organisation
skills, Computer literacy. Proven ability to communicate effectively (written and
verbally). Language skills.
DUTIES : The suitable candidate will be responsible for the following duties:
Management and effectiveness of the stores operations. Execute the Log plan,
policies and internal procedures as set by the HQ Commander. Keep a
complete record of all equipment in the stores. Ensure that unserviceable
equipment are written-off to the unserviceable store. Issue equipment by
means of an issue voucher via the transito. Receive incoming stock and
compare with the receipt voucher to be posted on the main ledger. Place orders
for equipment when equipment reaches their stock levels. Ensure stores are
neatly packed for stock taking and all stock that is not needed must be disposed
and make space for new stock. Control register must be updated and controlled
in order to maintain stock levels and to monitor the distribution of equipment.
Also responsible for managing all general administration work, distribute
relevant incoming correspondence to the involved section. Archiving must be
done according to prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Major G.A. Nienaber Tel No: (053) 321 2366 or Sgt C.J. Louw Tel No: (053)
321 2189
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health, Military Health Combat
Training Centre, Postmasburg, Private Bag X3001, or hand deliver to Military
Base, Cnr Quartz & Mangaan Road, Postmasburg, 8420 or email
Lorna.masalisa@dod.mil.za
POST 24/18 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: SG 01/24/26/07
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Institute for Maritime Medicine (IMM), Simonstown
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required.
Special requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of clerical duties, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment. Planning and organisation skills, Language skills. Proven ability
to communicate effectively (written and verbally). Computer literacy. A typing
test will be required of all candidates interviewed.
DUTIES : Ensure an effective reception service. Record, organize, store and retrieve
information related to work in the administrative environment and or deal
directly with clients by requesting and providing information. Capture patient
health data. Routine administration output control statistics. Retrieve records
for HCP’s/management. The applicant will be required to render
comprehensive clinic/ward reception and secretarial duties. Process and
capturing of health records on the Military Medical Main Frame. Liaison
between patients and Health Care Professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Major A. Haman Tel No: (021) 787 4507/4497 or Mr B.O. Xhalabile Tel No:
(021) 787 4026
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Service, Human
Resource section, Private Bag X1, Simonstown, Cape Town, 7995 or hand
deliver to Institute for Maritime Medicine, Simonstown, Cape Town, 7995 or
email to rohan.terblanche@dod.mil.za
POST 24/19 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: SG 01/24/26/08
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 1 Medical Battalion Group (MED BN GP), Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required.
Special requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of clerical duties, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment. Planning and organisation skills, Computer literacy. Proven ability
to communicate effectively (written and verbally). Language skills.
DUTIES : A successful candidate will be responsible to perform the following core
functions: Render general clerical support services such as; record, organize,
19
store, capture correspondence and data. Handle routine enquiries. Make
photocopies and receive or send facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Type letters and/or other correspondence
when required. Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing documents
register of the office.
ENQUIRIES : Ssgt R.S. Khuzwayo Tel No: (031) 451 1187/832
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Service, 1 Med Bn Gp,
Durban, 4000 or hand deliver to 1 Med Bn Gp, 427 Anton Lembede Street or
email to Siyabonga.Khuzwayo@dod.mil.za
POST 24/20 : PERSONNEL OFFICIAL: PRODUCTION REF NO: SG 01/24/26/09
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Military Health Training Formation, Lephalale
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required.
Special requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of clerical duties, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment. Planning and organisation skills, Computer literacy. Proven ability
to communicate effectively (written and verbally). Language skills.
DUTIES : Provide personnel administration clerical support services within the Head
Quarter. Facilitate and provide administrative support for the Implementation
of conditions of service and service benefits (Leave, Housing, Medical, S & T,
injury on duty, long service recognition, overtime, relocation, pension,
allowances and termination of service. Noticas and Awol Administration.
Provide support to the recruitment and selection processes. Capture and
update all personal data on the mainframe. Maintain a leave register for the
department. Keep and maintain personnel records in the department. Keep
and maintain the attendance register of the department. Arrange travelling and
accommodation.
ENQUIRIES : Col M.R. Mphashi Tel No: (015) 299 3701 or WO1 L.A. Alberts Tel No: (015)
299 3743
APPLICATIONS : SAMHS Training Centre Lephalale, Private bag X7503, Lephalale 0557 or
hand deliver to SAMHS Training Centre Lephalale, Overwacht Ave,
Onverwacht, 0557 or email to Andisa.Teka@dod.mil.za
POST 24/21 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: SG 01/24/26/10
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Military Heath Training Formation Head Quarters
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required.
Special requirements (Skills needed): Knowledge of clerical duties, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment. Planning and organisation skills, Computer literacy. Proven ability
to communicate effectively (written and verbally). Language skills.
DUTIES : A successful candidate will be responsible to perform the following core
functions: Render general clerical support services such as; record, organize,
store, capture correspondence and data. Handle routine enquiries. Make
photocopies and receive or send facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Type letters and/or other correspondence
when required. Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing documents
register of the office.
ENQUIRIES : Maj A.V. Teka or WO2 M.M. Motjopi Tel No: (012) 674 6125/6221
APPLICATIONS : Department Defence, South African Military Health Service, Human Resource
Service Department, Military Health Training Formation, Private Bag X1022,
Thaba Tshwane 0143 or hand deliver to Military Health Training Formation 09
Voortrekker Road, Thaba Tshwane, Pretoria or email to
Andisa.Teka@dod.mil.za
POST 24/22 : SECRETARY REF NO: SG 01/24/26/11
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Area Military Health Unit North West, Potchefstroom
20
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent No experience required.
Special requirements (Skills needed): Language skills and the ability to
communication well with people at the different levels. Computer literate (MS
Word, Excel and power Point) and good telephone etiquette. Sound
organisational skills. Good inter-personal skills. High level of reliability. Good
communication skills. Ability to act with tact discretion.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial support service, to the Director. Record appointments and
events (manage the Director diary). Receive telephone calls and refer to the
correct role players. Records appointments and events in the diary of the
director. Operate office equipment like fax and photocopying machine. Liaises
with travelling agencies to make travelling arrangements for Chief Director.
Process travels and substances claims for Director. Follow up the
arrangements and discuss with the Chief Director when the relevant
documents are received to ensure that the Director endorsed the
accommodation prior to confirmation. Arrange meetings and events for
Director. Book venues, Invites role player, organise refreshments and set up
schedules for meetings and events. Process all invoices that emanate from
activities of the work of the Director. Records basic minutes of the meeting of
the Director. Draft routine correspondence and reports. Establish and maintain
filing system in the office of the Director. Administer matters like leave for the
Director. Handle the procumbent of standard items like stationery,
refreshments etc. Collect all relevant documents to enable the director to
prepare for the meetings. Manage all correspondence in and out of the
Director’s office. Ensure that documents are submitted for the Director’s
approval adhere to set norms and standards. Remain Abreast with the
procedure and processes that apply in the DOD to ensure efficient and effective
support to the Director. Study the relevant Public Servant and Departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents to ensure that the application thereof
is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Capt R. Mokgatlhe Tel No: (018) 289 1305
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Area Military Health Unit North West Human Resource
Office, Private Bag X2011, Noorbrug, Potchefstroom, 2351 or hand deliver to
Area Military Health Unit, Gen Koosdelare Road or email to
Sehularo.Legoete@dod.mil.za
POST 24/23 : SECRETARY REF NO: SG 01/24/26/12
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Area Military Health Unit Western Cape, Wynberg.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required.
Special requirements (Skills needed): Language skills and the ability to
communication well with people at the different levels. Computer literate (MS
Word, Excel and power Point) and good telephone etiquette. Sound
organisational skills. Good inter-personal skills. High level of reliability. Good
communication skills. Ability to act with tact discretion.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial support service, to the Director. Record appointments and
events (manage the Director diary). Receive telephone calls and refer to the
correct role players. Records appointments and events in the diary of the
director. Operate office equipment like fax and photocopying machine. Liaises
with travelling agencies to make travelling arrangements for Chief Director.
Process travels and substances claims for Director. Follow up the
arrangements and discuss with the Chief Director when the relevant
documents are received to ensure that the Director endorsed the
accommodation prior to confirmation. Arrange meetings and events for
Director. Book venues, Invites role player, organise refreshments and set up
schedules for meetings and events. Process all invoices that emanate from
activities of the work of the Director. Records basic minutes of the meeting of
the Director. Draft routine correspondence and reports. Establish and maintain
filing system in the office of the Director. Administer matters like leave for the
Director. Handle the procumbent of standard items like stationery,
refreshments etc. Collect all relevant documents to enable the director to
prepare for the meetings. Manage all correspondence in and out of the
Director’s office. Ensure that documents are submitted for the Director’s
approval adhere to set norms and standards. Remain Abreast with the
procedure and processes that apply in the DOD to ensure efficient and effective
support to the Director. Study the relevant Public Servant and Departmental
21
prescripts/policies and other documents to ensure that the application thereof
is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Maj T.B. Nkonzo Tel No: (021) 799 6893
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Services, Area Military
Health Unit Western Cape, Private Bag X10, Wynberg, 7824 or hand deliver to
Area Military Health Unit Buren Road or email to Theodora.nkozo@dod.mil.za
POST 24/24 : SECRETARY REF NO: SG 01/24/26/13
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Military Heath Training Formation Head Quarters, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required.
Special requirements (Skills needed): Language skills and the ability to
communication well with people at the different levels. Computer literate (MS
Word, Excel and power Point) and good telephone etiquette. Sound
organisational skills. Good inter-personal skills. High level of reliability. Good
communication skills. Ability to act with tact discretion.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial support service, to the Director. Record appointments and
events (manage the Director diary). Receive telephone calls and refer to the
correct role players. Records appointments and events in the diary of the
director. Operate office equipment like fax and photocopying machine. Liaises
with travelling agencies to make travelling arrangements for Chief Director.
Process travels and substances claims for Director. Follow up the
arrangements and discuss with the Chief Director when the relevant
documents are received to ensure that the Director endorsed the
accommodation prior to confirmation. Arrange meetings and events for
Director. Book venues, Invites role player, organise refreshments and set up
schedules for meetings and events. Process all invoices that emanate from
activities of the work of the Director. Records basic minutes of the meeting of
the Director. Draft routine correspondence and reports. Establish and maintain
filing system in the office of the Director. Administer matters like leave for the
Director. Handle the procumbent of standard items like stationery,
refreshments etc. Collect all relevant documents to enable the director to
prepare for the meetings. Manage all correspondence in and out of the
Director’s office. Ensure that documents are submitted for the Director’s
approval adhere to set norms and standards. Remain Abreast with the
procedure and processes that apply in the DOD to ensure efficient and effective
support to the Director. Study the relevant Public Servant and Departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents to ensure that the application thereof
is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Maj A.V. Teka or WO2 M.M. Motjopi Tel No: (012) 674 6125/6221
APPLICATIONS : Department Defence, South African Military Health Service, Human Resource
Service Department, Military Health Training Formation, Private Bag X1022,
Thaba Tshwane 0143 or hand deliver to Military Health Training Formation 09
Voortrekker Road, Thaba Tshwane, Pretoria or email to
Andisa.Teka@dod.mil.za
POST 24/25 : SECRETARY (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : SAMHS HQ. Directorate Psychology Ref No: SG 01/24/26/14A
SAMHS HQ. Directorate Social Work Ref No: SG 01/24/26/14B
SAMHS HQ. Directorate HRM Ref No: SG 01/24/26/14C
SAMHS HQ. Chief Directorate Force Support Ref No: SG 01/24/26/14D
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required.
Special requirements (Skills needed): Language skills and the ability to
communication well with people at the different levels. Computer literate (MS
Word, Excel and power Point) and good telephone etiquette. Sound
organisational skills. Good inter-personal skills. High level of reliability. Good
communication skills. Ability to act with tact discretion.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial support service, to the Director. Record appointments and
events (manage the Director diary). Receive telephone calls and refer to the
correct role players. Records appointments and events in the diary of the
director. Operate office equipment like fax and photocopying machine. Liaises
with travelling agencies to make travelling arrangements for Chief Director.
Process travels and substances claim for Director. Follow up the arrangements
and discuss with the Chief Director when the relevant documents are received
22
to ensure that the Director endorsed the accommodation prior to confirmation.
Arrange meetings and events for Director. Book venues, invites role player,
organise refreshments and set up schedules for meetings and events. Process
all invoices that emanate from activities of the work of the Director. Records
basic minutes of the meeting of the Director. Draft routine correspondence and
reports. Establish and maintain filing system in the office of the Director.
Administer matters like leave for the Director. Handle the procumbent of
standard items like stationery, refreshments etc. Collect all relevant documents
to enable the director to prepare for the meetings. Manage all correspondence
in and out of the Director’s office. Ensure that documents are submitted for the
Director’s approval adhere to set norms and standards. Remain Abreast with
the procedure and processes that apply in the DOD to ensure efficient and
effective support to the Director. Study the relevant Public Servant and
Departmental prescripts/policies and other documents to ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K.S. Ledwaba Tel No: (012) 671 5097/5099
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Services, Private Bag
X102 Centurion, 0046 or hand deliver to LEW Building, Block A 388 Cnr
Selborne and Trichard Ave, Lyttelton or email to samhspsaphr@dod.mil.za
POST 24/26 : SECRETARY REF NO: SG 01/24/26/15
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 7 Medical Battalion Group, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required.
Special requirements (Skills needed): Language skills and the ability to
communication well with people at the different levels. Computer literate (MS
Word, Excel and power Point) and good telephone etiquette. Sound
organisational skills. Good inter-personal skills. High level of reliability. Good
communication skills. Ability to act with tact discretion.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial support service, to the Director. Record appointments and
events (manage the Director diary). Receive telephone calls and refer to the
correct role players. Records appointments and events in the diary of the
director. Operate office equipment like fax and photocopying machine. Liaises
with travelling agencies to make travelling arrangements for Chief Director.
Process travels and substances claim for Director. Follow up the arrangements
and discuss with the Chief Director when the relevant documents are received
to ensure that the Director endorsed the accommodation prior to confirmation.
Arrange meetings and events for Director. Book venues, invites role player,
organise refreshments and set up schedules for meetings and events. Process
all invoices that emanate from activities of the work of the Director. Records
basic minutes of the meeting of the Director. Draft routine correspondence and
reports. Establish and maintain filing system in the office of the Director.
Administer matters like leave for the Director. Handle the procumbent of
standard items like stationery, refreshments etc. Collect all relevant documents
to enable the director to prepare for the meetings. Manage all correspondence
in and out of the Director’s office. Ensure that documents are submitted for the
Director’s approval adhere to set norms and standards. Remain Abreast with
the procedure and processes that apply in the DOD to ensure efficient and
effective support to the Director. Study the relevant Public Servant and
Departmental prescripts/policies and other documents to ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : WO1 M.M. Van Den Berg Tel No: (012) 671 6845
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Services, 7 Medical
Battalion Group, Private Bag X1010, Lyttleton, Pretoria 0140 or hand deliver to
7 Medical Battalion Group, Cnr North and Lionel Slade Street, Lyttelton,
Pretoria or email to marthinus.VanDerBerg@dod.mil.za
POST 24/27 : SECRETARY REF NO: SG 01/24/26/16
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : 8 Medical Battalion Group, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience required.
Special requirements (Skills needed): Language skills and the ability to
communication well with people at the different levels. Computer literate (MS
Word, Excel and power Point) and good telephone etiquette. Sound
23
organisational skills. Good inter-personal skills. High level of reliability. Good
communication skills. Ability to act with tact discretion.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial support service, to the Director. Record appointments and
events (manage the Director diary). Receive telephone calls and refer to the
correct role players. Records appointments and events in the diary of the
director. Operate office equipment like fax and photocopying machine. Liaises
with travelling agencies to make travelling arrangements for Chief Director.
Process travels and substances claims for Director. Follow up the
arrangements and discuss with the Chief Director when the relevant
documents are received to ensure that the Director endorsed the
accommodation prior to confirmation. Arrange meetings and events for
Director. Book venues, Invites role player, organise refreshments and set up
schedules for meetings and events. Process all invoices that emanate from
activities of the work of the Director. Records basic minutes of the meeting of
the Director. Draft routine correspondence and reports. Establish and maintain
filing system in the office of the Director. Administer matters like leave for the
Director. Handle the procumbent of standard items like stationery,
refreshments etc. Collect all relevant documents to enable the director to
prepare for the meetings. Manage all correspondence in and out of the
Director’s office. Ensure that documents are submitted for the Director’s
approval adhere to set norms and standards. Remain Abreast with the
procedure and processes that apply in the DOD to ensure efficient and effective
support to the Director. Study the relevant Public Servant and Departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents to ensure that the application thereof
is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.M Jagers Tel No: (012) 671 6403
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Services, 8 Medical
Battalion Group, Private Bag X1019, Lyttelton, Pretoria 0140 or hand deliver to
8 Medical Battalion Group, Tek Base, Lyttelton, Pretoria or email to
Mamokete.Jagers@dod.mil.za
POST 24/28 : HANDYMAN REF NO: SG 01/24/26/17
SALARY : R170 226 – R200 523 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Area Military Health Unit Gauteng, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET L4 qualification with 0-6 Months relevant experience is
required. Special requirements (Skills needed): Ability to communicate
effectively (verbal) in English. Basic knowledge of health and safety.
Knowledge of equipment. Good interpersonal relation and punctuality.
DUTIES : Conduct regular unit inspections. Attend to minor electrical, plumbing and
carpentry problems. Maintain of office equipment and furniture. Repair broken
furniture and equipment’s. Report defects. Safekeeping of maintenance tools
and supplies. Load and unload various articles and equipment needed on the
grounds. Remove refuge from the terrain. Load refuge on the truck for
transportation to refuge dumps or burn refuge. Maintain neatness of the unit
areas.
ENQUIRIES : WO2 H.P. De Beer Tel No: (012) 314 3145
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence Area Military Health Unit Gauteng, Private Bag X02,
Gezina, 0031 or hand deliver to 185 Rose Street Rietondale or email to
Amhu.gauteng@dod.mil.za
POST 24/29 : CLEANER REF NO: SG 01/24/26/18 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 3 Military Hospital, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience required. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Ability to stand long hours. Ability to work
independently. Organizing, Communication and writing skills. Basic knowledge
of health and safety. Working shift hours as required.
DUTIES : Clean offices corridors, elevators and boardrooms. Dusting and waxing office
furniture. Sweeping, scrubbing and waxing of floors. Vacuuming and
shampooing floors. Cleaning walls, windows and doors. Emptying and cleaning
of dirt bins. Collect and removing of waste papers. Freshen the office areas.
Clean general kitchen by cleaning of basins. Wash and keep stock of kitchen
utensils. Cleaning the rest rooms, refilling liquid soap. Replace toilet papers,
hand towels and fresheners. Empty and wash waste bins. Keep and maintain
cleaning materials and equipment’s. Report broken cleaning machines and
24
equipment. Cleaning of machines (microwares, vacuum etc.) and equipment
after use. Placing demands for cleaning materials and collection from stores.
Clear and clean tables.
ENQUIRIES : Maj L. Tshita Tel No: (051) 402 2213
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 3 Military Hospital Private Bag X40003, Brandhof or
hand deliver to 3 Military Hospital, Furstenberg Road, Tempe Military Base
9324 or email to 3milHR@dod.mil.za
POST 24/30 : CLEANER REF NO: SG 01/24/26/19 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Area Military Health Unit Gauteng, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience required. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Ability to stand long hours. Ability to work
independently. Organizing, Communication and writing skills. Basic knowledge
of health and safety. Working shift hours as required.
DUTIES : Clean offices corridors and boardrooms. Dusting and waxing office furniture.
Sweeping, scrubbing and waxing of floors. Vacuuming and shampooing floors.
Cleaning walls, windows and doors. Emptying and cleaning of dirt bins. Collect
and removing of waste papers. Freshen the office areas. Clean general kitchen
by cleaning of basins. Wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils. Cleaning the
rest rooms, refilling liquid soap. Replace toilet papers, hand towels and
refreshers. Empty and wash waste bins. Keep and maintain cleaning materials
and equipment’s. Report broken cleaning machines and equipment. Cleaning
of machines (microwares, vacuum etc.) and equipment after use. Placing
demands for cleaning materials and collection from stores.
ENQUIRIES : WO2 H.P. De Beer Tel No: (012) 314 3145
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence Area Military Health Unit Gauteng, Private Bag X02,
Gezina, 0031 or hand deliver to 185 Rose Street, Rietondale or email to
Amhu.gauteng@dod.mil.za
POST 24/31 : CLEANER REF NO: SG 01/24/26/20 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Military Health Training Formation Head Quarters, Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience required. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Ability to stand long hours. Ability to work
independently. Organizing, Communication and writing skills. Basic knowledge
of health and safety. Working shift hours as required.
DUTIES : Clean offices corridors, and boardrooms. Dusting and waxing office furniture.
Sweeping, scrubbing and waxing of floors. Vacuuming and shampooing floors.
Clean walls, windows and doors. Emptying and cleaning of dirt bins. Collect
and removing of waste papers. Freshen the office areas. Clean general kitchen
by cleaning of basins. Wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils. Clean the rest
rooms, refilling liquid soap. Replace toilet papers, hand towels and fresheners.
Empty and wash waste bins. Keep and maintain clean materials and
equipment’s. Report broken cleaning machines and equipment. Cleaning of
machines (microwares, vacuum etc.) and equipment after use. Placing
demands for cleaning materials and collection from stores.
ENQUIRIES : Maj A.V. Teka or WO2 M.M. Motjopi Tel No: (012) 674 6125/6221
APPLICATIONS : Department Defence, South African Military Health Service, Human Resource
Department, Military Health Training Formation, Private Bag X1022, Thaba
Tshwane 0143, or hand deliver to Military Health Training Formation, 09
Voortrekker Road, Thaba Tshwane, Pretoria or email to
Andisa.Teka@dod.mil.za
POST 24/32 : CLEANER REF NO: SG 01/24/26/21
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 7 Medical Battalion Group, Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience required. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Ability to stand long hours. Ability to work
independently. Organizing, Communication and writing skills. Basic knowledge
of health and safety. Working shift hours as required.
DUTIES : Clean offices corridors, and boardrooms. Dusting and waxing office furniture.
Sweeping, scrubbing and waxing of floors. Vacuuming and shampooing floors.
Clean walls, windows and doors. Emptying and cleaning of dirt bins. Collect
25
and removing of waste papers. Freshen the office areas. Clean general kitchen
by cleaning of basins. Wash and keep stock of kitchen utensils. Clean the rest
rooms, refilling liquid soap. Replace toilet papers, hand towels and fresheners.
Empty and wash waste bins. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and
equipment’s. Report broken cleaning machines and equipment. Cleaning of
machines (microwares, vacuum etc.) and equipment after use. Placing
demands for cleaning materials and collection from stores.
ENQUIRIES : WO1 M.M. Van Denberg Tel No: (012) 671 6845
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Services, 7 Medical
Battalion Group, Private Bag X1010, Lyttleton, Pretoria 0140 or hand deliver to
7 Medical Battalion Group, Cnr North and Lionel Slade Street, Lyttleton,
Pretoria or email to Monare.marthinus.VanDerBerg@dod.mil.za
POST 24/33 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: SG 01/24/26/22
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Area Military Health Unit Eastern Cape, Qqeberha
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience required. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in
English. Knowledge of the gardening service would be an advantage. Basic
knowledge of health and safety requirements. Sound knowledge of plants and
garden equipment. Ability to work in a team. Ability to prioritise and organise
work.
DUTIES : Maintain premises and surroundings. Clean premises and surroundings.
Empty dirty bins. Maintain the garden. Prune and trim flowers and trees. Mow
the grass. Remove weeds and garden refuse. Apply insecticides. Cultivate the
soil for trees and flowers. Maintain gardening equipment’s and tools. Detect
and report malfunctioning of gardening equipment and tools. Repair minor
defects of gardening equipment and tools.
ENQUIRIES : Maj D.P. Monyeki Tel No: (041) 505 1060/1062
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Area Military Health Unit Eastern Cape, Private
X6032, Forest Hill Gqeberha, 6001 or hand deliver to Army Support Base
Eastern Cape Military Base Hospital Gqeberha, Willow drive Forest hill or email
to Dimakatso.Monyeki@dod.mil.za
POST 24/34 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: SG 01/24/26/23
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE Area Military Health Unit Gauteng, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience required. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in
English. Knowledge of the gardening service would be an advantage. Basic
knowledge of health and safety requirements. Sound knowledge of plants and
garden equipment. Ability to work in a team. Ability to prioritise and organise
work.
DUTIES : Maintain premises and surroundings. Clean premises and surroundings.
Empty dirty bins. Maintain the garden. Prune and trim flowers and trees. Mow
the grass. Remove weeds and garden refuse. Apply insecticides. Cultivate the
soil for trees and flowers. Maintain gardening equipment’s and tools. Detect
and report malfunctioning of gardening equipment and tools. Repair minor
defects of gardening equipment and tools.
ENQUIRIES : WO2 H.P. De Beer Tel No: (012) 314 3145
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence Area Military Health Unit Gauteng, Private Bag X02,
Gezina, 0031 or hand deliver to 185 Rose Street, Rietondale or email to
Amhu.gauteng@dod.mil.za
POST 24/35 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: SG 01/24/26/24
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 8 Medical Battalion Group, Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience required. Special
requirements (Skills needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in
English. Knowledge of the gardening service would be an advantage. Basic
knowledge of health and safety requirements. Sound knowledge of plants and
garden equipment. Ability to work in a team. Ability to prioritise and organise
work.
26
DUTIES : Maintain premises and surroundings. Clean premises and surroundings.
Empty dirty bins. Maintain the garden. Prune and trim flowers and trees. Mow
the grass. Remove weeds and garden refuse. Apply insecticides. Cultivate the
soil for trees and flowers. Maintain gardening equipment’s and tools. Detect
and report malfunctioning of gardening equipment and tools. Repair minor
defects of gardening equipment and tools.
ENQUIRIES : Maj M.M. Jagers Tel No: (012) 671 6403
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Services, 8 Medical
Battalion Group, Private Bag X1019, Lyttleton, Pretoria 0140 or hand deliver to
8 Medical Battalion Group, Grunberg Leon Street Tek Base, Lyttleton, Pretoria
or email to Mamokete.Jagers@dod.mil.za
POST 24/36 : FOOD SERVICES AID REF NO: SG 01/24/26/25
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : 3 Military Hospital, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience required. Special
Requirements (Skills needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in
English. Basic knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of food preparation
and equipment. Working in shifts. Good interpersonal relation and punctuality.
DUTIES : Operate kitchen appliances. Prepare meals and snacks according to ration
scales and daily menu. Assisting with dishing up of meals. Assist with food
preparation during field exercise. Clean trays in wards. Lay out bed table for
clients, fetch food from the kitchen in food warming trolley. Control the food
before leaving the kitchen for special diet and the correct amount for the clients.
Serve tea or coffee. Collect dishes after meal. Take trolleys back to the kitchen
after using. Wash client’s water bottles and supply them with fresh water daily.
Mop the kitchen floor after each meal. Wash cupboards and walls weekly,
ensure that the diet lists are taken in time to the kitchen.
ENQUIRIES : Maj L. Tshita Tel No: (051) 402 2213
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, 3 Military Hospital Private Bag X40003, Brandhof or
hand deliver to 3 Military Hospital, Furstenberg Road, Tempe Military Base,
9324 or email to 3milHR@dod.mil.za
POST 24/37 : FOOD SERVICES AID REF NO: SG 01/24/26/26 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Military Health Training Formation Head Quarters, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience required. Special
Requirements (Skills needed): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal) in
English. Basic knowledge of health and safety. Knowledge of food preparation
and equipment. Working in shifts. Good interpersonal relation and punctuality.
DUTIES : Operate kitchen appliances. Prepare meals and snacks according to ration
scales and daily menu. Assisting with dishing up of meals. Assist with food
preparation during field exercise. Clean of trays in wards. Lay out bed table for
clients, fetch food from the kitchen in food warming trolley. Control the food
before leaving the kitchen for special diet and the correct amount for the clients.
Serve tea or coffee. Collect dishes after meal. Take trolleys back to the kitchen
after using. Wash client’s water bottles and supply them with fresh water daily.
Mop the kitchen floor after each meal. Wash cupboards and walls.
ENQUIRIES : Maj A.V. Teka or WO2 M.M. Motjopi Tel No: (012) 674 6125/6221
APPLICATIONS : Department Defence, South African Military Health Service, Human Resource
Service Department, Military Health Training Formation, Private Bag X1022,
Thaba Tshwane 0143 or hand deliver to Military Health Training Formation 09
Voortrekker Road, Thaba Tshwane, Pretoria or email to
Andisa.Teka@dod.mil.za
POST 24/38 : GENERAL STORE ASSISTANT: REF NO: SG 01/24/26/27
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Area Military Health Unit Gauteng, Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience required. Special
Requirements (Skills needed): Good communication (verbal/written) and
interpersonal skills and good numerical skill.
DUTIES : Provide a productive servicer regarding store equipment. Must be familiar with
prescribed fire Order (DD19) in store. Must be familiar with the use of fire
extinguishing apparatus. Ensure that all equipment or goods are received
27
correctly and in good condition. Must be able to complete register for
equipment received and issued. Execute all ad hoc store tasks as issued by
order.
ENQUIRIES : WO2 H.P. De Beer Tel No: (012) 314 3145
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence Area Military Health Unit Gauteng, Private Bag X02,
Gezina, 0031 or hand deliver to 185 Rose Street Rietondale or email to
Amhu.gauteng@dod.mil.za
POST 24/39 : GENERAL STORE ASSISTANT REF NO: SG 01/24/26/28
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Area Military Health Unit Northern Cape (AMHU NC)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience required. Special
Requirements (Skills needed): Good communication (verbal/written) and
interpersonal skills and good numerical skill.
DUTIES : Provide a productive servicer regarding store equipment. Must be familiar with
prescribed fire Order (DD19) in store. Must be familiar with the use of fire
extinguishing apparatus. Ensure that all equipment or goods are received
correctly and in good condition. Must be able to complete register for
equipment received and issued. Execute all ad hoc store tasks as issued by
order.
ENQUIRIES : Major L.D. Masalisa Tel No: (053) 830 3225 or Lieutenant Colonel J.A. Laufs
Tel No: (053) 830 3071
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, South African Military Health Service, AMHU NC,
Kimberly, Private Bag X5056, Kimberly, 8301 or hand deliver to Florence Street
Diskobolos Kimberley, 8325 or email to Lorna.masalisa@dod.mil.za
POST 24/40 : GENERAL STORE ASSISTANT REF NO: SG 01/24/26/29
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Area Military Health Unit North West. Potchefstroom
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience required. Special
Requirements (Skills needed): Good communication (verbal/written) and
interpersonal skills and good numerical skill.
DUTIES : Provide a productive servicer regarding store equipment. Must be familiar with
prescribed fire Order (DD19) in store. Must be familiar with the use of fire
extinguishing apparatus. Ensure that all equipment or goods are received
correctly and in good condition. Must be able to complete register for
equipment received and issued. Execute all ad hoc store tasks as issued by
order.
ENQUIRIES : Maj S.I. Legoete Tel No: (018) 289 1305
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Area Military Health Unit North West, Human
Resource Office, Private Bag X2011, Noorbrug, Potchefstroom 2351 or hand
deliver to Gen koosdelare Road, Potchefstroom 2351 or email to
Sehularo.Legoete@dod.mil.za
POST 24/41 : GENERAL STORE ASSISTANT REF NO: SG 01/24/26/30
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Military Health Training Formation Head Quarters, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET qualification. No experience required. Special
Requirements (Skills needed): Good communication (verbal/written) and
interpersonal skills and good numerical skill.
DUTIES : Provide a productive servicer regarding store equipment. Must be familiar with
prescribed fire Order (DD19) in store. Must be familiar with the use of fire
extinguishing apparatus. Ensure that all equipment or goods are received
correctly and in good condition. Must be able to complete register for
equipment received and issued. Execute all ad hoc store tasks as issued by
order.
ENQUIRIES : Maj A.V. Teka or WO2 M.M. Motjopi Tel No: (012) 674 6125/6221
APPLICATIONS : Department Defence, South African Military Health Service, Human Resource
Service Department, Military Health Training Formation, Private Bag X1022,
Thaba Tshwane 0143 or hand deliver to Military Health Training Formation 09
Voortrekker Road, Thaba Tshwane, Pretoria or Andisa.Teka@dod.mil.za
28
POST 24/42 : VETTING SESSION WORKERS (FREELANCERS) REF NO: DI/22/24/26/01
(X5 POSTS)
Two (2) years fixed contract.
SALARY : R214.92 per hour and does not exceed 180 hours per month.
CENTRE : Defence Intelligence Division, Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with Diploma / Advance
Certificate / National Diploma/ (NQF Level 6) specialising in faculty of
humanities (Social sciences, Psychology, Counselling, Investigation, Social
Worker, Criminology and/or other relevant qualification/certificates). A
minimum of 1 year experience in Administration /Client interaction and/or 1
year experience in Field Investigation or Evaluation. Valid driving license and
own vehicle is essential. Special requirements (skills needed): Computer
literacy, communication skills (Good verbal and written), report writing skills,
listening skills and interpersonal relations skills. Excellent analytical thinking,
problem solving and reasoning ability. Knowledge and course of Vetting
Fieldwork. Ability to capture data, operate computer and collect information.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework of public service.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible to perform the following duties:
Planning and preparation of files and other relevant administration.
Documentary enquires, gather information and conduct vetting investigation
through interviews. Writing reports based on documentary enquiries and
interviews. Compile and submit reports to Director vetting management on
required vetting files and reports completed on a regular basis. Provide inputs
for the development and implementation of policies, guidelines, norms and
standards in vetting investigation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T.C. Nkopane Tel No: (012) 315-0508
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Defence Intelligence Division, Private Bag X367,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered at Liberty Building 278 Madiba Street, Pretoria
Central or email to sessionworkers@dil.mil.za
NOTE : Kilometres claims will be reimbursed according to inline tariffs. First three (3)
months is training and will be compensated by R8 174.75 of stipend.
29
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY
The Department of Electricity and Energy (DEE) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action employer and
it is its intention to promote representativity in the Public Sector through the filling of this post(s).
Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity are encouraged to apply,
particularly persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An
indication of such, in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : Submit your completed application using one of the following methods, post:
The Director-General, Department of Electricity and Energy, Private Bag X96,
Pretoria, 0001, or hand deliver at Matimba House Building 192 Visagie Street
(Corner Paul Kruger & Visagie Street), Pretoria, or email directly to the email
address dedicated to a specific post. General enquiries may be brought to the
attention of Ms M Palare Tel No: (012) 406 7426.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 at 16h00 (Walk-in) 23h59 (online). N.B: It is the sole responsibility
of an applicant to ensure that their application reaches the Department on or
before the set deadline.
NOTE : Applicants are informed to submit their application(s) by completing the 2021
version of the Z83 form quoting the relevant reference number and a
comprehensive CV only. The CV must indicate qualifications, experience “if
any” and the period thereof. The 2021 version of the Z83 form is obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za or www.gov.za/documents. It is important to ensure that the
Z83 is completed in full. This means that all fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. It is acceptable under section E, F, G, for
applicants to indicate “refer to CV or see attached” due to the limited space
provided on the Z83 form. However, the question relating to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered, but if you are already
in Public Service just indicate “N/A”. Please initial the form and sign the
declaration. Email application(s) must strictly be submitted as one (1) PDF
document or attachment (i.e. Z83 and CV scanned as one PDF document). It
is also important to indicate the correct job title and the reference number of
the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address
associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be
accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Applications
submitted using the incorrect application form (old Z83) will not be considered.
Each advertised post must be accompanied by its own application for
employment. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview. Applicants in possession of foreign qualifications must submit an
evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) if
shortlisted. The Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants
who do not comply with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well
as applications received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the
requested documents will result in the application not being considered. If you
have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All applicants for SMS posts will be also
subjected to a technical exercise and an interview. Following the interview and
technical exercise, then the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment using the mandated
DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. No SMS post appointment shall
be implemented without the relevant candidate producing the pre-entry
certificate for SMS (Nyukela) obtainable from www.thensg.gov.za . Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used solely for the administration of the recruitment process
or possible employment and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s) at any stage of the
30
recruitment process. The successful candidate will be expected to enter into a
performance agreement within three (3) months from the date of appointment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/43 : NUCLEAR TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST REF NO: DEE2026/009
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Master of Science or Master of Engineering specializing in
Nuclear Power NQF level 9 recognised by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA), plus the pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela). Plus 10
years’ experience in nuclear industry, particularly nuclear technology.
Knowledge of: Nuclear Technology, Nuclear policy legislation, nuclear energy
in general, Government processes Skills: Communication Skills at junior
management level, should be able to organize and control meetings,
workshops, good writing and interpersonal skills. Ability to communicate at all
levels, Financial Management, Presentation Skills and Computer literacy.
Thinking Demand: Analytical thinking and information evaluation.
DUTIES : Provide advice on the following: Strategic issues pertaining to all matters
related to technology and related programmes, Mentor DEE officials in all
matters related to nuclear technology and related programmes, Conduct
technical assessments/investigations in nuclear technology.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Katse Maphoto at 072 832 1145
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies1@dee.gov.za
NOTE : Females from all races, Indians, Coloured and White are encouraged to apply.
POST 24/44 : SPECIALIST: ENERGY GENERATION REF NO: DEE2026/010 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant post graduate qualification in Energy Studies / Engineering /
Electrical, Power Systems Management at NQF Level 8 recognised by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA), plus the pre-entry certificate for
SMS (Nyukela). Minimum of 5 years’ research experience at MMS level.
Knowledge of: Knowledge of Energy Legislation and policy, the energy industry
Energy regulatory oversight, Energy technology, safety and non-proliferation,
Financial Management, Project Management, Research, Public Service
Knowledge and understanding of DEE policies, functions, projects, etc.
Strategic planning Government policies. Skills: Problem Solving,
Communication (Verbal, written, liaison), Influencing skills, Negotiation skills,
Proven management, skills Management & Organisation skills, Advanced
Analytical skills, Good interpersonal relations at all levels, Conflict
Management skills, Creativity and innovation, Numerical Organising and
coordinating, Facilitation and implementation Financial Management,
Negotiation and consultation skills, Problem solving and analysis, Strategic
capability and leadership Change Management. Thinking Demands:
Creative/Innovative thinker, Logical, Objective, Accurate and Diplomatic.
DUTIES : Provide technical support with processes for the development and
maintenance government’s overarching SOC Policy Framework for the SOC(s)
and affiliates in the Energy Complex. Provide technical support with processes
to facilitate the alignment of Shareholder Compacts for the SOC(s) in the
Energy Complex. Conduct research to enhance the business operations and
performance of the Energy Complex. Ensure the effective, efficient and
economical utilisation of resources allocated to research and modelling
projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Kubeshnie Bhugwandin Tel No: (012) 406 7614
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies1@dee.gov.za
NOTE : Females from all races, Indians, Coloured and White are encouraged to apply.
POST 24/45 : SPECIALIST: ENERGY DISTRIBUTION REF NO: DEE2026/011
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant post graduate qualification in Energy Studies/Engineering/
Electrical, Power Systems Management at NQF Level 8 recognised by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA), plus the pre-entry certificate for
31
SMS (Nyukela). Minimum of 5 years’ research experience at MMS level.
Knowledge of: Knowledge of Energy Legislation and policy, the energy industry
Energy regulatory oversight, Energy technology, safety and non-proliferation,
Financial Management, Project Management, Research, Public Service
Knowledge and understanding of DEE policies, functions, projects, etc.
Strategic planning Government policies. Skills: Problem Solving,
Communication (Verbal, written, liaison), Influencing skills, Negotiation skills,
Proven management, skills Management & Organisation skills, Advanced
Analytical skills, Good interpersonal relations at all levels, Conflict
Management skills, Creativity and innovation, Numerical Organising and
coordinating, Facilitation and implementation Financial Management,
Negotiation and consultation skills, Problem solving and analysis, Strategic
capability and leadership Change Management. Thinking Demands:
Creative/Innovative thinker, Logical, Objective, Accurate, Diplomatic Energy
Legislation and policy, the energy industry Energy regulatory oversight, Energy
technology, safety and non-proliferation, Financial Management, Project
Management, Research, Public Service Knowledge and understanding of DEE
policies, functions, projects, etc. Strategic planning Government policies.
DUTIES : Provide technical support with processes for the development and
maintenance government’s overarching SOC Policy Framework for the SOC(s)
and affiliates in the Energy Complex. Provide technical support with processes
to facilitate the alignment of Shareholder Compacts for the SOC(s) in the
Energy Complex. Conduct research to enhance the business operations and
performance of the Energy Complex. Ensure the effective, efficient and
economical utilisation of resources allocated to research and modelling
projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Kubeshnie Bhugwandin Tel No: (012) 406 7614
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies2@dee.gov.za
NOTE : Females from all races, Indians, Coloured and White are encouraged to apply.
POST 24/46 : SPECIALIST: ENERGY TRANSMISSION REF NO: DEE2026/012
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant post graduate qualification in Energy Studies/Engineering/
Electrical, Power Systems Management at NQF Level 8 recognised by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA), plus the pre-entry certificate for
SMS (Nyukela). Minimum of 5 years’ research experience at MMS level.
Knowledge of: Knowledge of Energy Legislation and policy, the energy industry
Energy regulatory oversight, Energy technology, safety and non-proliferation,
Financial Management, Project Management, Research, Public Service
Knowledge and understanding of DEE policies, functions, projects, etc.
Strategic planning Government policies. Skills: Problem Solving,
Communication (Verbal, written, liaison), Influencing skills, Negotiation skills,
Proven management, skills Management & Organisation skills, Advanced
Analytical skills, Good interpersonal relations at all levels, Conflict
Management skills, Creativity and innovation, Numerical Organising and
coordinating, Facilitation and implementation Financial Management,
Negotiation and consultation skills, Problem solving and analysis, Strategic
capability and leadership Change Management. Thinking Demands:
Creative/Innovative thinker, Logical, Objective, Accurate, Diplomatic.
DUTIES : Provide technical support with processes for the development and
maintenance government’s overarching SOC Policy Framework for the SOC(s)
and affiliates in the Energy Complex. Provide technical support with processes
to facilitate the alignment of Shareholder Compacts for the SOC(s) in the
Energy Complex. Conduct research to enhance the business operations and
performance of the Energy Complex. Ensure the effective, efficient and
economical utilisation of resources allocated to research and modelling
projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Kubeshnie Bhugwandin Tel No: (012) 406 7614
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies3@dee.gov.za
32
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one attachment. Zipped, IMG and JPEG
documents will not be accepted. indicate the correct job title and the reference
number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email
address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
requirements for application of Senior Management Services (SMS) include
the successful completion of an SMS Pre-entry programme (Nyukela) as
endorsed by the National School Government (NSG). Prior to appointment, a
candidate should therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-
Entry Certificate and have completed the course. The cost for Nyukela is at the
applicant’s own expense. The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to
a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and
interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric
assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences,
emotional intelligence, and integrity. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your information will be used soley for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate
will be expected to sign a performance agreement. The Department is an equal
33
opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the
Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s)
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 24/47 : DIRECTOR: EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS REF NO: HR4/26/07/01HO
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA) in Human Resources Management / Employment Relations/
Labour Relations/ Labour Law/ Public Administration/ LLB. A valid driver’s
licence. Five (5) years’ experience at a middle /senior Managerial level in
Employment Relations/Labour Relations. Knowledge: Labour Relation Act,
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public Service Act, Employment Equity
Act, Human Resources Management Policies, Collective bargaining
agreements, CCMA Regulations, procedures and guidelines, Public Service
Regulations, Public Service Commission rules, Public Service Co-ordination
Bargaining Council’s Resolution, Public Finance Management Act. Skills:
Strategic Capability and Leadership, People Management and Empowerment,
Programme and Project Management, Financial Management, Change
Management, Facilitation, Service Delivery Innovation (SDI), Client Orientation
and Customer Focus, Communication, Knowledge Management, Planning and
Organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem Solving and Analysis,
Interviewing listening and observation, Presentation.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction in promoting Employment Relations according to
Public Service Act. Manage and control systems for finalization of all
grievances and complaints received. Manage finalization of all misconduct
cases within the Department. Manage and Monitor representation of the
Department in all disputes referred to PSCBC, CCMA and GPSSBC. Oversee
that the Department is properly represented in all cases and Labour Appeal
Court. Oversee a conducive environment for bargaining with organized labour
is created through the Departmental Bargaining Chamber (DBC).
ENQUIRIES : Ms MM Matyila Tel No: (012) 309 4026
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email Jobs-
HQ29@labour.gov.za
POST 24/48 : SENIOR SPECIALIST: ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
REF NO HR4/26/07/02HO
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA) in Mechanical Engineering /Electrical Engineering. A Valid
driver’s license. Five (5) years’ experience at the middle/senior Managerial
level in Occupational Health and Safety Services. Knowledge: Departmental
policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Act and
Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations, COIDA, UIA, UI Contribution Act,
Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act. Skills: Strategic Capability
and Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Programme and
Project Management, Financial Management, Change Management, Service
Delivery Innovation (SDI), Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication, Knowledge Management, Planning and organizing, Computer
literacy, Interpersonal Problem solving and Analysis, Interviewing, listening and
observation, Presentation.
DUTIES : Develop and implement strategies, Policies and Guidelines on Electrical and
Mechanical Engineering for the Department of Employment and Labour.
Provide Guidance and participate in the conducting of complex inspections for
Electrical and Mechanical as per OHS prescripts. Conduct technical research
on latest trends of Occupational Health and Safety in terms of Electrical and
Mechanical Engineering. Provide support for enforcement action, including
preparation of reports for legal proceedings. Oversee the registration of
Electrical and Mechanical regulations entities. Manage the resources and
monitor performance of staff within the Directorate.
34
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Ruiters Tel No: (012) 309 4407
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Email: Jobs-
HQ28@labour.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/49 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR: EMPLOYER AUDIT REF NO: HR4/4/1/123
SALARY R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: East London
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant tertiary qualification in Labour Relations Manager/
BCOM Law/ LLB/ Internal Auditing. Two (2) years Supervisor experience. Two
(2) years functional experience in Auditing / Financial Management. A valid
Driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Batho
Pele Principles, Public Service Act and Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations,
COIDA, UIA, PFMA, BCEA, SDLA, LRA, UI Contribution Act, Skills
Development Act, Employment Equity Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and
Organising, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Interviewing,
listening and observation, Communication Written and Verbal, Innovative,
Analytical, Research, Project management.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation of UIA and COIDA strategy programs. Implement
the systems that provide expert advice on sector specific UIA & COIDA matters.
Control the process that monitor and evaluate impact of UIA & COIDA
programs. Monitor the implementation of Advocacy Campaigns on COIDA
regularly and when there are amendments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Nkanjeni Tel No: (043) 701 3041/48
APPLICATIONS : Acting Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 9005, East London,
5201 Or hand deliver at No.3 Hill Street, East London. Email: Jobs-
EC2@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Coloured Males, Coloured Females, Indian Males, Indian Females, White
Males, White Females are encouraged to apply.
POST 24/50 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS REF NO:
HR4/26/07/03HO
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF6)/ undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Human Resources Management/ Labour Relations/ LLB. Valid
driver’s license. Four (4) years’ experience of which two (2) years at
Supervisory level (Senior Admin Officer/ Practitioner) and two (2) years
functional experience in Employment Relations services. Knowledge: Labour
Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public Service Act,
Employment Equity Act, Public Service Regulations, Human Resource
Management Policies, Collective bargaining agreements, Public Service
Commission, Public Service Co-ordination Bargaining Council’s Resolution,
Policy/ guideline formulation, Public Finance Management Act. Skills:
Management, Problem solving, Organization, Leadership, Interpretation of
legislation/ policies, Budgeting/ Financial, Negotiation, Verbal/ written
communication, Presentation.
DUTIES : Finalize all grievances and complaints received from employees in the
department. Process and finalize all misconduct cases in the department.
Coordinate and provide support in terms of representing the Department in all
disputes referred to the Public Service Sectoral Bargaining Council and the
Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration. Develop and manage
information and records of all activities in the employment relations section.
Coordinate the finalization of all the disciplinary cases in the department.
Manage resources of the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Maraba Tel No: (012) 309 4819
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ29@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
NOTE : EE targets-priority will be given to Coloured male and female, Indian males and
White males and females.
35
POST 24/51 : SENIOR MEDIA PRODUCTION OFFICER (GRAPHIC DESIGNER) REF
NO:HR4/26/07/04HO
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by South African Qualification
Authority in Graphic Design / Visual Communication/ Graphic &
Communication Design / Computer-based Graphic Development / Creative
Brand Communication / Design and Studio Art / Communication Design.
Minimum of two (2) years functional experience as Graphic Designer in the
Graphic Design Field. Knowledge: Specific knowledge of Apple Mac Platform
including the software packages Adobe creative Cloud, illustrator, InDesign,
Photoshop, Lightroom and the Adobe Express. PC platform and all Microsoft
Office software (Outlook, word, Excel and PowerPoint), Photography,
photographic equipment and photo retouching, Printing processes and
requirements, public service regulations, Basic knowledge in motion graphics.
Skills: Design and layout skills, Strategic and capability design
conceptualization, adaptive to change (software and organization,
machineries), Services delivery innovation, Excellent time management (100%
adherence to deadlines), Great interpersonal Skills, Client orientation and
customer focus, program and project management, Effective communication
(verbal and written) and decision-making skills, problem-solving and analytical
abilities, interpersonal, negotiation, technical, and commercial skills.
DUTIES : Conduct and use system to ensure efficient production of publicity material.
Design and layout of publicity material for the Department. Coordinate the
quotations process for the publications. Prepare artwork for printing. Execute
the photography for in-house Departmental event.
ENQUIRIES : Mr I Motsepe at (071) 221 6202
APPLICATIONS : Email: Jobs-HQ26@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE target-Priority will be given to African Males, Coloureds Males, Indians
Males, Indian Females, and White Males and Females.
POST 24/52 : SENIOR STATUTORY SERVICE OFFICER REF NO: HR 4/4/1/124
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: East London
REQUIREMENTS : BPROC/ BCOM Law/ LLB. One (1) year experience in the legal/compliance
environment. A valid Driver’s licence. Knowledge: Public service transformation
and management issues, Public Service Act and Regulations, Treasury
Regulations, Departmental policies and procedures, Corporate governance,
Skills Development Act, COIDA, UIA, BCEA, SDLA, LRA, UI Contribution Act,
Employment Equity Act, Employment Services Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning
and organising, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem Solving,
Interviewing, Presentation, Innovative, Analytical, Written and Verbal
Communication.
DUTIES : To plan and independently administer work referred to Statutory Services for
enforcement of non- compliance under employment law. Assist the ASD
Statutory Services in the enforcement processed for IES. Assist in the strategy
for Statutory Services. Assist in facilitating the implementation of capacity
development programmes for the inspectors in the Provinces. Compile stats
for the unit
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Nkanjeni Tel No: (043) 701 3041/48
APPLICATIONS : ACTING Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9005, East
London, 5201 Or hand deliver at No.3 Hill Street, East London. Email: Jobs-
EC2@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, White Males, White Females, Coloured Males, Coloured
Females, Indian Males, Indian Females are encouraged to apply.
POST 24/53 : PRACTITIONER ACCOUNTS AND BOOKING OFFICER REF NO:
HR4/4/1/125
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: East London
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant tertiary qualification in Accounting and/or
Management Accounting or BCOM with Accounting and/or Management
Accounting as major subjects. One (1) year functional experience. In Finance
36
Management Services. A valid Driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental
policies and procedures, PFMA Project Management, Intermediate Human
Resources Development, Public Service Regulations Skills: Leadership
Facilitation, Computer literacy, Presentation, Analytical, Communication
Written and Verbal.
DUTIES : Render the air travel, hotel accommodation and short term rentals with the
Province. Provide support on the allocation, utilization and booking of cars in
the Province. Consolidate information of invoices received and prepare
payment to service provider. Coordinate information to ensure payment of fines
to relevant officials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MM Nohesi Tel No: (043) 701 3029
APPLICATIONS : Acting Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9005, East London,
5201 Or hand deliver at No.3 Hill Street, East London. Email: Jobs-
EC2@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, White Males, White Females, Coloured Males, Coloured
Females, Indian Males, Indian Females are encouraged to apply.
POST 24/54 : PERSONNEL OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/7/76
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/Grade 12/Senior Certificate plus Certificate in Human Resource
Management field. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures. HR
related systems (PERSAL). Batho Pele Principles. Employment Equity Act.
Public Service Regulations. Skills: Computer Literacy. Analytical.
Communication. Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Facilitate and provide administrative support for service benefit of employees.
Provide support to the recruitment and selection processes. Capture and
update all personal data on PERSAL system. Attend to client’s enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Rev MG Sibanyoni Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 or
hand deliver at Labour Building, Corner Hofmeyer Avenue and Beatty Street,
Emalahleni, 1035. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-
POHRM@labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Males, Indian Females, White Males,
White Females and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
37
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria: Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-
delivered to: Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr
Soutpansberg and Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria, or can be emailed to
the respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject
email.
Cape Town: Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of
Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, Private Bag X4390, Cape Town, 8000
or hand-deliver to No 63 Strand Street, Cape Town, or can be emailed to the
respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
CLOSING DATE : 27 July 2026, 16:00
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Management
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a successful completion
of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National
School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment. The course is available at
the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can
be obtained by following the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. Furthermore, all shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Following the interview and the technical exercise, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. The person appointed to
this position will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of
performance agreement and employment contract. The Department reserves
the right not to make an appointment. By submitting the employment
application form, you agree and consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your
personal information which you provide to the DFFE to being processed by the
department and its employees, agents, Cabinet committees, and
subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with the POPIA of
2013. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing
date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
38
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/55 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION & COORDINATION REF NO:
OC15/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Public Management/ Office Management or
relevant equivalent qualification. 5 years’ experience in Admin or relevant field
of which three (3) years should be at an entry/junior managerial level (Assistant
Director or equivalent) The incumbent must knowledge of the following; good
command of written and oral English and any other official language. Strategic
coordination/ planning. Business planning. Report/professional writing. Policy
development. Organisation performance management. Risk management.
Audit procedures. Research methodologies and presentation. Project
management. Accessing and operating the computerized post tracking system.
Formats and routes of documentation throughout the department. Quality
Control of documents. EDMS. The hierarchy and management structure of the
department. Different specialised fields of the branches and chief directorates
expertise and responsibility. Policies, legislation and procedures.
Administration. Public Service and Departmental procedures and prescripts
Planning and performance management legislation. Skills and attributes;
Organising skills, Facilitation skills, Communication skills, Computer literacy,
Technical writing skills. Ability to communicate with ministries, senior
management officials and the public in a professional manner. Ability to work
individually and in a team. Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work with
difficult persons and to resolve conflict. Sense of responsibility and loyalty.
Objectiveness. Integrity. Service orientated. Self-supervision. Highly
developed sense of honesty. Protect the confidentiality of documents.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible to provide effective document Management.
Monitor workflows received by the Branch. Monitor and follow up on finalization
of outstanding DG /Ministerial referrals Coordinate the finalization of Branch
Parliamentary Questions. Ensure that all documents are quality controlled
before submitted to branch administrator. Keep an up-to-date record of all
decisions taken. Schedule branch meetings. Provide secretariat services to the
branch meeting. Provide minutes of the meetings. Develop an action list for
decisions and monitor implementation. Monitor branch expenditure and raise
flags with managers. Coordinate finalisation of the branch inputs to the
Departmental Strategic plan. Consolidate CD inputs to develop branch APP.
Finalise the branch APP within the stipulated timeframe. Ensure alignment of
CD APP. Monitor implementation of branch Business Plan. Facilitate the
submission of CD verification statements. Monitor branch compliance with
PMDS. Ensure that all CD Performance Agreements are signed and copies
filed. Support the implementation of the Performance Plans. Ensure branch
compliance with the security clearance. Co-ordinate branch participation in
departmental meetings and forums. Support the implementation of decisions
of departmental meeting. Coordinate branch response to requests received.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Mangcu at (083) 652 5142, E-mail: cmangcu@dffe.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : OC15-2026@dffe.gov.za
POST 24/56 : CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER GRADE A: EMI CAPACITY
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: RCSM21/2026
This is a re-advert, applicants who have previously applied are encouraged to
re-apply.
SALARY : R636 978 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Four (4) year Degree (NQF8) in Natural or Environmental Sciences or
equivalent qualification within the related field, plus six (6) years’ post
qualification experience in the relevant field. Knowledge and experience in the
design, development, implementation, presentation, monitoring and evaluation
of compliance and enforcement capacity-building programmes. Ability to
interact with and provide assistance to a wide range of stakeholders as well as
an understanding of intergovernmental relations and co-operative governance.
Excellent written, verbal and visual communication skills, including the ability
to develop training curriculum. Sound knowledge of the legislative framework
related to the Environmental Management Inspectorate (EMI) in South Africa.
39
Strategic, problem-solving and organisational skills. Knowledge in general
government administrative, financial and procurement procedures and
processes. Administrative and logistical skills, including project management,
government procurement, budgetary monitoring and events management.
Customer responsiveness with a focus on skills and capacity development
objectives. Be willing to travel and in possession of a valid driver’s license.
Ability to work independently, and as part of a team. Computer literate and
meticulous.
DUTIES : To plan, implement, facilitate and participate in the national environmental
compliance and enforcement (basic and specialised) capacity-building
programme for Environmental Management Inspectors; as well as other
relevant regulatory authorities, including South African Revenue Service:
Customs (SARS), South African Police Service (SAPS), National Prosecuting
Authority (NPA) and the Border Management Authority (BMA) etc. Administer
and facilitate venue procurement oversight, presenter logistics, assessments,
curriculum development and review and record keeping. Implement a
monitoring and evaluation process in respect of the national compliance and
enforcement programme. Provide capacity development support to operational
projects of national, provincial and municipal Environmental Management
Inspectors and other compliance and enforcement role-players. Liaise and
collaborate with international and domestic environmental authorities and
donors as well as tertiary education institutions, NGOs and other relevant
stakeholders on compliance and enforcement capacity-development
initiatives. Develop appropriate training curriculum to be delivered through the
national environmental compliance and enforcement capacity-building
programme. Monitor the procurement of venues and initiate and administer
other related goods and services (including training-related presenters,
equipment, publications etc.) required to support the delivery of environmental
compliance and enforcement capacity development and operational initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Jardine Tel No: (012) 399 9497
APPLICATIONS : RCSM21-2026@dffe.gov.za
40
ANNEXURE I
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE (GTAC)
The GTAC is an equal-opportunity employer and encourages applications from women and people with
disabilities. Our buildings are accessible to people with disabilities and reasonable accommodation is
provided for persons with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : Only online applications will be accepted. Please register, or if you are already
registered, sign in and apply for this position on the GTAC eRecruitment
website https://erecruitment.gtac.gov.za/erecruitment/
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 at 12h00 pm
NOTE : Applications not accompanied by a comprehensive CV and a fully completed
Z83 form will not be considered. Only South African Citizens, and Permanent
Residents need to apply as per PSR 2016. Applications should be
accompanied by a duly completed and signed Z83 form (obtainable from any
Public Service department). The post title and reference number must be
clearly indicated on the Z83 form. A recent comprehensive CV should be
submitted. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will
be required to be submitted to HR on or before the day of the interview from
shortlisted candidates. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to security vetting to confirm
employment, personnel suitability checks and undergo an SMS competency
assessment prior to the interview. They must make themselves available for a
panel interview on the date determined by GTAC. Late applications, and those
not meeting the requirements, will not be considered. Should you not receive
feedback from GTAC within 2 months of the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. GTAC reserves the right to fill or not fill the advertised
post. Preference will be given according to EE and Gender target.
OTHER POST
POST 24/57 : GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT SECRETARIAT REF NO: G09/2026
Term: Permanent
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 08), plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant 3-year National Diploma (NQF 6) qualification in Public
Administration and/or Office Administration or related qualification in fields of
Corporate Governance. A minimum of 3 - 5 years’ experience in secretariat,
governance, office administration or operational support. Experience in
coordinating administrative processes, records management, meeting and
event logistics, contract administration and related internal submissions.
Experience in providing support within a governance, compliance,
performance reporting or project-coordination environment will be an
advantage. Experience in the Public Service or a public-sector environment.
DUTIES : Secretariat support to the Governance Committees: Schedule and administer
arrangements for the GTAC’s governance structures (MANCO, OMM and Risk
Management Committee) meetings. Provide administrative support to
Committee meetings including: Preparation of agendas and information packs.
Drafting of general correspondence and communications sourcing and/or
preparation and circulation of documents as requested. Provide secretariat
support services to GTAC governance structures (MANCO, OMM and Risk
Management Committee) meetings including: Record, prepare and circulate
minutes of discussion and decisions. Provide quality assurance and analysis
of action minutes to track progress of delivery, quality assurance of governance
dashboards as part of support to ERM task team. Assist with the
communication of Committee decisions and requests to relevant staff, facilitate
replies to requests, and monitor and report on the implementation of decisions.
Maintain formal Committee records for audit purposes. Governance and
Compliance framework administrative support: Provide administrative support
on the development, facilitation and monitoring the implementation of the
GTAC governance framework including the: GTAC constitution, GTAC
delegation of authority and delegations register, GTAC operational policies and
policies register, GTAC audit schedule, GTAC statutory and regulatory
41
reporting schedule, GTAC records keeping policy, records management and
PAIA compliance, GTAC agreements risk management, GTAC fraud and
corruption prevention policy and plan, GTAC risk management plan and risk
register. Coordinate approvals, register GTAC operational policies, and
maintain and update the GTAC Policies Register. Maintain, monitor and report
on the implementation of and compliance to the GTAC Delegation of Authority.
Implement and maintain filing and document management plan for GTAC
records. Management of information for governance, performance and
systems administrative support: Provide administrative support on the
establishment and management of the governance frameworks and internal
controls for the collation, preparation and communication of resources
including: policies and procedures, business processes, guidelines and
templates, any other information supporting the management of governance
information. Provide administrative support on the implementation, compliance
and relevance of the KM frameworks and internal controls including the:
lodging of documents on the GTAC policy management system. Develop
inputs for information guidelines on governance and compliance policies.
GTAC Quality Assurance coordination and facilitation: Provide overall quality
assurance of all governance related. Coordinate and provide leadership on the
inter-linkages between OMM, RMC and MANCO correspondence and action
plans. Any other area of related quality assurance support as required. Unit
Administration and Operational Support: Coordinate the Unit’s human capital,
financial, contractual and general administrative processes, including
timesheets, disbursements, contract administration, records management,
internal submissions, meeting and event logistics, travel arrangements and
related administrative support. Support the identification, monitoring and
reporting of operational risks affecting Unit performance, including follow-up on
agreed mitigation actions. Provide administrative and coordination support to
partnerships and donor-funded projects, including stakeholder engagements,
project documentation, reporting and records management. Performance,
Statutory Reporting and Client Service Support: Provide administrative
coordination, verification and quality assurance support for organisational
performance information and statutory reporting processes, including EQPRS,
quarterly reports and Ministerial reports. Support the administration and
analysis of client satisfaction surveys and the monitoring of service-
improvement actions arising from stakeholder feedback.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane at 066 2507072 Email: Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
42
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Gert Sibande TVET College)
(Ekurhuleni East TVET College)
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/58 : SENIOR MIS OFFICER REF NO: GSC23/2026
(Permanent)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Central Office (Standerton)
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree/National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Information Management/Data
management or Relative Qualification recognised by SAQA, 2-3 years’ Work
Experience in Data Management / TVET MIS environment or Relative
Experience. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of office
administration, Knowledge of Public Service legislations and policies,
Knowledge and understanding of the TVET/CET Colleges including knowledge
of TVETMIS system, annual reporting requirements by the Higher Education
understanding, application and interpretation of information management.
Knowledge, understanding, application and interpreting of office management,
ITS System, data management, compiling and interpretation of results
statistics. Computer literacy in MS Office software (word, excel, power point
and outlook). Typing skills and effective office administrative. Skills: skills
including project management skills. Sound communication {verbal and
written} skills as well as good interpersonal relations. Ability to work
independently and within a team. Good organisational, co-ordination and
planning skills.
DUTIES : Ensure the overall supervision and proper management of TVET MIS,
capturing and data extraction for the college. Ensure the overall supervision,
coordination, compilation and submission of MIS reports and statics. Ensure
the overall supervision and verification of inputs captured on ITS system and
other related system. Ensure the overall supervision and administration of all
academic and student related system. Ensure the overall supervision and
maintenance of MIS licenses are renewed before expiry dates. Supervise
human, physical, financial resource and perform other related duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
APPLICATIONS : The Acting Human Resource Manager; Gert Sibande TVET College; P. O. Box
3475; Standerton, 2430, email: applications@gscollege.edu.za or Hand
delivered to: 18a Beyers Naude Street, Standerton, 2430.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
NOTE : Gert Sibande TVET College is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in respect of race,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose
transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representative will receive
preference. Applicants must submit a fully completed and officially signed Z83
form and a comprehensive CV when applying for a post, at least three
contactable work-related references. Candidates will be contacted to submit
originally certified copies of all qualification before an interview, including
academic records, ID document and valid driver’s licence not older than 6
months, if drivers licence is required in terms of the requirements of the post
Application Z83 form is available on our website, www.gscollege.edu.za or
DPSA website Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered No faxed or emailed applications will be
accepted Applicants should submit separate Z83 and CV where more than one
post is applied for Selected candidates will be subjected to vetting process and
personnel suitability check in terms of minimum information security standard
The College reserves the right to verify any information received in applications
Late and incomplete applications will not be considered Submission of
fraudulent documentation and canvassing or College staff will immediately
disqualify the candidate Should you not receive any response from us within
60 days after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful Post reference number should be indicated on the application
The College reserves the right to withdraw any position at any time all
shortlisted candidate, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessment. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
43
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 (at 13h00 sharp), all applications received after the closing date
and time will not be entertained Apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments, please.
POST 24/59 : SENIOR RISK MANAGEMENT OFFICER REF NO: GSC24/2026
(Permanent)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Central office (Standerton)
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree/National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Risk Management or Internal
Audit or Relative qualification recognise by SAQA, 2-3 years’ Work experience
in Risk, Fraud, Ethics and Integrity Management or Related Environment. A
valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of the relevant Prescript,
legislation and Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of the Risk Fraud,
Ethics and Integrity Management. Skills: Planning and organizing,
communication (good verbal and written), computer literacy, Flexibility,
Financial Management, report writing, teamwork.
DUTIES : Ensure overall supervision and facilitate the provision of risk management
services. Ensure overall supervision and facilitate the provision of fraud and
anticorruption services. Ensure overall supervision and facilitate the provision
of ethics and integrity management services. Ensure overall supervision and
facilitate risk, fraud, ethics and integrity management awareness and training.
Supervise human, physical and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
APPLICATIONS : The Acting Human Resource Manager; Gert Sibande TVET College; P. O. Box
3475; Standerton, 2430, email: applications@gscollege.edu.za or Hand
delivered to: 18a Beyers Naude Street, Standerton, 2430.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
NOTE : Gert Sibande TVET College is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in respect of race,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose
transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representative will receive
preference. Applicants must submit a fully completed and officially signed Z83
form and a comprehensive CV when applying for a post, at least three
contactable work-related references. Candidates will be contacted to submit
originally certified copies of all qualification before an interview, including
academic records, ID document and valid driver’s licence not older than 6
months, if drivers licence is required in terms of the requirements of the post
Application Z83 form is available on our website, www.gscollege.edu.za or
DPSA website Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered No faxed or emailed applications will be
accepted Applicants should submit separate Z83 and CV where more than one
post is applied for Selected candidates will be subjected to vetting process and
personnel suitability check in terms of minimum information security standard
The College reserves the right to verify any information received in applications
Late and incomplete applications will not be considered Submission of
fraudulent documentation and canvassing or College staff will immediately
disqualify the candidate Should you not receive any response from us within
60 days after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful Post reference number should be indicated on the application
The College reserves the right to withdraw any position at any time all
shortlisted candidate, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessment. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 (at 13h00 sharp), all applications received after the closing date
and time will not be entertained Apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments, please.
POST 24/60 : SENIOR PROVISIONING OFFICER: SUPPY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF
NO: GSC25/2026
(Permanent)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Central office (Standerton)
44
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree/National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Supply Chain Management /
Logistics or Public management, 2-3 years’ Work experience in supply chain
or Assets Management or Relevant Environment. A valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge: Knowledge of BAS/LOGIS system, knowledge of assets disposal
procedure, knowledge and understating of legislative framework governing the
public services, knowledge of assets management, knowledge of supply chain
policies, knowledge of department of higher education mandate. Skills:
Planning and organizing, communication (good verbal and written), computer
literacy, Flexibility, customer care service, report writing, teamwork.
DUTIES : Render a bidding administration function for the college bid committees,
administer the procurement of goods and services through effective and
efficient demand management services, Provide and effective contract
management service to the college, administer logistical and disposal services,
ensure the provision of asset management services to the college,
Management of human and financial resources in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
APPLICATIONS : The Acting Human Resource Manager; Gert Sibande TVET College; P. O. Box
3475; Standerton, 2430, email: applications@gscollege.edu.za or Hand
delivered to: 18a Beyers Naude Street, Standerton, 2430.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
NOTE : Gert Sibande TVET College is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in respect of race,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose
transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representative will receive
preference. Applicants must submit a fully completed and officially signed Z83
form and a comprehensive CV when applying for a post, at least three
contactable work-related references. Candidates will be contacted to submit
originally certified copies of all qualification before an interview, including
academic records, ID document and valid driver’s licence not older than 6
months, if drivers licence is required in terms of the requirements of the post
Application Z83 form is available on our website, www.gscollege.edu.za or
DPSA website Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered No faxed or emailed applications will be
accepted Applicants should submit separate Z83 and CV where more than one
post is applied for Selected candidates will be subjected to vetting process and
personnel suitability check in terms of minimum information security standard
The College reserves the right to verify any information received in applications
Late and incomplete applications will not be considered Submission of
fraudulent documentation and canvassing or College staff will immediately
disqualify the candidate Should you not receive any response from us within
60 days after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful Post reference number should be indicated on the application
The College reserves the right to withdraw any position at any time all
shortlisted candidate, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessment. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 (at 13h00 sharp), all applications received after the closing date
and time will not be entertained Apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments, please.
POST 24/61 : SENIOR OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY OFFICER REF NO: EEC-
OHSP-01-01/2026
Permanent
Branch: Technical And Vocational Education and Training
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Ekurhuleni East TVET College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric / Level 4 Certificate. An appropriate National Diploma /
Degree in Safety Management qualification. 2 years’ experience in
occupational health and safety environment. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge of CET Act and COIDA. Occupational Health and Safety
Act 85 of 1993 and other applicable legislations and regulations. OHSAS
18001 Management system. Good written and verbal communication skills.
Good problem solving skills, Planning & organising, Research skills, Analytical
skills, Report writing skills and Presentation skills.
45
DUTIES : Participate in the development of policies, guidelines and strategies in line with
Health & Safety Act. Compile the emergency evacuation policy, management
plan and operational plan in relation to occupational health and safety. Compile
outstanding 18001 OHSAS documentation. Compile and submit reports to
internal stakeholders. Arrange and conduct health and safety trainings.
Conduct induction training to staff and students in relation to health and safety.
Promote Health and Safety working environment in all sites. Coordinate
occupational health and safety risk assessments by visiting all sites for
periodical inspection. Provide occupational health and safety related advice.
Comply with DHET and College policies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LK Boikhutso Tel No: (011) 730 6600 / Mr. T Matsaba Tel No: (011) 730
6600
APPLICATIONS : applications must be submitted to recruitment@eec.edu.za Applications
received after the closing date or faxed and emailed applications will not be
considered. Please forward your application, quoting the reference number to:
The Assistant Director: Human Resource Management & Development.
Ekurhuleni East TVET College, Sam Ngema Road, Kwa - Thema or Posted To
Private Bag X52, Springs 1560.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on Z83 Form obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the Internet at Www.Gov.Za/Documents and must
be accompanied by a recently updated comprehensive CV (with three
contactable references). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos will assist
in how to complete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in term s of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. The candidate(s) will be
required to sign an annual performance agreement, disclose his/her financial
interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship
verification, qualification/study verification, and previous employment
verification). Applications received after the closing date will not be considered.
“DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative
action. The appointment will be done in line with the approved Employment
Equity Plan. Persons with disability are encouraged to apply. It is our intention
to promote representativity in terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the
organisation. The successful candidate will be required to write a competency
assessment, sign an annual performance agreement, disclose his/her financial
interest and be subjected to security clearance. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 at 16H00.
POST 24/62 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER REF NO: EEC-CPOP-02-01/2026
Permanent
Branch: Technical and Vocational Education and Training
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Ekurhuleni East TVET College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric / Level 4 Certificate. 3-year National Diploma / Degree
qualification in Human Resource Management. 3-5 years’ relevant experience
in Human Resource environment. Computer Literacy. A valid driver’s licence.
Understanding and utilisation of the PERSAL system. Understating of
legislative framework governing the Public Services. Storage and retrieval
procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the work in
registry. Planning and organizing. Communication (Good verbal and written).
Flexibility. Customer care services. Report writing. Teamwork.
DUTIES : Supervise and Administer conditions of service and remuneration of
employees. Administer Pension, Housing Allowance and Long Service benefits
etc. Ensure that new employees complete contract of employment. Administer
46
employee leave. Ensure staff files are maintained (employment contracts,
details, leave forms etc). Administer all termination requests. Administer the
payroll for all employees and deal with all administration and queries relating
to the Pension Fund and Medical Aid. Submit reports to management as
required so that they are informed of HR related matters and can take informed
decisions. Ensure that all employees have completed a Declaration of Interest
and a Confidentiality Agreement. Administer staff records and ensure that
records are updated. Supervise and Administer Recruitment and Selection.
Develop a recruitment plan. Prepare adverts and obtain approval to advertise.
Co-ordinate shortlistings and Interviews. Receive request for advertisement of
vacant posts in the College. Advertise all vacancies in conjunction with
Managers. Ensure preparations for interviews (arrangements of interviews
such as dates, venues, and invitations to candidates). Facilitate the verification
of all applicants’ qualifications. Compile reports for approval by Principal to
appoint the suitable candidates on salary levels 2 to 8. Facilitate appointments
and placements. Administer recruitment database. Manage Records for the
College. Develop, review and ensure implementation of Records Management
processes and systems. Administer the opening, archiving, closing and filing
of files for new and existing employees. Ensure the updating of personnel files.
Ensure safekeeping of Human Resource Records. Administer all records
required for auditing purposes. Ensure the disposing of files in terms of the
applicable legislations and approved College policy. Administer all incoming
and outgoing correspondence. Administer a database of all incoming and
outgoing mail. Administer register of file index on (filing system). Adhere to
Department of Higher Education & Training and College policies and
procedures. Manage human, financial and other resources in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LK Boikhutso Tel No: (011) 730 6600 / Mr. T Matsaba Tel No: (011) 730
6600
APPLICATIONS : applications must be submitted to recruitment@eec.edu.za Applications
received after the closing date or faxed and emailed applications will not be
considered. Please forward your application, quoting the reference number to:
The Assistant Director: Human Resource Management & Development,
Ekurhuleni East TVET College, Sam Ngema Road, Kwa - Thema or Posted To
Private Bag X52, Springs, 1560.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on Z83 Form obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the Internet at Www.Gov.Za/Documents and must
be accompanied by a recently updated comprehensive CV (with three
contactable references). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos will assist
in how to complete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in term s of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. The candidate(s) will be
required to sign an annual performance agreement, disclose his/her financial
interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship
verification, qualification/study verification, and previous employment
verification). Applications received after the closing date will not be considered.
“DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative
action. The appointment will be done in line with the approved Employment
Equity Plan. Persons with disability are encouraged to apply. It is our intention
to promote representativity in terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the
organisation. The successful candidate will be required to write a competency
assessment, sign an annual performance agreement, disclose his/her financial
interest and be subjected to security clearance. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 at 16H00.
47
POST 24/63 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
EEC-HRDP-02-01/2026
Permanent
Branch: Technical And Vocational Education and Training
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Ekurhuleni East TVET College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Matric / Level 4 Certificate. 3-year National Diploma / Degree
qualification in Human Resource Management. 3-5 years’ relevant experience
in Human Resource environment. Computer Literacy. A valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge and understanding of PMDS and IQMS. Knowledge and
understanding of coordination and facilitation of training. Understating of
legislative framework governing the Public Services. Storage and retrieval
procedures in terms of the working environment. Coordination and facilitation
of training programmes. Planning and organizing. Communication (Good
verbal and written). Flexibility. Customer care services. Report writing.
Teamwork.
DUTIES : Ensure the implementation of training and development programmes. Conduct
training needs analysis for the College. Conduct inductions for newly appointed
employees in the College. Develop and implement training schedule. Contact
service providers and negotiate best options for the College. Market training
courses in the College. Plan and conduct skills audit for the College. Ensure
proper arrangement of training logistics such as dates, venues and ensure
submission of Portfolio of Evidence when required. Assess post - training
evaluation and surveys for all courses attended. Administer a database of all
trainings attended by employees and report thereof. Facilitate the development
of Work Skills Plan. Develop the annual Work Skills Plan (WSP) from data
collected. Establish Skill Development Committee (SDC). Communicate with
SDC, relevant staff and units regarding preparation and reporting of WSP.
Monitor the implementation of WSP. Report on the annual skills audit. Monitor
and process any ETDP Seta claims and documentation. Establish and
maintain a good relationship with ETDP Seta. Administer bursaries in the
College. Advertise bursaries according to College requirements. Administer
files for transfer of bursaries to and from other Colleges or institutions.
Administer bursaries and bursary adjudication process. Provide secretariat
support to /Human Resource Development Committee/ Bursary committee.
Conduct bursary audits and respond to queries related to bursaries and
compile quarterly reports for the bursaries. Ensure feedback of outcomes to
applicants and their managers. Provide professional guidance and support to
managers and staff regarding bursaries and career development. Ensure
maintenance of bursary database. Administer bursary payments. Administer
Performance Management Development System, Integrated Quality
Management System and coordinate Training for College. Develop and
implement an effective and efficient PMDS and IQMS for College staff. Conduct
workshops and provide assistance with the completion of PMDS and IQMS
documents. Administer, Half Yearly and Annual PMDS and IQMS Assessments
for College staff. Administer the PMDS and IQMS for the College. Determine
training interventions and compile training schedules for staff and submit to the
Principal for approval. Administer the delivery of external and in-house training
as and when requested. Administer the recruitment and selection of internship
and learnership programmes. Compile reports for approval of bursary
applications in the College. Manage database for all PMDS, IQMS and Training
matters. Administer Internship and learnership programmes. Facilitate the
development of job descriptions. Formulate the Employment Equity Plan for
the College. Manage human, financial and other resources in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LK Boikhutso Tel No: (011) 730 6600 / Mr. T Matsaba Tel No: (011) 730
6600
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted to recruitment@eec.edu.za Applications received after the
closing date or faxed and emailed applications will not be considered. Please
forward your application, quoting the reference number to: The Assistant
Director: Human Resource Management & Development, Ekurhuleni East
TVET College, Sam Ngema Road, Kwa - Thema or Posted To Private Bag X52,
Springs, 1560.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on Z83 Form obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the Internet at Www.Gov.Za/Documents and must
be accompanied by a recently updated comprehensive CV (with three
contactable references). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a detailed
48
Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos will assist
in how to complete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in term s of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. The candidate(s) will be
required to sign an annual performance agreement, disclose his/her financial
interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship
verification, qualification/study verification, and previous employment
verification). Applications received after the closing date will not be considered.
“DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative
action. The appointment will be done in line with the approved Employment
Equity Plan. Persons with disability are encouraged to apply. It is our intention
to promote representativity in terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the
organisation. The successful candidate will be required to write a competency
assessment, sign an annual performance agreement, disclose his/her financial
interest and be subjected to security clearance. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 at 16H00.
POST 24/64 : STUDENT LIASON OFFICER REF NO: GSC26/2026
(Permanent)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Balfour Campus
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree/National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Social Science or Education or
Psychology or Relative Qualification recognise by SAQA, 1-2 Years Work
Experience in Student Support Service or Teaching and Learning Environment
or Related Field. Knowledge: Proven knowledge of public sector, Knowledge
of TVET environment, proven Knowledge psychology, Teaching background,
public services framework, public services Act, public services regulations,
public management Act, Treasury regulations, Batho Pele Principle. Skills:
Computer literacy (MS, Word, Excel, Ms PowerPoint), Administrative,
communication and listening, Excellent project management, Confidence and
energy to build rapport, Ability to prioritise, work independently and meet
deadlines, flexibility to occasionally work out of hours strong eye for detail,
Lecturing experience in fundamental programmes will be a requirement, good
teamwork, Problem solving.
DUTIES : Provide student liaison services at the campus, Guide students and path their
careers, Manage the induction of the students at the campus, Provide welfare
support to students by liaising between stakeholder/persons, Prepare weekly
support and monthly reports, Assist students as and when required, Assist with
academic support plan for identified students, Guide students to make the right
decision and improve their performance, Ensure that there is continuous
awareness and level of knowledge in HIV/AIDS to students. Address socio-
economic students matters appropriately including substance and other
relevant matters, Promote regular attendance of students and monitor the
attendance register, Conduct home visits when necessary and
interview/counsel students, staff, families and other relevant stakeholders in
order to identify contributing factors associated with low attendance concerns,
support student, families by establishing and delivering absence reduction
programmes, manage the fundamentals support programmes, peer educator
programmes in the student support centre at campus, management of
application and placement process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
APPLICATIONS : The Acting Human Resource Manager; Gert Sibande TVET College; P. O. Box
3475; Standerton, 2430, email: applications@gscollege.edu.za or Hand
delivered to: 18a Beyers Naude Street, Standerton, 2430.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
49
NOTE : Gert Sibande TVET College is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in respect of race,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose
transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representative will receive
preference. Applicants must submit a fully completed and officially signed Z83
form and a comprehensive CV when applying for a post, at least three
contactable work-related references. Candidates will be contacted to submit
originally certified copies of all qualification before an interview, including
academic records, ID document and valid driver’s licence not older than 6
months, if drivers licence is required in terms of the requirements of the post
Application Z83 form is available on our website, www.gscollege.edu.za or
DPSA website Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered No faxed or emailed applications will be
accepted Applicants should submit separate Z83 and CV where more than one
post is applied for Selected candidates will be subjected to vetting process and
personnel suitability check in terms of minimum information security standard
The College reserves the right to verify any information received in applications
Late and incomplete applications will not be considered Submission of
fraudulent documentation and canvassing or College staff will immediately
disqualify the candidate Should you not receive any response from us within
60 days after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful Post reference number should be indicated on the application
The College reserves the right to withdraw any position at any time all
shortlisted candidate, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessment. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 (at 13h00 sharp), all applications received after the closing date
and time will not be entertained Apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments, please.
POST 24/65 : HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO:
GSC27/2026
(Permanent)
Re-advert
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Central office (Standerton)
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree/National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Human Resource
Management/development or Relative Qualification recognised by SAQA, 1-2
Years work Experience in Humann Resource Development Environment.
Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of PMDS and IQMS, Knowledge
and understanding of coordination and facilitation of training, understanding of
legislative framework governing the public services, Storage and retrieval
procedures in terms of the working environment. Skills: Coordination and
facilitation of training programmes, Planning and organizing, Communication,
Computer Literacy, Flexibility, Customer care services, Report writing,
Teamwork.
DUTIES : Implement all training and development programmes, Facilitate the
development of work skills plan, Process any ETDP Seta claims and
documents, Process bursaries in the College, Coordinate internship and
Learnership Programmes, Implement performance management development
system, Integrated quality management system and coordinate training for
college staff, Facilitate the development of job descriptions, Formulate the
employment equity plan for the college.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
APPLICATIONS : The Acting Human Resource Manager; Gert Sibande TVET College; P. O. Box
3475; Standerton, 2430, email: applications@gscollege.edu.za or Hand
delivered to: 18a Beyers Naude Street, Standerton, 2430.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
NOTE : Gert Sibande TVET College is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in respect of race,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose
transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representative will receive
preference. Applicants must submit a fully completed and officially signed Z83
form and a comprehensive CV when applying for a post, at least three
contactable work-related references. Candidates will be contacted to submit
50
originally certified copies of all qualification before an interview, including
academic records, ID document and valid driver’s licence not older than 6
months, if drivers licence is required in terms of the requirements of the post
Application Z83 form is available on our website, www.gscollege.edu.za or
DPSA website Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered No faxed or emailed applications will be
accepted Applicants should submit separate Z83 and CV where more than one
post is applied for Selected candidates will be subjected to vetting process and
personnel suitability check in terms of minimum information security standard
The College reserves the right to verify any information received in applications
Late and incomplete applications will not be considered Submission of
fraudulent documentation and canvassing or College staff will immediately
disqualify the candidate Should you not receive any response from us within
60 days after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful Post reference number should be indicated on the application
The College reserves the right to withdraw any position at any time all
shortlisted candidate, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessment. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 (at 13h00 sharp), all applications received after the closing date
and time will not be entertained Apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments, please.
POST 24/66 : PROVISIONING OFFICER: SUPPY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
GSC28/2026
(Permanent)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Central office (Standerton)
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree/National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Supply Chain Management /
Logistics or Public management, 1-2 years’ work experience in supply chain or
Assets Management or Relevant Environment. A valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge: Knowledge of BAS/LOGIS system, knowledge of assets disposal
procedure, knowledge and understating of legislative framework governing the
public services, knowledge of assets management, knowledge of supply chain
policies, knowledge of department of higher education mandate. Skills:
Planning and organizing, communication (good verbal and written), computer
literacy, Flexibility, customer care service, report writing, teamwork.
DUTIES : monitor and review the capturing of all physical (moveable and immoveable).
Assets in the physical asset management registers (Hard Cat (IT and Furniture
register). Monitor and review the allocation of assets to asset holders. Review
the monitoring of assets in accordance with the relevant policy and procedures.
Promote correct implementation of sound asset management practices.
Administer asset management services. Assist with managing of all asset
movement within the College. Supervise human resources/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
APPLICATIONS : The Acting Human Resource Manager; Gert Sibande TVET College; P. O. Box
3475; Standerton, 2430, email: applications@gscollege.edu.za or Hand
delivered to: 18a Beyers Naude Street, Standerton, 2430.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
NOTE : Gert Sibande TVET College is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in respect of race,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose
transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representative will receive
preference. Applicants must submit a fully completed and officially signed Z83
form and a comprehensive CV when applying for a post, at least three
contactable work-related references. Candidates will be contacted to submit
originally certified copies of all qualification before an interview, including
academic records, ID document and valid driver’s licence not older than 6
months, if drivers licence is required in terms of the requirements of the post
Application Z83 form is available on our website, www.gscollege.edu.za or
DPSA website Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered No faxed or emailed applications will be
accepted Applicants should submit separate Z83 and CV where more than one
post is applied for Selected candidates will be subjected to vetting process and
personnel suitability check in terms of minimum information security standard
51
The College reserves the right to verify any information received in applications
Late and incomplete applications will not be considered Submission of
fraudulent documentation and canvassing or College staff will immediately
disqualify the candidate Should you not receive any response from us within
60 days after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful Post reference number should be indicated on the application
The College reserves the right to withdraw any position at any time all
shortlisted candidate, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessment. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 (at 13h00 sharp), all applications received after the closing date
and time will not be entertained Apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments, please.
POST 24/67 : CAMPUS ADMINISTRATOR PERDEKOP CAMPUS REF NO: GSC29/2026
(Permanent)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Perdekop Campus
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree/National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Office Management and
Technology or Public Management or Relative Qualification recognised by
SAQA,1-2 years’ work experience in Administration environment. A Valid
Driver’s Licence Knowledge: Knowledge of office administration, Knowledge of
Public Service legislations and policies, Knowledge and understanding of the
TVET/CET Administration, Understanding of the Higher Education sector,
Understanding Cost centre budgetary, expenditure and cash flow management
Employment Equity Act, Public Service Regulations and Public Service Act,
Public Financial Management Act, Batho Pele Principles and any other related
legislation Skills: Planning and organizing, Financial management, Report
writing, Communication and interpersonal, Problem solving, Computer literacy,
Analytical, Client oriented, Project management, Team leadership, Planning
and organizing, People management.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services; Draw up a campus enrolment plan for
both NCV and report 191, Gather departmental information and compile a
report for A-TEAM and Campus Management, Prepare reports, presentations,
and other correspondence. Arrange meetings, conferences, workshops and
other gatherings as required, Provide other secretarial support services to
campus management, Administer and coordinate human resource services,
Coordinate Leave forms and submit to central office. Coordinate PMDS
documents and submit to central office, Coordinate all relevant documentation
pertaining to disciplinary cases and grievances. Follow up and resolve all
human resource administration queries and issues emanating from campus
staff, Maintain human resource records administration, Monitor the attendance
register for staff. Coordinate the compilation of duty registers and payment for
part-time lectures, Support the implementation, college staff wellness
programme at campus level, Provide procurement services; Recommend
purchase requisitions to Campus Manager, Draft procurement memo.
Complete requisition form, Receive goods and services, Coordinate and
submit invoices to central office for processing. Verify the correctness of goods
and services supplied against the appropriate documentation, Follow-up on
campus requisitions made, Maintain a proper filing system, Maintain files for
all campus staff, Filing of all relevant documentation according to QMS
requirements and national achieve Act, Keep record of postage received from
central office and ensure that the distribution is done accordingly and register
is kept by the relevant official, Administer student registration and examination
process; Assist in the registration of students. Store student portfolios of
evidence and student records, Scan documents of students, Capture and
reconcile information for students, Ensure data exceptions and corrections,
Process the details of applications for programmes and credits, Coordinate the
student registration process, Coordinate the examination process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
APPLICATIONS : The Acting Human Resource Manager; Gert Sibande TVET College; P. O. Box
3475; Standerton, 2430, email: applications@gscollege.edu.za or Hand
delivered to: 18a Beyers Naude Street, Standerton, 2430.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
52
NOTE : Gert Sibande TVET College is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in respect of race,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose
transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representative will receive
preference. Applicants must submit a fully completed and officially signed Z83
form and a comprehensive CV when applying for a post, at least three
contactable work-related references. Candidates will be contacted to submit
originally certified copies of all qualification before an interview, including
academic records, ID document and valid driver’s licence not older than 6
months, if drivers licence is required in terms of the requirements of the post
Application Z83 form is available on our website, www.gscollege.edu.za or
DPSA website Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered No faxed or emailed applications will be
accepted Applicants should submit separate Z83 and CV where more than one
post is applied for Selected candidates will be subjected to vetting process and
personnel suitability check in terms of minimum information security standard
The College reserves the right to verify any information received in applications
Late and incomplete applications will not be considered Submission of
fraudulent documentation and canvassing or College staff will immediately
disqualify the candidate Should you not receive any response from us within
60 days after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful Post reference number should be indicated on the application
The College reserves the right to withdraw any position at any time all
shortlisted candidate, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessment. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 (at 13h00 sharp), all applications received after the closing date
and time will not be entertained Apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments, please.
POST 24/68 : MARKETING CLERK REF NO: GSC30/2026
(Permanent)
Re-advert
SALARY : R237 543 per annum (Level 05), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Central Office (Standerton)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with Computer as passed Subject or NCV Level 4 Certificate in
Marketing. N6 Certificate or Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Communication or
Marketing or Public Relation will be an advantage, 1 year work experience in
Marketing or Communication Environment will be an added advantage.
Knowledge: Knowledge of Social media practice and channels, Knowledge
and understanding of stakeholder management, understanding of the
importance of branding and applying across a range of channels, Knowledge
of event management, Knowledge and understanding of website maintenance.
Skills: Planning and organising, Administration, Financial management, Report
writing, Communication and Interpersonal, Problem solving, Computer literacy,
Client Oriented, Project management, Team leader.
DUTIES : Handle college media platforms e.g. (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram), Ensure
that college social media platforms are updated on regular basis, Liaise with
campuses to ensure that college social media platforms reflect all sites, Monitor
the college website, Collect press clipping from print media publications, the
collection of data from online information sources, Archive all the press
clippings and send clipping to management weekly, Conduct quarterly surveys
around targeted groups, Compile reports on the survey for purpose of section
presentation, Utilise the findings of surveys to implement stronger techniques
around weak zones, Assist with day to day running of the section- decrease
workload and help the team meet deadlines.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
APPLICATIONS : The Acting Human Resource Manager; Gert Sibande TVET College; P. O. Box
3475; Standerton, 2430, email: applications@gscollege.edu.za or Hand
delivered to: 18a Beyers Naude Street, Standerton, 2430.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
NOTE : Gert Sibande TVET College is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in respect of race,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose
transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representative will receive
53
preference. Applicants must submit a fully completed and officially signed Z83
form and a comprehensive CV when applying for a post, at least three
contactable work-related references. Candidates will be contacted to submit
originally certified copies of all qualification before an interview, including
academic records, ID document and valid driver’s licence not older than 6
months, if drivers licence is required in terms of the requirements of the post
Application Z83 form is available on our website, www.gscollege.edu.za or
DPSA website Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered No faxed or emailed applications will be
accepted Applicants should submit separate Z83 and CV where more than one
post is applied for Selected candidates will be subjected to vetting process and
personnel suitability check in terms of minimum information security standard
The College reserves the right to verify any information received in applications
Late and incomplete applications will not be considered Submission of
fraudulent documentation and canvassing or College staff will immediately
disqualify the candidate Should you not receive any response from us within
60 days after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful Post reference number should be indicated on the application
The College reserves the right to withdraw any position at any time all
shortlisted candidate, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessment. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 (at 13h00 sharp), all applications received after the closing date
and time will not be entertained Apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments, please.
POST 24/69 : MARKETING CLERK REF NO: GSC31/2026
(Permanent)
Re-advert
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Central Office (Standerton)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with Computer as Passed Subject or NCV Level 4 Certificate in
Marketing. N6 Certificate or Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Communication or
Marketing or Public Relations will be an advantage. 1 year work experience in
Marketing or Communication Environment will be an added advantage.
Knowledge: Knowledge of Social media practice and channels, Knowledge
and understanding of stakeholder management, understanding of the
importance of branding and applying across a range of channels, Knowledge
of event management, Knowledge and understanding of website maintenance.
Skills: Planning and organising, Administration, Financial management, Report
writing, Communication and Interpersonal, Problem solving, Computer literacy,
Client Oriented, Project management, Team leader.
DUTIES : Handle college media platforms e.g. (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram), Ensure
that college social media platforms are updated on regular basis, Liaise with
campuses to ensure that college social media platforms reflect all sites, Monitor
the college website, Collect press clipping from print media publications, the
collection of data from online information sources, Archive all the press
clippings and send clipping to management weekly, Conduct quarterly surveys
around targeted groups, Compile reports on the survey for purpose of section
presentation, Utilise the findings of surveys to implement stronger techniques
around weak zones, Assist with day to day running of the section- decrease
workload and help the team meet deadlines.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
APPLICATIONS : The Acting Human Resource Manager; Gert Sibande TVET College; P. O. Box
3475; Standerton, 2430, email: applications@gscollege.edu.za or Hand
delivered to: 18a Beyers Naude Street, Standerton, 2430.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
NOTE : Gert Sibande TVET College is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in respect of race,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose
transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representative will receive
preference. Applicants must submit a fully completed and officially signed Z83
form and a comprehensive CV when applying for a post, at least three
contactable work-related references. Candidates will be contacted to submit
originally certified copies of all qualification before an interview, including
54
academic records, ID document and valid driver’s licence not older than 6
months, if drivers licence is required in terms of the requirements of the post
Application Z83 form is available on our website, www.gscollege.edu.za or
DPSA website Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered No faxed or emailed applications will be
accepted Applicants should submit separate Z83 and CV where more than one
post is applied for Selected candidates will be subjected to vetting process and
personnel suitability check in terms of minimum information security standard
The College reserves the right to verify any information received in applications
Late and incomplete applications will not be considered Submission of
fraudulent documentation and canvassing or College staff will immediately
disqualify the candidate Should you not receive any response from us within
60 days after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful Post reference number should be indicated on the application
The College reserves the right to withdraw any position at any time all
shortlisted candidate, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessment. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 (at 13h00 sharp), all applications received after the closing date
and time will not be entertained Apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments, please.
POST 24/70 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK REF NO: GSC32/2026
(Permanent)
SALARY : R237 543 per annum (Level 05), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Balfour Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with Computer as a passed subject, Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Supply
Chain Management or Logistic or Public Management will be an advantage. 1
year work experience in supply chain or Assets Management Environment will
be an added advantage, A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Strong
administration skills. Appropriate verbal and written communication skills.
Innovative thinking and problem-solving skills. Ability to perform accurately and
methodically under pressure. Sound interpersonal relations and a pleasant
telephone personality. Good planning and organisational skills. Thoroughness,
honesty, integrity and willingness to work hard, coupled with work. Ability to
interpret directives. Skills: Planning and organising, Administration, Financial
management, Report writing, Communication and Interpersonal, Problem
solving, Computer literacy, Client Oriented, Project management, Team leader.
DUTIES : Assist with rendering procurement of goods and services. Render logistical
administration services. Render general administration support services
including typing, filing and preparing documents for meeting. Act as secretary
to the Bid Committee. Uploading specifications, quotation, invoices, till slips,
motivation on ITS system.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
APPLICATIONS : The Acting Human Resource Manager; Gert Sibande TVET College; P. O. Box
3475; Standerton, 2430, email: applications@gscollege.edu.za or Hand
delivered to: 18a Beyers Naude Street, Standerton, 2430.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
NOTE : Gert Sibande TVET College is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in respect of race,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose
transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representative will receive
preference. Applicants must submit a fully completed and officially signed Z83
form and a comprehensive CV when applying for a post, at least three
contactable work-related references. Candidates will be contacted to submit
originally certified copies of all qualification before an interview, including
academic records, ID document and valid driver’s licence not older than 6
months, if drivers licence is required in terms of the requirements of the post
Application Z83 form is available on our website, www.gscollege.edu.za or
DPSA website Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered No faxed or emailed applications will be
accepted Applicants should submit separate Z83 and CV where more than one
post is applied for Selected candidates will be subjected to vetting process and
personnel suitability check in terms of minimum information security standard
The College reserves the right to verify any information received in applications
55
Late and incomplete applications will not be considered Submission of
fraudulent documentation and canvassing or College staff will immediately
disqualify the candidate Should you not receive any response from us within
60 days after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful Post reference number should be indicated on the application
The College reserves the right to withdraw any position at any time all
shortlisted candidate, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessment. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 (at 13h00 sharp), all applications received after the closing date
and time will not be entertained Apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments, please.
POST 24/71 : RECEPTIONISTS
(Permanent)
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Standerton Campus Ref No: GSC33 /2026 (X1 Post)
Ermelo Campus Ref No: GSC34/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate with computer as a passed subject or Level 4 Certificate
in Office Administration. N6 Certificate in Management Assistant will be an
advantage. 1 year relevant work experience will be an added advantage.
knowledge: Client orientation and Customer focus, good communication,
Telephone etiquette. skills: Must be customer literate, Sound organizational
skills, good people skills, Basic written communication skills.
DUTIES : Receive telephonic calls, message and channel to relevant role players,
provide relevant information as required, Operate office equipment such as fax
machines and photocopiers, liaise with internal and external personnel,
Maintain telephone directory.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
APPLICATIONS : The Acting Human Resource Manager; Gert Sibande TVET College; P. O. Box
3475; Standerton, 2430, email: applications@gscollege.edu.za or Hand
delivered to: 18a Beyers Naude Street, Standerton, 2430.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
NOTE : Gert Sibande TVET College is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in respect of race,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose
transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representative will receive
preference. Applicants must submit a fully completed and officially signed Z83
form and a comprehensive CV when applying for a post, at least three
contactable work-related references. Candidates will be contacted to submit
originally certified copies of all qualification before an interview, including
academic records, ID document and valid driver’s licence not older than 6
months, if drivers licence is required in terms of the requirements of the post
Application Z83 form is available on our website, www.gscollege.edu.za or
DPSA website Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered No faxed or emailed applications will be
accepted Applicants should submit separate Z83 and CV where more than one
post is applied for Selected candidates will be subjected to vetting process and
personnel suitability check in terms of minimum information security standard
The College reserves the right to verify any information received in applications
Late and incomplete applications will not be considered Submission of
fraudulent documentation and canvassing or College staff will immediately
disqualify the candidate Should you not receive any response from us within
60 days after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful Post reference number should be indicated on the application
The College reserves the right to withdraw any position at any time all
shortlisted candidate, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessment. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 (at 13h00 sharp), all applications received after the closing date
and time will not be entertained Apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments, please.
56
POST 24/72 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: GSC35/2026
(Permanent)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Central office (Standerton)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 Certificate (Standard 8), Basic Security Course, Basic Education and
training.1 Year experience will be an Advantage. A Valid Drivers Licence.
Knowledge: Knowledge of the access control procedures, building patrols,
overseeing security registers and key controls, Knowledge of measures for the
control and movement of equipment and stores, Knowledge of prescribes
security procedures and the authority of security officers under these
documents, Knowledge on the relevant emergency procedures. Skills:
Reading, Writing, Language, Operating equipment, Literacy communication
(verbal and written), people management, Office management and
administration, Analytical, Computer literacy, Problem-solving, Planning and
organizing Ability to work under pressure, Adaptive, Confidentiality, integrity,
Disciplined.
DUTIES : Perform access control functions, ensure safety in the building and the
premises, Ensure that equipment, documents and stores do not leave or enter
the building or premises unauthorized, Ensure 79all incidents are recorded in
the occurrence books/registers
ENQUIRIES : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
APPLICATIONS : The Acting Human Resource Manager; Gert Sibande TVET College; P. O. Box
3475; Standerton, 2430, email: applications@gscollege.edu.za or Hand
delivered to: 18a Beyers Naude Street, Standerton, 2430.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr BJ Dlongolo Tel No: (017) 712 9040
NOTE : Gert Sibande TVET College is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in respect of race,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions. Candidates whose
transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representative will receive
preference. Applicants must submit a fully completed and officially signed Z83
form and a comprehensive CV when applying for a post, at least three
contactable work-related references. Candidates will be contacted to submit
originally certified copies of all qualification before an interview, including
academic records, ID document and valid driver’s licence not older than 6
months, if drivers licence is required in terms of the requirements of the post
Application Z83 form is available on our website, www.gscollege.edu.za or
DPSA website Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered No faxed or emailed applications will be
accepted Applicants should submit separate Z83 and CV where more than one
post is applied for Selected candidates will be subjected to vetting process and
personnel suitability check in terms of minimum information security standard
The College reserves the right to verify any information received in applications
Late and incomplete applications will not be considered Submission of
fraudulent documentation and canvassing or College staff will immediately
disqualify the candidate Should you not receive any response from us within
60 days after the closing date, please consider your application as
unsuccessful Post reference number should be indicated on the application
The College reserves the right to withdraw any position at any time all
shortlisted candidate, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessment. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
will be integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 (at 13h00 sharp), all applications received after the closing date
and time will not be entertained Apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments, please.
57
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) seeks to hire patriotic, professional, passionate and talented
individuals to form part of a new leadership team, equipped with the right skills to facilitate the
transformation of Home Affairs into a digital-first, world-class organisation. If you are committed to
delivering on the Medium-Term Development Plan’s priorities through digital transformation, ascribe to
the Department’s shared value set, have what it takes to deliver on the needs of DHA Clients with the
highest levels of dignity, integrity and innovation, and your credentials meet the requirements of any of
the following positions, kindly respond before the closing date. The DHA is a merit-based, equal
opportunity and affirmative action employer. In line with its commitment to promoting representivity, in
the filling of entry-level positions preference may be given to locally based candidates on grounds of
affordability as well as to (unemployed) youth and the DHA’s interns and learners who have successfully
completed their respective skills development programmes. In the filling of all posts, preference may be
afforded to persons with disabilities, and in respect of SMS-level posts, to women. Persons falling in
these categories and who meet the post requirements are preferred.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent
to the correct address specified at the bottom of the posts, on or before the
closing date accompanied by a fully completed Application for Employment
Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number and job title, and a
comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy), job title, duties
performed and exit reason for each employment period to be considered, as
well as the details of at least two contactable employment references (as recent
as possible), regardless of online or manual submission. Where a valid Driver's
License and a Professional Driving Permit (PDP) is a requirement, this must
be indicated on the CV. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Shortlisted candidates will also be required to submit a copy of their ID
document, a valid driver’s license (if specified as a job requirement), relevant
educational qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic Transcripts of
completed qualifications, and Acting letters as directed. Furthermore,
applicants who possess (a) foreign qualification(s), are required to submit the
evaluated results of such qualifications, as received from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA); for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity, will be subjected to an interview, various relevant
tests and assessments, and employment suitability checks (credit, criminal,
citizenship, qualifications, and employment references including verification of
exit reasons, and conducting business with State). Once appointed, serving of
a prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a security clearance
appropriate to the post, will be required. Correspondence between the
Department and candidates will be limited to shortlisted candidates, only. The
DHA complies with the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4
of 2013). Applicants’ personal information will be used for recruitment
purposes, retained where required for audit, and safeguarded against
unauthorised disclosure, except where legally required. Submission of an
application constitutes consent to such processing.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the process to submit applications for the post of
Senior Legal Administration Officer (MR-6) with Ref No: HRMC 43/26/3, that
was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026, was
omitted and therefore must be sent to: Applications: Applications compliant
with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be submitted online at
https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or legalrecruitment@dha.gov.za To this effect,
the closing date for this post has been extended to 24 July 2026.We apologise
for the inconvenience caused.
58
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 24/73 : DIRECTOR: FINANCE AND SUPPORT REF NO: HRMC 47/26/1
Provincial Manager’s Office
SALARY : R1 317 384 - R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary
package) structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Provincial Manager’s Office: Free-State: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : B Degree in Financial Management, Accounting or related field, at NQF level 7
as recognized by SAQA. 5 years’ experience in Middle / Senior Managerial
level is required. Extensive experience in Financial Management and
Administration environment is required. Knowledge of the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public
service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government
Structures. Knowledge and application of Public Finance Management Act and
Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the E government policy framework
consultation paper developed by GITO. Knowledge of Supply Chain
Management. Excellent abilities and vast experience in project management,
project optimization, and the use of online systems. A Valid driver’s licence or
ability to fulfil the operational travel requirements of the post independently,
through maintaining reliable transport arrangements for the execution of official
duties, as well as willingness to travel and work extended hours. Completion
of the Senior Management Services Pre-entry Certificate upon appointment.
Required skills and competencies: Strategic capability and leadership
Execution. Service delivery innovation, client orientation and customer focus.
People management and empowerment. Financial and expenditure
Management. Program and project management. Financial risk management.
Accountability. Support with digital transformation. Excellent verbal and written
communication, as well as presentation skills. Problem-solving and analysis.
Influencing, networking, conflict management and negotiation skills. Attention
to detail. Process analysis and improvement. Stakeholder relations and
customer focus. Interpersonal skills. Decision making and initiating action.
Planning, organising and time management. Business report writing. Business
continuity. Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage the coordination of Human Resource Management and
Development process and procedures in the Province. Manage identified
threats and opportunities in quantity and quality of HR in line with the business
(provincial) goals and models. Maintain a link and rationale for all HR activities
that directly impact business success, enhancing HR’s reputation and
contribution in the province. Develop and execute plan for human resources in
alignment with Province core values as adopted in the operational plan. Ensure
identification of current and future needs of HRM processes and procedures in
the Province (i.e. recruitment& selection, change management, leave and
absenteeism, termination, wellness programmes, alignment of the Provincial
HR Plan with the work plan, training, organisational development, and retention
strategies. Lead and direct the coordination of Performance Management
Development Systems’ (PMDS) process that sets out performance objectives
for all levels of staff within business partnering. Manage the coordination and
implementation of inter Provincial Learnership Forum. Coordinate the
implementation of HR operations, decentralisation and delegations for the
Province. Ensure improvement on quality of decision-making and liaise with
HRM&D Branch on HR related matters that have impacts on the Province.
Ensure the development and implementation of Standard Operation
Procedures (SOPs). Lead and direct the unit on matters emanating from HR
audit, inspection, observation and risk assessment. Partner with external and
business units in line with the Service Level Agreement (SLA) to ensure the
attainment of long term human resource services goals (i.e. Business units,
OPSC, DOL and DPSA). Manage financial administrative matters in the
Provinces line with Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Manage the
coordination of IT operations in the Province. Manage and implement strategic
objectives and innovation within the Directorate. Ensure service delivery
improvement within the directorate. Ensure effective and efficient management
59
of human, physical and financial resources within the Chief Directorate. Coach
and guide staff on compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mnisi Tel No: (012) 406 4238
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
financerecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 24/74 : DIRECTOR: APPLICATION PROCESSING REF NO: HRMC 47/26/2
Branch: Civics Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 - R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary
package) structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Management, Public Administration,
Operations Management or related field, at NQF level 7 as recognized by
SAQA. 5 years' experience at a Middle / Senior Managerial level is required.
Extensive experience in Operations Management is required. Knowledge of
the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. Knowledge and understanding
of all relevant public service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well
as Government Structures. Knowledge of the Immigration Act. Knowledge of
Public Finance Management Act. Excellent abilities and vast experience in
project management, project optimization, and the use of online systems. A
Valid driver’s licence or ability to fulfil the operational travel requirements of the
post independently, through maintaining reliable transport arrangements for the
execution of official duties, as well as willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Completion of the Senior Management Services Pre-entry Certificate
upon appointment. Required skills and competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership Execution. Service delivery innovation, client orientation and
customer focus. People management and empowerment. Financial
Management. Program and project management. Change management.
Knowledge Management. Support with digital transformation. Service delivery
Innovation. Excellent verbal and written communication, as well as
presentation skills. Problem-solving and analysis. Influencing, networking,
conflict management and negotiation skills. Attention to detail. Process
analysis and improvement. Stakeholder relations and customer focus.
Interpersonal skills. Technical skills: Commercial skills. Decision making and
initiating action. Planning, organising and time management. Business report
writing. Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : Manage effective operations within the application processing unit. Provide
guidance and leadership to the application processing unit in the achievement
of strategic and operational goals. Drive implementation of the Batho Pele
Principles within the unit in all interactions with internal and external customers.
Monitor performance against service level agreements and ensure service
delivery to internal and external stakeholders and maintain statistical data
against service level standards, bottlenecks, volumes, trends and error rates.
Monitor the performance of the SLA between the Front Office and the unit and
take action where required. Develop and implement quality assurance and data
quality strategies and actions. Oversee the financials of the unit including
accurate financial accounting, monitoring and reporting within the unit. Ensure
uniform implementation of Standard Operating Procedures. Implement
effective operational control measures to prevent corruption and other non-
financial losses. Monitor the accurate capturing and activation of application
data on the NPR and other databases. Establish, maintain and ensure a good
working relationship with the department and relevant stakeholders. Manage
and implement strategic objectives and innovation within the Directorate.
Development and Implementation of policies and procedures, directives, acts
and regulations. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical
and financial resources within the Directorate. Coach and guide staff on
compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Modipa Tel No: (012) 406 4243
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
60
POST 24/75 : DIRECTOR: FOOTPRINT DEVELOPMENT AND HOSPITAL REF NO: HRMC
47/26/3
Branch: Operations
SALARY : R1 317 384 - R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary
package) structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management, Public
Administration, Management, Public Management, Social Science, Business
Management, Management and Administration or related field, at NQF level 7
as recognized by SAQA. 5 Years’ experience at a Middle / Senior Managerial
level is required. Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa.
Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public service and Departmental
Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government Structures. Knowledge of the
Births and Deaths Registration Act, No. 51 of 1992. Knowledge of the
Identification Act, No. 68 of 1997. Knowledge and understanding of all
legislations, policies and prescripts. Knowledge of Intelligence Act, Criminal
Procedures Act, Police Act, Anti-corruption legislation, LRA, BCEA, PSA.
Knowledge of policy development and government protocol. Knowledge of
PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of
Preferential Policy Framework (PPFA). Knowledge of the Protection of
information Act (POPIA). Knowledge of Departmental core policies, prescripts
and practices. Understanding of Good Corporate Governance principles (King
II). Excellent abilities and vast experience in project management, project
optimization, and the use of online systems. A Valid driver’s licence or ability to
fulfil the operational travel requirements of the post independently, through
maintaining reliable transport arrangements for the execution of official duties,
as well as willingness to travel and work extended hours. Completion of the
Senior Management Services Pre-entry Certificate upon appointment.
Required skills and competencies: Strategic capability and leadership
Execution. Service delivery innovation, client orientation and customer focus.
People management and empowerment. Financial Management. Program and
project management. Change management. Support with digital
transformation. Excellent verbal and written communication, as well as
presentation skills. Problem-solving and analysis. Influencing, networking,
conflict management and negotiation skills. Attention to detail. Process
analysis and improvement. Stakeholder relations and customer focus.
Interpersonal skills. Decision making and initiating action. Planning, organising
and time management. Business report writing. Computer literacy. Patriotism,
Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Ensure effective footprint development and service model
across the department. Develop DHA Footprint Strategy and monitor
implementation across all tiers. Manage the implementation of the Health
Facilities points and delivery model. Liaise with all Province Managers to
ensure the development and implementation of a comprehensive Footprint
Strategy. Drive cooperation with Department of Health on DHA service delivery
in hospitals and clinics. Ensure uniform, consistent and optimal Health
Facilities delivery at DHA Service Points to maximise birth and death
registrations and meet agreed service targets. Develop identified policies and
procedures in conjunction with the Policy and Strategy unit. Coordinate and
maintain the Footprint strategy, structure, policies, and quality frameworks in
the department. Establish and maintain effective communication channels to
enable informed decision making. Establish the reporting framework for the
Front Office Footprint. Ensure that effective project management processes,
procedures and standards are adhered to. Manage and implement strategic
objectives and innovation within the Directorate. Develop and implementation
of policy and procedure, directive acts and regulations. Ensure effective risk
and compliance management. Ensure effective and efficient management of
human, physical and financial resources within the Chief Directorate. Coach
and guide staff on compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Maswanganyi Tel No: (012) 406 4236
61
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ipsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 24/76 : DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO: HRMC 47/26/4
Chief Directorate: Strategy and Institutional Performance
SALARY : R1 317 384 - R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary
package) structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration, Public Management,
Management or related field at NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA. 5 Years’
experience at a Middle / Senior Managerial level is required. Knowledge of the
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of
all relevant public service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well
as Government Structures. Understanding of Minimum Information Security
Standard (MISS). Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA)
and Treasury regulations. Excellent abilities and vast experience in project
management, project optimization, and the use of online systems. A Valid
driver’s licence or ability to fulfil the operational travel requirements of the post
independently, through maintaining reliable transport arrangements for the
execution of official duties, as well as willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Completion of the Senior
Management Services Pre-entry Certificate upon appointment. Required skills
and competencies: Strategic capability and leadership Execution. Service
delivery innovation, client orientation and customer focus. People management
and empowerment. Financial Management. Program and project
management. Change management. Support with digital transformation.
Excellent verbal and written communication, as well as presentation skills.
Problem-solving and analysis. Influencing, networking and conflict
management. Attention to detail. Process analysis and improvement.
Stakeholder relations and customer focus. Interpersonal skills. Decision
making and initiating action. Planning, organising and time management.
Business report writing. Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Ensure the Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation on
Organisational Performance. Monitor standard operating procedures,
processes and service standards. Facilitate and manage quality standards for
reporting. Facilitate and manage in-year and end of term reporting processes.
Provision of monitoring and evaluation support to executive committees and
branches. Facilitate periodic evaluations including policy legislation. Provision
of statistical analysis for the DHA. Ensure the coordination and support of
Monitoring and Evaluation processes and cycle according to approved policies
and guidelines. Provide guidance and contribute to building Monitoring and
Evaluation capacity. Monitor and create awareness of the value of Monitoring
and Evaluation in the department. Manage the reporting system, including
quarterly reviews, in order to comply with external reporting requirements
related to performance. Establish and maintain effective relationships with key
Department units such as Internal Audit, Planning, Research so as to
collaborate, share relevant information and find synergies. Establish and
maintain effective relationships with stakeholders with the view to enhance the
Monitoring and Evaluation Function. Analyse results and lessons learned and
provide strategies for improvement of performance. Establish, maintain and
ensure a good working relationship with the department and relevant
stakeholders. Provide strategic direction, and leadership and ensure the
strategic positioning. Oversee the development and review of policies and code
of practice for the Branch. Ensure effective risk and compliance management.
Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial
resources within the Chief Directorate. Coach and guide staff on compliance
with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Raziya Tel No: (012) 406 4155
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ipsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
62
POST 24/77 : DIRECTOR: TRANSFORMATION AND GENDER REF NO: HRMC 47/26/5
Chief Directorate: Employee Engagement
SALARY : R1 317 384 - R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary
package) structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Management Science, Human Resources
Management, or related field at NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA. Five (5)
years' Middle / Senior Managerial level experience in Transformation and
Gender environment is required. Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic
of South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public service and
Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government Structures.
Understanding of integrated strategy for disabled people. Understanding of the
National framework of gender equality. Knowledge of the Basic Conditions of
Employment Act. Understanding of National Calendar of events.
Understanding of Youth issues. Understanding of Public Service
Transformation White Paper. Excellent abilities and vast experience in project
management, project optimization, and the use of online systems. A Valid
driver’s licence or ability to fulfil the operational travel requirements of the post
independently, through maintaining reliable transport arrangements for the
execution of official duties, as well as willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Completion of the Senior
Management Services Pre-entry Certificate upon appointment. Required skills
and competencies: Strategic capability and leadership Execution. Service
delivery innovation, client orientation and customer focus. People management
and empowerment. Financial Management. Program and project
management. Change management. Support with digital transformation.
Excellent verbal and written communication, as well as presentation skills.
Problem-solving and analysis. Influencing, networking and conflict
management. Attention to detail. Budget planning and cost control. Financial
reporting. Process analysis and improvement. Stakeholder relations and
customer focus. Interpersonal skills. Decision making and initiating action.
Planning, organising and time management. Business report writing. Computer
literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Lead and direct the diversity programs and strategies in the
Department. Provide direction on monitoring and evaluation of all strategies to
advance equity and report to the relevant stakeholders. Provide strategic
direction on national, regional and international policies, treaties/conventions
guidelines. Lead and direct / monitor the implementation of the Employment
Equity Act, Employment Equity Plan and all related policies to ensure equity on
gender, youth, and persons with disabilities. Manage development, review and
monitor the implementation of the Employment Equity Policy and Plan.
Develop and monitor policies that protect and promote diversity in the
workplace, as well as driving awareness programs to ensure compliance.
Ensure departmental representation and participation in intergovernmental
structures pertaining to transformation and gender in the public service. Ensure
that the Departmental policies and practices are designed/developed to
accommodate and provide equal opportunities for people from designated
groups. Lead and direct equity and mainstream transformation initiatives and
activities in the Department. Provide strategic direction and leadership in the
Directorate. Enhance Operational Efficiency and Service Delivery. Ensure Risk
and Compliance Management. Manage and monitor quality, risk, standards
and practices against prescribed frameworks. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Chief
Directorate. Coach and guide staff on compliance with all regulatory
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Motshegoa Tel No: (012) 406 4252
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
hrrecruitment@dha.gov.za
63
POST 24/78 : SPECIALIST: VETTING REF NO: HRMC 47/26/6
Branch: Counter Corruption and Security Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 - R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary
package) structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law or Vetting, Security Management, Public
Management and Administration, or related field at NQF level 7 as recognized
by SAQA. 5 Years’ Middle / Senior Managerial level experience in Vetting or
handling of classified information is required. Knowledge of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant
public service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as
Government Structures. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) and Treasury regulations. Knowledge of the Minimum Information
Security standards (MISS). Knowledge of the National Intelligence Strategy
Act. Knowledge of the Protection of Information Act. Knowledge of the Criminal
Procedure Act of 1977 as amended. Understanding of investigative techniques
and methodology. Knowledge of vetting and security legislation including
National Key Point Act. Understanding and knowledge of risk management.
Understanding of the national vetting strategy. Excellent abilities and vast
experience in project management, project optimization, and the use of online
systems. A Valid driver’s licence or ability to fulfil the operational travel
requirements of the post independently, through maintaining reliable transport
arrangements for the execution of official duties, as well as willingness to travel
and work extended hours. Willingness to travel and work extended hours.
Completion of the Senior Management Services Pre-entry Certificate upon
appointment. Required skills and competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership Execution. Service delivery innovation, client orientation and
customer focus. People management and empowerment. Financial
Management. Program and project management. Change management.
Knowledge management. Support with digital transformation. Excellent verbal
and written communication, as well as presentation skills. Problem-solving and
analysis. Influencing, networking, conflict management and negotiation skills.
Attention to detail. Process analysis and improvement. Crime information
management. Interpersonal skills. Decision making and initiating action.
Planning, organising and time management. Policy development, coaching
and facilitating. Business report writing. Result-orientated. Computer literacy.
Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage the operations and service delivery within Vetting unit
to ensure efficiency to support departmental security and compliance. Oversee
the entire lifecycle of a vetting process, including pre-employment checks,
background investigations, and the management of sensitive information. Lead
and oversee daily operations within the Vetting Unit to ensure optimal workflow
and resource utilization. Monitor and evaluate service delivery performance,
identifying areas for improvement and implementing corrective actions. Foster
a culture of accountability, continuous improvement, and service excellence
within the unit. Align all vetting activities meet departmental policies, national
laws, and regulatory standards. Identify, assess, and mitigate departmental
risks through thorough vetting, and contribute to the development and updating
of the risk register. Oversee the execution of fieldwork investigations within the
Department. Manage and oversee the pre-employment vetting process in order
to mitigate the organisational risk on new recruits. Evaluate the effectiveness
of controls and continuously improving vetting policies and procedures.
Manage and implement strategic objectives and innovation within the Vetting
unit. Manage the implementation of people management strategies, policies
and procedures within Vetting Unit. Ensure effective risk and compliance
management. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical
and financial resources within the Chief Directorate. Coach and guide staff on
compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Mamphoke Tel No: (012) 406 4247
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
64
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/79 : DEPUY DIRECTOR: PARLIAMENTARY AND CABINET SUPPORT REF NO:
HRMC 47/26/7
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane and Cape Town (Sessional)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Political Sciences, Public Management and
Administration or related field at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. 3 years’
experience in middle management is required. Understanding of various
Portfolio and cabinet Committees. Knowledge of foreign policies.
Understanding of Intergovernmental Relations framework. Knowledge of
NEPAD, SADC and sanctions and mechanism. knowledge of the Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury regulations. Knowledge of the
South African Constitution. Understanding of departmental legislation as well
as Human Resources legislation and prescripts. A valid drivers’ license.
Regular travel between Pretoria and Cape Town, particularly during
Parliamentary sitting. Willingness to travel frequently and work outside normal
office hours when operationally required. Ability to communicate with all levels
of management. Required skills and competencies: People Management and
Empowerment. Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer
Focus. Financial Management. Communication. Decision Making. Planning
and Organising. Exceptional organisational and coordination skills. Business
report writing. Strong written communication and editing skills. Computer
literacy (advanced Microsoft Office Suite). Strong administrative and document
management skills. Strong analytical skills. Problem-solving and conflict
management. Ability to manage multiple priorities and consistently meet tight
deadlines. Strong sense of accountability and ownership. Ability to work
independently with minimal supervision. Attention to detail. Influencing and
networking. Presentation skills. Facilitation skills. Negotiation skills.
Interpersonal relations. Professionalism, discretion and integrity. Patriotic,
Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Provide support services to Parliamentary matters, portfolio
selected committees and Cabinet matters. Coordinate multiple concurrent
Parliamentary and Cabinet workstreams. Track deadlines across the
Department and follow up with branches to ensure timely submissions.
Coordinate departmental interaction with Parliamentary Committees in
accordance with the Parliamentary programme. Render administrative and
technical support to departmental delegations attending Parliamentary
briefings and committee meetings. Manage the drafting, quality assurance and
submission of departmental responses to Parliamentary questions posed to
the Minister of Home Affairs. Facilitate and coordinate departmental responses
to Parliamentary and Cabinet enquiries. Coordinate inputs from relevant
branches and participate in the drafting and finalisation of Cabinet memoranda
for Cabinet consideration. Ensure departmental compliance with all
Parliamentary and Cabinet processes, policies and prescribed timeframes.
Monitor the implementation of decisions taken by Cabinet, Cabinet Committees
and Parliamentary Committees that are relevant to the Department. Maintain
accurate tracking systems and records of Parliamentary questions, committee
resolutions, Cabinet memoranda and Cabinet Committee minutes. Escalate
risks or delays that may impact compliance with Parliamentary or Cabinet
deadlines. Drive the implementation of the Batho Pele principles within the unit
in all interactions with internal and external stakeholders. Develop and
implementation of policy and procedure, directive acts and regulations.
Develop and review communications policies and code of practice for the
directorate. Implement governance processes, frameworks and procedures.
Ensure compliance with all audit requirements, quality and risk management
frameworks, standards and procedures. Monitor and ensure compliance with
legislation, regulations and DHA policies and procedures. Plan the production
of annual reports in line with corporate strategy. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr B Mathatho Tel No: (012) 406 4250
65
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
DGrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 24/80 : DISTRICT INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OFFICER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09), (a salary package)
CENTRE : KwaZulu-Natal: Harry Gwala District Ref No: HRMC 47/26/8a (X1 Post)
Northern Cape: Namaqua District Ref No: HRMC 47/26/8b (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology, Computer Science,
Information Systems, Information and Communication Technology, Computer
Engineering at an NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA. ITIL Foundation
Certificate will be an added advantage. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
Information Technology environment is required. Experience in desktop,
network, server and application support. Experience in wide range of computer
systems support. Knowledge and application of the GITO Guidelines and
Prescripts. Sound knowledge of Minimum Information Security Standards.
Sound knowledge of the Protection of Information 84 of 1982 and the
Promotion of Access to information Act 2 of 2000. Knowledge of the State
Information Technology Agency Act 88 of 1998. Knowledge of the Public
Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of Departmental legislation and
prescripts. Knowledge of Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL).
A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to work extended hours. Required skills
and competencies: Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and
Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment. Programme and
Project Management. Conflict Management and Resolution. Influencing and
networking. Attention to detail. Process analysis and improvement. Conflict
resolution and management. Team working. Presentation Skills. Interpersonal
Skills. Communication Skills. Planning and Organising. Computer literacy.
Decision Making. Report Writing. Digital transformation Skills. Patriotism,
Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Ensure the implementation of infrastructure and hardware
support. Install and support Telkom data lines, routers, switches, firewalls, and
IDS/IPS. Ensure the installation and support of Servers in the centre. Ensure
officials are enrolled on BACM and provided with BACM smart cards. Support
online verification scanners and fingerprint scanners used for online
verification. Provide support on desktops, printers, or laptops on peripherals
e.g. camera; 3M fingerprint scanner; signature pad; MDF-Scan flow printers.
Maintain IT asset registers in various local offices. Facilitate disposal process
of IT assets providing technical reports for redundant and obsolete items.
Coordinate IT requirements (i.e. computers and all peripherals) of individual
offices with Head Office. Facilitate and implement application/ system support
in the district municipality. Identify and resolve problems causing disruption on
the operation of the business and in the network. Ensure the implementation
of effective risk and compliance in the unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
: Northern Cape: Mr W Masilonyana Tel No: (053) 807 6725
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:
KwaZulu-Natal: Physical address: 181 Church Street, Pietermaritzburg 3209
Northern Cape: Physical Address: Quantum Leap Building, 69 Du Toitspan
Road, Kimberley, 8300.
POST 24/81 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE REF NO: HRMC
47/26/9
Directorate: People Benefits
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07), (a salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management, Public
Management, Public Administration at an NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA.
2 years experience in Human Resource Management environment is required.
Knowledge of the Human Resource Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the
66
Public Management Framework (Acts, Regulations, and Directives).
Understanding of relevant Departmental policy and prescripts. Knowledge of
PERSAL. Knowledge of Performance Management and Development
Systems (PMDS). A drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to
travel and work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Customer
Care and Client Services. Liaison and interpersonal skills. Problem Solving.
Report Writing Skills. Influencing and Networking. Planning and Organising.
Analytical Skills. Investigation skills. Computer Literacy. Patriotism, Honesty,
Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Administer and implement service benefits processes of
employees in the Department. Provide advice to employees in the Department
on state guarantees, housing allowance, and stop orders. Verify the registration
of Housing Owners allowance on PERSAL as well as updates through Stop
Orders (For both Home Owners and Tenets). Verify the implementation of
withdrawal of individual employee’s savings, where applicable. Provide advice
to employees on Medical Aid processes and procedures. Administer and
implement injury on duty process and provide feedback to employees on the
status of the application. Verify the implementation of employee remunerative
allowances and advise finance on payments (i.e. long service and
reconciliations, danger allowance, acting in higher post, role playing allowance
and relocation claims-resettlements, etc). Administer and verify the registration
of approved overtime submission with name list of employees on PERSAL.
Analyse and monitor state guarantees, housing allowances, and stop orders
on a monthly basis. Liaise with other Departments/ Financial Institutes on the
transferring of home ownership. Liaise with Finance regarding any arrears’
payment/ deductions for affected employees. Administer the implementation of
leave processes in the Department. Administer and implement the termination
of services process. Implement effective risk and compliance management
practices. Provide office administration Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms R Masemola Tel No: (012) 406 4156
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
hrrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 24/82 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO HRMC 47/26/10
Directorate: Permit Functional Services
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07), (a salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Office Management and Technology,
Business Management, Administration Management at an NQF level 6 as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 1 Year experience as an Administration
Clerk is required. Knowledge of various filing system. Knowledge of the Public
Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of Office Administration
methodologies. Knowledge of Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA) and National Treasury Regulations.
Understanding of the Departmental Legislation and Prescripts. Knowledge of
Supply Chain Management Process and procedures. Knowledge of Human
Resources Regulatory Framework. Willingness to work extended hours.
Required skills and competencies: Computer literacy. Analytic thinking,
Planning and organizing. Financial Administration. Interpersonal skills.
Customer focus. Verbal and written communication. Problem solving. Clerical
and administration. MS Office (MS Word, Excel, Power-Point). Office
administration. Financial administration. Multi-task. Result and achievement
focus. Teamwork. Time Management. Patriotism, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Implement administration operations in the unit. Perform general
administrative activities in support of the unit (filling, faxing, and copying). Draft
submissions, reports, submissions, memorandums, and minutes for the unit).
Conduct records and document management both manually and electronically.
Arrange and co-ordinate meetings and workshops. Provide logistic support
functions (make accommodation, flight and ground transport arrangements).
Monitor assets and audits in the unit. Administer the budget of the unit.
Perform/ assist in completing and processing subsistence claims. Keep track
67
of all incoming work and ensure that all deadlines are met. Liaise with all
stakeholders relevant to the office. Provide office administration services in the
functional unit. Ensure innovation and service delivery within the Unit. Ensure
the implementation of effective risk and compliance management practices.
Administer leave arrangements and audits. Process forms and documents
related to claims, payments, invoices and consultant fees relevant to the office.
Provide office administration Ensure effective and efficient management of
human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff
on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr S Tshabalala Tel No: (012) 406 4117
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
imsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
68
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. B To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful completion of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three
(3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. NB: Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by
applicants will be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a
criminal case shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your application
before the closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do not
submit duplicate applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate
applications for each post. Applications submitted via email will be
acknowledged via an automated response. Applications received manually will
not be acknowledged due to high volumes of applications received. If you have
not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 24/83 : DISTRICT DIRECTOR REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/143
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Directorate: Mopani District Office: Limpopo
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Business
Administration / Public Management / Public Administration / Project
69
Management / Bachelor of Arts in Sociology / Anthropology / Community
Development Studies (NQF level 7) or related equivalent qualification and a
Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to
appointment. Minimum of 5 years of experience at middle / senior managerial
level in the relevant environment. Experience in the implementation and
management of projects. A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: A
thorough understanding of project management. Understanding of corporate
governance principles. Ability to implement performance management and
monitoring systems. Knowledge of government systems. Ability to think
conceptually when analysing data designing concepts to modify corporate
policies, procedures and processes. Job related skills: Project management.
Coaching and mentoring (though leadership). Analytical thinking. Adaptability
and flexibility. Customer service. Initiative. Innovation and creativity.
Communication (verbal and written). Computer literate. Willingness to travel.
Ability to work under pressure. Willingness to work after hours.
DUTIES : Provide capacity building and National Rural Youth Service Corps (NARYSEC)
services. Provide NARYSEC support services. Facilitate the establishment and
support of participatory community development. Facilitate and coordinate
NARYSEC project implementation. Facilitate youth programmes and skills
development at provincial and district level. Reduce household poverty in
accordance with comprehensive Rural Development Programme (CRDP).
Provide strategic land acquisition services. Implement strategic land
acquisition projects proposals. Procure service providers for development of
project proposals. Coordinate the implementation process of land acquisition.
Provide strategic land acquisition support services in the district. Facilitate
poverty reduction, and the development of cooperatives, rural enterprises and
industries. Promote rural businesses development and facilitate rural
development financing. Facilitate establishment and support of primary
cooperatives. Facilitate organisation of primary cooperatives into secondary
and tertiary cooperative sand provide support. Facilitate the development of
rural enterprises and industries. Provide land development support services.
Manage the development of business plans for the development or agrarian
development projects. Promote the participation of farmers through ownership
and control across commodities value chains. Monitor the implementation of
land development support projects and development business plans. Provide
property management services. Administer and provide property leases
administration. Administer and provide property holdings and disposable.
Implement land rights and tenure reform programmes. Provide communal land
tenure programmes. Provide land rights programmes. Establish, maintain, and
support communal property institutions. Facilitate land dispute resolutions.
Render corporate and financial support services. Provide legal advice. Provide
telecommunications services. Provide administration and financial support
services. Provide client relations services. Provide office services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms DT Machoga Tel No: (015) 495 1955
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 61
Biccard street, Polokwane, 0700 or by email to Post143@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 24/84 : DIRECTOR: INFORMATION SERVICES REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/151
Directorate: Information Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and an NQF Level 7 Degree recognised by the South African
Geomatics Council as satisfying Section 8 (1) (d) (iii), (v) and (vi) of the
Geomatics Professions Act, 2013, specifically a three-year Bachelor’s Degree
in Geomatics / Surveying, or related equivalent qualification and a Nyukela
certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment.
Registered as Geomatics Professional, Geomatics Technologist or Geomatics
Technician with the South African Geomatics Council (SAGC). A valid driver’s
licence. Minimum of 5 years of experience at middle / senior managerial level
in cadastral survey environment. Appropriate post registration experience in
cadastral surveying. Job related knowledge: Cadastral Survey. Technical
70
System. Cadastral Spatial Information. Land Information Systems, Land
Administration Systems and Geographical Information Management.
Advances in technology useful to the Cadastral Survey System. Performance
management and monitoring. Government systems and structures.
Government decision making processes. Programme setting process.
Understanding of the management information and formal reporting system.
Dealing with misconduct. Internal control and risk management. Project
management principles and tools. The political landscape of South Africa. Job
related skills: Project management. Team management. Interpersonal
relations. Budget forecasting. Computer literacy. Resource planning. Problem
solving and decision-making. Time management. Business ability.
Communication (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Take responsibility for the completeness, correctness and currency of the
approved cadastral documents of the Surveyor-General. Record deductions
and preparations of certificates of remainders. Maintain documents and
registers to ensure perpetual legibility and usefulness. Amend and withdraw
cadastral documents. Oversee the management of the archiving of cadastral
documents and information. Maintain a strong room for secure safe archiving
of all cadastral documents. Insert every approved cadastral document into the
archive. Oversee the management of the provision of complete current,
accurate and correct cadastral information. Provide hard copies and electronic
images of approved cadastral documents. Provide certified copies of cadastral
documents for registration purposes. Ensure that all approved documents are
available to the general public via the Chief Surveyor-General webpage.
Produce maps and plans from cadastral spatial information. Attend to bulk
request for digital cadastral spatial information within the area of the Surveyor-
Generals jurisdiction. Issue cadastral data to Professional Land Surveyors.
Supply maps, aerial photographs and rectified earth imagery produced from
national mapping agency. Oversee the maintenance of cadastral
correspondence filling system. Oversee the receipt and dispatch of cadastral
documents submitted for examination and approval. Ensure that the necessary
fees of office have been paid prior to the acceptance of cadastral documents
into the filing system. Oversee the archiving of all (correspondence /
documents). Oversee the maintenance of the cadastral correspondence filing
system. Oversee the rendering of messenger services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M. Kekana Tel No: (012) 312 8344
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 524
Stanza Bopape and Steve Biko Street, Suncardia Building, 6th Floor, Arcadia,
0002 or by email to Post151@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 24/85 : DIRECTOR: INFORMATION SERVICES REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/152
Directorate: Information Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Cape Town)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and an NQF Level 7 Degree recognised by the South African
Geomatics Council as satisfying Section 8 (1) (d) (iii), (v) and (vi) of the
Geomatics Professions Act, 2013, specifically a three-year Bachelor’s Degree
in Geomatics / Surveying, or related equivalent qualification and a Nyukela
certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to appointment.
Registered as Geomatics Professional, Geomatics Technologist or Geomatics
Technician with the South African Geomatics Council (SAGC). A valid driver’s
licence. Minimum of 5 years of experience at middle / senior managerial level
in cadastral survey environment. Appropriate post registration experience in
cadastral surveying. Job related knowledge: Cadastral Survey. Technical
System. Cadastral Spatial Information. Land Information Systems, Land
Administration Systems and Geographical Information Management.
Advances in technology useful to the Cadastral Survey System. Performance
management and monitoring. Government systems and structures.
Government decision making processes. Programme setting process.
Understanding of the management information and formal reporting system.
Dealing with misconduct. Internal control and risk management. Project
71
management principles and tools. The political landscape of South Africa. Job
related skills: Project management. Team management. Interpersonal
relations. Budget forecasting. Computer literacy. Resource planning. Problem
solving and decision-making. Time management. Business ability.
Communication (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Take responsibility for the completeness, correctness and currency of the
approved cadastral documents of the Surveyor-General. Record deductions
and preparations of certificates of remainders. Maintain documents and
registers to ensure perpetual legibility and usefulness. Amend and withdraw
cadastral documents. Oversee the management of the archiving of cadastral
documents and information. Maintain a strong room for secure safe archiving
of all cadastral documents. Insert every approved cadastral document into the
archive. Oversee the management of the provision of complete current,
accurate and correct cadastral information. Provide hard copies and electronic
images of approved cadastral documents. Provide certified copies of cadastral
documents for registration purposes. Ensure that all approved documents are
available to the general public via the Chief Surveyor-General webpage.
Produce maps and plans from cadastral spatial information. Attend to bulk
request for digital cadastral spatial information within the area of the Surveyor-
Generals jurisdiction. Issue cadastral data to Professional Land Surveyors.
Supply maps, aerial photographs and rectified earth imagery produced from
national mapping agency. Oversee the maintenance of cadastral
correspondence filling system. Oversee the receipt and dispatch of cadastral
documents submitted for examination and approval. Ensure that the necessary
fees of office have been paid prior to the acceptance of cadastral documents
into the filing system. Oversee the archiving of all (correspondence /
documents). Oversee the maintenance of the cadastral correspondence filing
system. Oversee the rendering of messenger services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M. Kekana Tel No: (012) 312 8344
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 4th floor,
No 2 Riebeeck Street, ABSA Building, Cape Town or by email to
Post152@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/86 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC LAND ACQUISITION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/150
Directorate: Strategic Land Acquisition
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Agricultural Studies / Agricultural
Economics / Development Studies / Town and Regional Planning / Public
Administration / Social Sciences / Public Management / Real Estate / Property
Management or related equivalent qualifications (NQF Level 6). Minimum of 3
years relevant experience at junior management level. A valid driver's licence
Job related knowledge: Land Reform: Provision of Land and Assistance Act,
126 of 1993 as amended. Labour Tenants Act, 3 of 1996. Restitution of Land
Rights Act, 22 of 1994. Extension Security of Tenure Act, 62 of 1997 as
amended. State land lease and disposal policy. Beneficiary selection and land
allocation policy. Knowledge of post settlement support programmes.
Knowledge of agrarian transformation as well as key priorities of government.
Knowledge of Comprehensive Rural Development Programmes (CRDP) and
Land reform prescripts and other relevant departmental prescripts. Job related
skills: Communication (verbal and written). Strategic management. Negotiation
and conflict resolution. Computer literacy. Stakeholder relations. Facilitation /
coordination. Ability to present. Financial management. Project management.
Interpersonal relations. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Manage the acquisition of strategically located land aligned to the national
imperatives. Identify strategically located land suitable for acquisition by the
State in consultation with relevant stakeholders. Develop project register of
land for acquisition by the State. Facilitate mapping and overlaying of the
identified land with key commodities and national imperatives. Coordinate the
72
assessment and valuation of identified properties. Align acquired land to other
departmental interventions and programmes. Monitor updates of projects in
terms of the Enterprise Project Management Office (EPMO) requirements.
Manage the selection of suitable candidates and allocation of land. Ensure
quality assurance and information management services at district level.
Ensure that the land allocation process is compliant to the Beneficiary
Selection Policy. Manage the selection process of beneficiaries for the land
allocation. Link selected beneficiaries to relevant training unit. Manage land
allocation process through relevant approval structures. Manage land
acquisition and allocation support services within the district. Facilitate land
acquisition procedures within relevant policy and programme guidelines.
Provide support on land acquisition approval process through relevant
structures. Coordinate the liaison with relevant role-players / stakeholders with
regards to land acquisition projects support requirements. Maintain the land
application system / database. Maintain credible land application system /
database. Provide management information report to relevant approval
structures and departmental management.
ENQUIRIES : DT Machoga Tel No: (015) 495 1955 / LS Mahasha Tel No: (015) 495 1956
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 61
Biccard street, Polokwane, 0700 or by email to Post150@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 24/87 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/145
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : North West (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Human Resource Management / Labour
Relations / Human Resource Development / Public Administration / Public
Management (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3
years’ supervisory level experience in human resource management
environment. PERSAL Personnel Certificate, PERSAL Leave Administration
Certificate. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and experience in pension
administration. Job related knowledge: Employment Equity Act. Public Service
Regulations. Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Public Service Act. Skills
Development Act. Labour Relations Act. Public Service Co-ordinating
Bargaining Council (PSCBC) resolutions. Promotion of Access to Information
Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Public Finance
Management Act. Job related skills: Analytical thinking. Communication (verbal
and written). Computer literacy. Report writing. Problem solving.
DUTIES : Implement and monitor human resources prescripts. Implement human
resource management resolutions. Keep employees well informed on new
developments of human resource prescripts. Monitor employee benefits and
conditions of service. Oversee processing of service terminations timeously.
Check and ensure correct completion / submission of pension forms including
nomination forms. Keep and maintain database for submitted cases to
Government Employees Pension fund (GEPF). Follow-up on all outstanding
pension claims with GEPF. Assist deceased employee's family to claim funeral
benefit from GEPF. Identify, draw and keep annual list of all employees due for
retirement. Make payment follow-ups and attend to pension queries. Provide
feedback to pension beneficiaries. Recover all liabilities from pension
proceeds. Coordinate / conduct service benefits workshops. Ensure
compliance with the relevant prescripts when processing allowances. Ensure
correct implementation of allowances on PERSAL e.g. housing, acting etc.
Approve leave transactions and ensure that correct codes are used. Ensure
that leave applications comply with policies and prescripts. Ensure submission
of leave plans and adherence thereof. Verify correctness of incapacity
applications and ensure timeous submission to the Health Risk Manager.
Liaise with the Health Risk Manager regarding submitted incapacity
applications. Implement decision. Verify over granted leave prior to service
termination of officials. Check and verify leave gratuity / discounting
calculations and ensure correctness. Conduct workshops / induction on leave.
Conduct leave audit. Facilitate and implement performance management,
training and development. Check the database of Personal Development Plans
73
(PDPs). Consolidate provincial inputs of Workplace Skills Plan (WSP) which
addresses skills requirements. Check compliance of submissions of
employees requiring training. Coordinate provincial training and development
activities. Consolidate training statistics. Approve Employee Performance
Management and Development System (EPMDS) documents on PERSAL.
Ensure that EPMS stats is updated and submitted weekly. Arrange Moderating
Committee (MC) meetings. Check and quality assure MC outcome letters.
Compile memo for approval of performance rewards. Approve / authorise the
implemented performance rewards. Register System Change Control (SCC) to
correct service records of employees after payment of pay progression. Do
arrangements to process payments of employees who terminated service with
the Department. Arrange meetings to discuss dissatisfaction cases. Monitor
and implement recruitment and selection. Check funded and vacant post on
PERSAL. Verify submissions and supporting documents for advertisement.
Ensure that that employment equity targets are updated. Monitor adherence to
recruitment and selection plans. Check minutes and proceedings after the
shortlisting process. Check submission for selection of suitable candidates.
Confirm security screening and qualification screening results. Ensure that
posts are filled within the prescribed period. Approve appointments, transfers,
translation on PERSAL. Ensure that officials are correctly placed on PERSAL.
Facilitate and monitor employee relations processes. Monitor disciplinary
cases submitted for compliance with prescribed timeframes. Check progress
on the resolution of cases with National Office. Assist with the Implementation
of sanctions. Monitor compilation statistics on disciplinary cases submitted.
Facilitate meetings with organised labour. Provide advlse on grievances,
misconduct and discipline matters. Implement the disciplinary hearing
sanctions. Facilitate the resolution of grievances within the prescribed period.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Dipudi Tel No: (018) 388 7138
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Cnr
James Moroka and Sekame Drive, West Gallery, Megacity, Mmabatho, 2735
or by email to Post145@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 24/88 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN (GRADE A-C) REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/146
Directorate: Cadastral Information, Maintenance and Supply Services:
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who applied previously are encouraged
to re-apply.
SALARY : R407 337 – R610 131 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with the OSD
requirements)
CENTRE : Northwest (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Survey or Cartography (NQF Level 6).
Compulsory registration with South African Geomatics Council (SAGC) as a
Survey Technician / Surveyor. Minimum of 3 years post qualification technical
survey experience. A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Programme
and project management. Survey design and analysis knowledge. Research
and development. Computer-aided survey applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture. Job
related skills: Decision-making skills. Team leadership skills. Analytical skills.
Creativity. Self-management skills. Financial management skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Communication (verbal and written) skills.
Computer literacy. Planning and organizing skills. Conflict management skills.
Problem solving and analysis skills. People management skills. Innovation
skills.
DUTIES : Provide technical survey services and support. Provide technical services in
terms of examination, maintenance, archiving and information supply of survey
documents and submit for evaluation / approval by the relevant authority.
Perform surveys and survey computations. Promote safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Evaluate plans, existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Provide
Geographic Information System (GIS), mapping and information supply
services. Perform administrative and related functions. Provide inputs into the
budgeting process as required. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical survey operational plan.
Develop, implement and maintain databases. Supervise and control Candidate
74
Survey Technicians / Officers and related personnel and assets. Conduct
research and development. Render continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research / literature studies
on technical survey technology or new survey techniques to improve expertise.
Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on survey related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr FM Motimone Tel No: (018) 388 7230
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Cnr
James Moroka and Sekame Drive, West Gallery, Megacity, Mmabatho, 2735
or by email to Post146@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 24/89 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN (GRADE A-C) REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/147
Directorate: Examination Services
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who applied previously are encouraged
to re-apply.
SALARY : R407 337 – R610 131 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with the OSD
requirements)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Cape Town)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Survey or Cartography (NQF Level 6).
Compulsory registration with South African Geomatics Council (SAGC) as a
Survey Technician / Surveyor. Minimum of 3 years post qualification technical
survey experience. A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Programme
and project management. Survey design and analysis knowledge. Research
and development. Computer-aided survey applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture. Job
related skills: Decision-making skills. Team leadership skills. Analytical skills.
Creativity. Self-management skills. Financial management skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Communication (verbal and written) skills.
Computer literacy. Planning and organizing skills. Conflict management skills.
Problem solving and analysis skills. People management skills. Innovation
skills.
DUTIES : Provide technical survey services and support. Provide technical services in
terms of examination, maintenance, archiving and information supply of survey
documents and submit for evaluation / approval by the relevant authority.
Perform surveys and survey computations. Promote safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Evaluate plans, existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Provide
Geographic Information System (GIS), mapping and information supply
services. Perform administrative and related functions. Provide inputs into the
budgeting process as required. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical survey operational plan.
Develop, implement and maintain databases. Supervise and control Candidate
Survey Technicians / Officers and related personnel and assets. Conduct
research and development. Render continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research / literature studies
on technical survey technology or new survey techniques to improve expertise.
Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on survey related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Malinga at (082) 640 2603
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 4th floor,
No 2 Riebeeck Street, ABSA Building, Cape Town or by email to
Post147@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured
and Indian Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 24/90 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN (GRADE A-C) REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/148
Directorate: Cadastral Information, Maintenance and Supply Services
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who applied previously are encouraged
to re-apply.
SALARY : R407 337 – R610 131 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with the OSD
requirements)
CENTRE : Free State (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Survey or Cartography (NQF Level 6).
75
Compulsory registration with South African Geomatics Council (SAGC) as a
Survey Technician / Surveyor. Minimum of 3 years post qualification technical
survey experience. A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Programme
and project management. Survey design and analysis knowledge. Research
and development. Computer-aided survey applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture. Job
related skills: Decision-making skills. Team leadership skills. Analytical skills.
Creativity. Self-management skills. Financial management skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Communication (verbal and written) skills.
Computer literacy. Planning and organizing skills. Conflict management skills.
Problem solving and analysis skills. People management skills. Innovation
skills.
DUTIES : Provide technical survey services and support. Provide technical services in
terms of examination, maintenance, archiving and information supply of survey
documents and submit for evaluation / approval by the relevant authority.
Perform surveys and survey computations. Promote safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Evaluate plans, existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Provide
Geographic Information System (GIS), mapping and information supply
services. Perform administrative and related functions. Provide inputs into the
budgeting process as required. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical survey operational plan.
Develop, implement and maintain databases. Supervise and control Candidate
Survey Technicians / Officers and related personnel and assets. Conduct
research and development. Render continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research / literature studies
on technical survey technology or new survey techniques to improve expertise.
Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on survey related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms BG Mtshali Tel No: (051) 448 0955
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 136
Charlotte Maxeke Street, SA Eagle Building, Bloemfontein, 9300 or by email to
Post148@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE TARGETS: African, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured and
Indian Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 24/91 : SURVEY TECHNICIAN (GRADE A-C) REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/149
Directorate: Examination Services
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who applied previously are encouraged
to re-apply.
SALARY : R407 337 – R610 131 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with the OSD
requirements)
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal (Pietermaritzburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Survey or Cartography (NQF Level 6).
Compulsory registration with South African Geomatics Council (SAGC) as a
Survey Technician / Surveyor. Minimum of 3 years post qualification technical
survey experience. A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Programme
and project management. Survey design and analysis knowledge. Research
and development. Computer-aided survey applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture. Job
related skills: Decision-making skills. Team leadership skills. Analytical skills.
Creativity. Self-management skills. Financial management skills. Customer
focus and responsiveness. Communication (verbal and written) skills.
Computer literacy. Planning and organizing skills. Conflict management skills.
Problem solving and analysis skills. People management skills. Innovation
skills.
DUTIES : Provide technical survey services and support. Provide technical services in
terms of examination, maintenance, archiving and information supply of survey
documents and submit for evaluation / approval by the relevant authority.
Perform surveys and survey computations. Promote safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements. Evaluate plans, existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Provide
Geographic Information System (GIS), mapping and information supply
services. Perform administrative and related functions. Provide inputs into the
budgeting process as required. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical survey operational plan.
76
Develop, implement and maintain databases. Supervise and control Candidate
Survey Technicians / Officers and related personnel and assets. Conduct
research and development. Render continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures. Research / literature studies
on technical survey technology or new survey techniques to improve expertise.
Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on survey related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Ngubane Tel No: (033) 355 2900
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 1st Floor,
270 Jabu Ndlovu Street (formerly known as Loop Street), Pietermaritzburg,
3200 or by email to Post14@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 24/92 : SECRETARY REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/141
Directorate: Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job related knowledge: Computer literacy (Microsoft Word,
Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, etc.) Job related skills: Good telephone etiquette.
Sound organisational ability. Good people skills. Computer literacy. Ability to
communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds (both written and verbal). Ability to act with tact and discretion.
DUTIES : Provide a secretariat / receptionist support service to the Director. Receive
telephone calls and refer the calls to the correct role players if not meant for
the relevant senior manager. Record appointments and events in the diary.
Type documents for the senior manager and other staff within the unit. Operate
office equipment e.g. computers and photocopiers. Provide a clerical support
service to the Senior Manager. Liaise with travel agencies to make travel
arrangements. Check arrangements when relevant documents are received.
Arrange meetings and events for the senior manager and the staff in the unit.
Identifies venues, invite role players, organise refreshments and sets up
schedules for meeting and events. Process the travel and subsistence claims
for the unit. Process all invoices that emanate from the activities of the work of
the senior manager. Records basic minutes of meetings of the senior manager
where required. Draft routine correspondence and reports. Do filing of
documents for the senior manager and the unit where necessary. Administer
matters like leave registers and telephonic accounts. Receive, records and
distributes all incoming and outgoing documents. Handle the procurement of
standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. Collects all relevant
documents to enable the Director to prepare for meetings. Remains up to date
with regard to prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to her / his work
environment to ensure efficient and effective support to the senior manager.
Study the relevant public service and the departmental prescripts / policies and
other documents to ensure that the application thereof is understood properly.
Keep abreast with the procedures and process that apply in the office of the
senior manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LS Mahasha Tel No: (015) 495 1956
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 61
Biccard street, Polokwane, 0700 or by email to Post141@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 24/93 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/142
Directorate: Quality Assurance and Administration
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of registry duties, practices as
well as the ability to capture data, and operate a computer. Working knowledge
and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Job related skills. Planning
and organisation. Computer literacy. communication (verbal and written).
Interpersonal relations. Ability to work within a team.
77
DUTIES : Manage operations to achieve planned outcomes. Provide registry counter
services. Attend to clients. Handle telephonic and other enquiries received.
Receive and register hand delivered mail / files. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Receive all mail. Sort, register and dispatch mail. Distribute
notices on registry issues. Render an effective filing and record management
service. Open and close files according to record classification system. Filing /
storage, tracing (electronically / manually) and retrieval of documents and files.
Operate office machines in relation to the registry function. Process documents
for archiving and / disposal. Electronic scanning of files. Sort and package files
for archives and distribution. Compile list of documents to be archived and
submit to the supervisor. Keep records for archived documents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MS Nkuna Tel No: (015) 495 1905
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 61
Biccard street, Polokwane, 0700 or by email to Post142@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 24/94 : FINANCE CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/144
Directorate: Financial And Supply Chain Management Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal (Pietermaritzburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job related knowledge: Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate a computer and collate
financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial
legislations procedures and Treasury Regulations (Public Finance
Management Act, Division of Revenue Act, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, Financial
Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS,
LOGIS, etc). Job related skills: Planning and organisational. Computer literacy.
Communication (verbal and written). Basic numeracy.
DUTIES : Render financial accounting transactions. Receive invoices. Check invoices for
correctness, verification and approval (internal control). Process invoices (e.g.
capture payments). Filing of all documents. Collection of cash. Perform salary
administration support services. Receive salary advices. Process advices (e.g.
check advices for correctness, capture salaries, bonuses, salary adjustments,
capture all deductions etc). File all documents. Perform bookkeeping support
services. Capture all financial transactions. Clear suspense accounts. Record
debtors and creditors. Process electronic banking transactions. Compile
journals. Monitor and follow up on debtor accounts. Register new debts. Follow
up on debt related submissions (State Attorney cases etc). Send statements to
debtors monthly either by post or by email. Render a budget support service.
Collect information from budget holders. Compare expenditure against budget.
Identify variances. Capture, allocate virements on the budgets. Distribute
documents regarding the budget. File all documents. Receive and capture
cash payments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Motumi Tel No: (033) 264 9580
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 1st Floor,
270 Jabu Ndlovu Street (formerly known as Loop Street), Pietermaritzburg,
3200 or by email to Post144@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
78
ANNEXURE M
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are
encouraged to apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and
the NPA Employment Equity Strategy will take highest preference in the selection of suitable candidates.
CLOSING DATE : 27 July 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response e-
mail addresses stated below. Applicants must submit applications on the most
recent Z83 form, which can be obtained on the website of any Public Service
Department or on the DPSA website link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. The Z83 must be accompanied by a
comprehensive CV (describe details of previous legal experience). Failure to
submit applications in the prescribed manner, will result in your application
being disqualified. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents inclusive of a
copy of Academic Record for final year LLB students on or before the day of
the interview, following communication from Human Resources. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by
SAQA. Applicants must apply to only one (1) training centre. Should an
application be submitted to more than one (1) training centre the application
will be disqualified from the process. All applications must reach the NPA on/or
before the closing date. No late applications will be accepted/processed. The
NPA cannot be held responsible for server delays. Applicants’ attention is
drawn to the fact that the NPA uses an Electronic Response Handling System.
Documents should not be password protected, zip files will be blocked. Should
the application be submitted in any of the format mentioned, such application
will be disqualified and not be processed further. Applications submitted in any
other way other than the published e-mail address will be treated as invalid.
Please DO NOT contact the NPA directly after you have e-mailed your
application to enquire if your application has been received. If you have not
received an acknowledgement of receipt within one week after the closing date,
please also check your spam inbox, only then may you contact the NPA through
the enquiries person listed in the advert. The NPA reserves the right not to fill
any particular position. If you do not hear from us within six (6) months from
the closing date of the advert, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Successful candidates will be subjected to a security clearance
of at least confidential. Appointment to this position will be provisional, pending
the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the
interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be accessed
as part of the verification process. Applicants are advised that as from 1
January 2021 a new Z83 application form is in use. The new application for
employment form (Z83) can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies.
From 1 January 2021 should an application be received using the incorrect
(old) application for employment (Z83), it will not be considered. NB! Applicants
who are successful must please note that The NPA is not in a position to pay
resettlement costs.
TRAINING PROGRAM 2027/2028
OTHER POST
POST 24/95 : ASPIRANT PROSECUTOR TRAINING
National Prosecutions Service
(12 months training program)
SALARY : R262 968 – R304 299 per annum (LP-1 to LP-2)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Ref No: APTJHB27)
Randburg (Ref No: APTRAN27)
Protea (Ref No: APTPRO27)
Benoni (Vaal Rand Cluster) (Ref No: APTBEN27)
Evander (Witbank Cluster) (Ref No: APTEVA27)
Madadeni (Ladysmith Cluster) (Ref No: APTMAD27)
Welkom (Ref No: APTWEL27)
79
Bloemfontein (Ref No: APTBFN27)
Kimberley (Ref No: APTKIM27)
Bellville (Ref No: APTBELL27)
George (Ref No: APTGEO27)
Klerksdorp (Ref No: APTKLE27)
Mahwelereng (Modimolle Cluster) (Ref No: APTMOD27)
Polokwane (Ref No: APTPLK27)
Makhado (Thohoyandou Cluster) (Ref No: APTMAK27)
Port Elizabeth (Ref No: APTPLZ27)
Mthatha (Ref No: APTMTH27)
REQUIREMENTS : LLB degree or equivalent foreign qualification supported by proof of
accreditation of qualifications from SAQA. Final year LLB students may apply,
provided that the LLB degree will be completed before the start date of the
programme. Applicants must be South African citizen. Demonstrable
competency in acting Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with
Credibility.
DUTIES : Successful candidates once appointed will undergo a 12-month training
programme. There will be continuous assessment throughout the programme
to determine competence to be appointed as a Prosecutor. Conditions: When
carrying out their duties, Prosecutors are always required to comply with the
Code of Conduct and observe Policy Directives as determined and issued by
the National Director of Public Prosecutions. A written contract between the
National Prosecuting Authority and the Aspirant Prosecutor outlining the
conditions of service shall be entered into and such contract will be valid and
binding between the parties. An entry examination will be written which will form
part of the selection process and only candidates successful in the examination
based on the criteria decided will be allowed to the next level of the selection
process. Aspirant Prosecutors who successfully completed the programme
may not be placed permanently or on contract as District Court Prosecutors
within the centre/cluster or division where they were trained. Placement is at
the discretion of the NPA at any office in the country. Where an offer of
permanent placement against a vacant post is made after the training and is
declined, it will be regarded as a termination of contract employment. It is
anticipated that the program will commence on 1 March 2027. All successful
candidates must be available to accept the offer to commence with the training
programme at the start of the programme. No request to start later than the
commencement date will be entertained. Applicants must be available for the
full 12-month period of the training. An updated entry examination study guide
is available on the NPA Website.
ENQUIRIES : Gija Maswanganyi Tel No: (012) 845 6944; Sharon Ntseo Tel No: (012) 845
6664; Pfanani Malova Tel No: (012) 845 6953
APPLICATIONS : Johannesburg e mail APTJHB27@npa.gov.za
Randburg e mail APTRAN27@npa.gov.za
Protea e mail APTPRO27@npa.gov.za
Benoni (Vaal Rand Cluster) e mail APTBEN27@npa.gov.za
Evander (Witbank Cluster) e mail APTEVA27@npa.gov.za
Madadeni (Ladysmith Cluster) e mail APTMAD27@npa.gov.za
Welkom e mail APTWEL27@npa.gov.za
Bloemfontein e mail APTBFN27@npa.gov.za
Kimberley e mail (Ref: APTKIM27@npa.gov.za
Bellville e mail APTBELL27@npa.gov.za
George e mail APTGEO27@npa.gov.za
Klerksdorp e mail APTKLE27@npa.gov.za
Mahwelereng (Modimolle Cluster) e mail APTMOD27@npa.gov.za
Polokwane e mail APTPLK27@npa.gov.za
Makhado (Thohoyandou Cluster) e mail APTMAK27@npa.gov.za
Port Elizabeth e mail APTPLZ27@npa.gov.za
Mthatha e mail APTMTH27@npa.gov.za
80
ANNEXURE N
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office: Midrand/Constitutional Court: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Director: Human Resources,
Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand
deliver applications to the Office of the Chief Justice, Human Resource
Management, 188, 14th Road, Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Gauteng/Pretoria/Johannesburg: Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the
relevant reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head,
Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications
can also be hand delivered to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street,
Johannesburg.
Mpumalanga: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X20051,
Mbombela, 1211. Applications can also be hand delivered to, Mpumalanga
Division of the High Court, Office of the Chief Justice Provincial Service Centre,
311 Samora Machel Drive, Mbombela, 1200
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. Applicants could be required to
provide consent for access to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment
for SMS, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme:
Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA
which is an online course, endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry
into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
81
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/96 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2026/70/OCJ
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package, consisting
of 70%/ 75% basic salary and 30%/25% flexible portion that may be structured
in terms of the applicable rules. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Constitutional Court: Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a minimum of a three (03) years National
Diploma in Security and Risk Management / equivalent qualification at NQF
level 6 with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of five (5) years’
experience of which three (3) years should be at ASD/Junior Management level
in the relevant field. A valid driver’s License, Grade A Private Security Industry
Regulation Authority (PSIRA) certificate or Training concluded with the
registered security training service provider. The PSIRA certificate must be
submitted within 3 months of appointment. Proficiency in security risk
management and security design will be an added advantage. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge and
skills: Security Policy and Procedures, Risk Management Policy, OHS Act,
Knowledge of Vetting Policy, knowledge of Security Management Processes,
Public service regulations, 2016, Public Service Act, MISS, PFMA Act,
Republic of South Africa Constitution. Financial management, Presentation
skills, Project Management Skills, Planning and Organising Skills, Analytical
and Decision-Making Skills, Problem Solving Skills, Decision making skills,
Strategic and analytical skills, Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee the effective and efficient use and deployment of
resources, manage event security for the Judiciary and the OCJ, manage
effective close and static security services to the Judiciary, manage security
assessments, investigations and recommend measures for the Judiciary and
manage the Sub Directorate
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. Z Sondlo Tel No: (011) 359 7400
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. K Mokgatlhe Tel No: (011) 359 7400
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/70/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 24/97 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2026/71/OCJ
Re-advertisement, candidates who previously applied are encouraged to
reapply
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Building
Management/Construction Management/Project Management/Property/Real
Estate Management at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA.
A minimum of 3 years’ experience in Facilities and Auxiliary services, of which
one (1) year should be at supervisory level at salary level 7 or 8 / junior
management level. A valid driver’s license will serve as an added advantage.
All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part
82
of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on
the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills:
Occupational Health and Safety Act and other Building Regulations, general
built environment including mechanical, electrical Water Services Act, National
Environmental Management Act 107 of 1998 (NEMA), Horticultural processes
and Cleaning Industry, Public Finance Management Act, (PFMA), Supply
Chain Management framework, Government Budget processes and
procedures, report writing, project management and implementation. analytical
skills, communication skills (written and verbal), computer literacy skills,
research and planning skills, report writing skills, interpersonal relations and
problem solving skills.
DUTIES : Ensure the implementation of facilities and infrastructure projects at OCJ
service centres, conduct accommodation needs audit with service centres,
consolidate User Assets Management Plan (UAMP) for OCJ, manage office
space planning and parking allocation, ensure day-to-day maintenance
function for OCJ service centres, develop maintenance plan for OCJ,
coordinate and monitor maintenance services, monitor and report on the status
and progress of maintenance and update Action Log, execute operations
related to facilities within OCJ, ensure management of contracts within OCJ,
provide support in management of expenditure within sub directorate,
implement and ensure compliance to facilities polices and Standard Operating
Procedures (SOP), coordinate the facilities and auxiliary services for the OCJ,
compile specifications and handle inspections in the cleaning field, manage
and control equipment and material register, coordinate outsourced services
within the OCJ, manage resources, ensure general supervision and
development of employees including training, allocate duties and perform
quality control on the work delivered by officials, mentor and coach staff.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr M Masilo Tel No: (010) 493 2518
HR Related Enquiries: Mr K Mphela Tel No: (010) 493 2527
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/71/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 24/98 : WEBMASTER REF NO: 2026/72/OCJ
SALARY : R487 197 – R579 897 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Constitutional Court: Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Web Design/
Computer Science or relevant qualification at NQF Level 6 with 360 credits as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in the relevant
field of which one (1) year should be at supervisory level at salary level 7 or 8
/ junior management level. A valid driver’s license. A Postgraduate qualification
in Web Design/Computer Science will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge
and experience in Azure and CRM Dynamics, knowledge and understanding
of C/C++, Visual. Basic, C#, Java, XML, Angular and any BI reporting tool,
knowledge of Search Engine Optimization process, adequate knowledge of
relational database systems Object Ori, solid knowledge and experience in
programming applications, solid understanding of how web applications work
including security, session management, and best development practices,
experience (UX) and client-side technologies including HTML5, CSS, PHP,
jQuery and JSON and mobile frameworks, knowledge of programming
language and technical terminology, good computer literacy, good
communication (verbal & written) skills, presentation skills, project
management skills, planning and organising skills, analytical skills, technical
skills, problem solving skills and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Maintain website content and compliance in line with standard practices,
maintain the quality, design and style of the organisational website in line with
the website style guide and website policy, ensure website security and data
protection by implementing necessary measures and protocols, maintain web
platforms Security Validation Programme and databases, monitor site traffic
and resolve technical issues to optimise site performance for search engines
(Google, Bing, Yahoo) and AI Harvesting, implement website troubleshooting
and optimisation, keep abreast with emerging technologies/industry trends and
83
apply them on operations, training and activities, provide advice on new
website designs and upgrade implementation, attend to all administrative
duties as directed by the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr. A Mdletshe Tel No: (011) 359 7472
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. K Mokgatlhe Tel No: (011) 359 7400
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/72/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
POST 24/99 : REGISTRAR REF NO: 2026/73/OCJ
SALARY : R337 563 - R1 155 777 per annum (MR3-MR5). Salary will be in accordance
with Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a service certificate/s for determination of
their experience. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of the High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB degree at NQF level 8 as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of two (2) years’ experience in Legal
environment (certificates of service must accompany the application). MR3:
LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of two (2) years post qualification
experience in legal environment. MR4: LLB degree or equivalent qualification
plus a minimum of eight (8) years post qualification experience in a legal
profession environment (certificates of service must accompany the
application). MR5: LLB degree or equivalent qualification plus a minimum of 14
years post qualification experience in a legal profession environment
(certificates of service must accompany the application). A valid driver’s
license, Superior Court or litigation experience and supervisory experience will
serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-
entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of Case Flow Management, knowledge of
the legislative frameworks governing the public service, excellent
communication skills (verbal and written), planning and organising skills,
problem solving skills, numerical skills, attention to details, professionalism,
strong work ethics, conflict management skills, time management and ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Process default judgments to enhance efficiency of the Court in handling of
quasi- judicial functions, consider applications for default judgment (Rule 31[5])
by applying Court rules and regulations, case law, discretion and knowledge,
ensure circulation of the outcome to the relevant litigating party, capture and
update accurate Default applications register and data tool registered in the
Office daily, verify data and submit reporting tool on percentage of default
judgments granted by Registrars to the Statistician, execute taxations to
enhance efficiency of the Court in handling of quasi-judicial functions,
determine whether pleadings/ processes comply with the Court rules, Tax bills
of cost by hearing arguments from the parties and apply discretion and
knowledge to the reasonable litigation costs, process and finalise opposed and
Unopposed Taxations in accordance with SOP, deal with and finalise taxation
reviews (Rule 48) through the drafting of stated cases, replies, and submission
to the Judiciary, finalise taxation reviews (Rule 48) through the drafting of stated
cases, replies, and submission to the Judiciary, capture and update accurate
Bills of costs registered and data tools in the Office, submit reporting Tool on
Taxations to the Statistician, verify data and submit reporting taxations dealt
with by Registrars to the Statistician, manage criminal/civil process to enhance
efficiency of the court, analyse statistical data to assess trends and devise
strategies to address identified risk factors, resolve Presidential Hotline queries
and chapter 9 institution enquiries, cordinate and report on the provision of
support staff in Court rooms and Registrars supporting offices, manage the
allocation of performance information/ data/ Statistics for purpose of reporting
as per Reporting Tools. Maintain and update manual registers for Audit of
reported Performance information, supervise and develop staff, ensure general
supervision of employees, allocate duties and perform quality control on the
work delivered by officials, manage leave of staff, advise and lead supervisees
with regard to all aspects of the work, manage performance, conduct and
discipline of employees, ensure that all employees are trained and developed
to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and effectively,
84
develop, implement and monitor work systems and processes to ensure
efficient and effective functioning, address enquiries and provide advice and
guidance on asset allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms S Kajee Tel No: (010) 494 8486
HR Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/73/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 24/100 : PRINCIPAL LIBRARIAN: CATALOGUING REF NO:2026/74/OCJ
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Constitutional Court: Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Library and
Information Science /Record Management/Information Studies or a relevant
qualification at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of two (2) years’ experience in Library environment. A valid driver’s
license and a post graduate qualification in library and information
science/studies will serve as added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of legal library environment as
well as comparative research and international legal matters in South African.
Knowledge of Library OPAC systems, computer Literacy (MS Office, Power
point, Outlook, Word, Excel & Internet), report writing skills, research and
planning skills, excellent communication skills (written and verbal) and
Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Develop the catalogue in line with the international library standards, download
the best bibliographic records from Smartport, UKM and OCLC, ensure the
distribution of catalogued materials, ensure materials are easily retrieved from
shelves, administer the classification of the library collection, coordinate and
maintain collections relating to previous editions and non-book materials;
Identify and remove reference works and serial publications from the general
book collection, ensure that catalogued materials are relevant to library users’
needs, update and administer previous editions, coordinate assets
management within the Constitutional Court library, conduct asset verification
and stocktaking of the library materials, bar code and add records to library
management system and entries in the library asset register, remove outdated
books from shelves, update the library system and asset register with the
written off previous materials, ensure the implementation of disposal of books,
attend to queries relating to unverified library materials, supervise and develop
staff, ensure general supervision of employees, allocate duties and perform
quality control on the work delivered by officials, manage leave of staff, advise
and lead supervisees regarding all aspects of the work; manage performance,
conduct and discipline of employees, ensure that all employees are trained and
developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and
effectively, attend to enquires and provide advice and guidance on asset
allocation and control, develop, implement and monitor work systems and
processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr. A. Mdletshe Tel No: (011) 359 7472
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. K Mokgatlhe Tel No: (011) 359 7400
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/74/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 24/101 : LIBRARY ASSISTANT REF NO:2026/75/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Division of the High Court: Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade twelve (12) Certificate. Relevant
experience required. A three (3) year National Diploma/Degree in Library
Science, Information Science or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 as
recognised by SAQA will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the
85
post’s technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: knowledge
and understanding of technical or professional aspects of work, knowledge of
information and library systems, Knowledge of library and information science
matters, prescripts, legislation, procedures and processes and library services.
Batho Pele principles, communication skills, computer Literacy (Microsoft
Office), customer services skills, interpersonal relations skills and planning
skills.
DUTIES : Render library and information services to the Judiciary, internal and external
clients, provide efficient and effective circulation desk services, receive and
verify the library publications, process and update library publications.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms RS Ledwaba Tel No: (013) 758 0000
HR Related Enquiries: Mr SJ Zwane/ MV Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/75/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 24/102 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: 2026/76/OCJ
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of the High Court: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade twelve (12) certificate. No
previous experience required. A valid driver’s license will serve as advantage.
All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part
of the. assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on
the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
Batho Pele principles, knowledge of working procedures in terms of the
working environment, effective communications skills (written and verbal),
good interpersonal skills, computer literacy skills, customer services, planning
and organising skills, problem solving skills, analytical skills, numeric skills,
flexible, motivational, able to work under pressure, meticulous and self-driven.
DUTIES : Capture data from available records into the required formats e.g. databases,
table, spreadsheet, verify missing data and errors observed during data entry,
review and validate all data from the records, submit data and make regular
backups of data, keep and maintain records and files, ensure records and files
are properly sorted and secured, provide information to components, keep and
maintain record files, send and receive emails when requested, report all IT
problems immediately to supervisor, provide information to responsible
components, check all machines and microphones and fault diagnosing of the
CRT machines, report faults experienced during fault diagnosing process and
log queries to helpdesk, capture Court roll from Court list/books and pre-
schedule the cases prior to commencement of the proceedings, record Court
proceedings as per Court appearance and related annotations for the case
type in session, search for postponed cases and add later recording sessions
to such locations, transfer Court recordings to the site server in 15min intervals,
save and scan documents as requested, ensure that all cases records/Court
documents for data capturing are kept safe while in your possession, sort and
distribute incoming data to be captured equally, review and validate all data
from the files, open files and file and update registers and statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr PA Nkone Tel No: (012) 492 7606
HR Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/76/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
86
ANNEXURE O
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION
It is the intention to promote representivity in the Department through the filling of these posts. The
candidature of applicants from designated groups especially in respect of people with disabilities will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or E-mail your application to and Advert072026@dpsa.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 27 July 2026
NOTE : Applications are hereby invited from independent, suitably qualified and
experienced professionals to serve as members of the Shared Audit and Risk
Committee of the Department of Public Service and Administration (DPSA) and
Centre for Public Service Innovation (CPSI). Applications must quote the
relevant reference number and consist of: A fully completed and signed NEW
Z83 form which can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp .’’From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it
will not be considered”, a recent comprehensive CV; contactable referees
(telephone numbers and email addresses must be indicated); Applicants are
not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents
on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents, all non-
SA citizens must attach a copy of proof of permanent residence in South Africa
on or before the day of the interviews). Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). All non-SA citizens must attach a copy of proof of permanent
residence in South Africa. All shortlisted candidates for post/s will be subjected
to a technical exercise that intend to test relevant technical elements of the job,
personnel suitability checks on criminal records, citizen verification, financial
records, qualification verification and applicants could be required to provide
consent for access to their social media accounts. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POST
POST 24/103 : AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON REF NO: DPSA 07/2026
(Three-year contract)
Re-advertisement, candidates who applied previously must re-apply.
SALARY : Audit and Risk Committee Members shall be appointed as independent
contractors and not as employees of the Department. Remuneration shall be
in accordance with National Treasury Regulations 3.1.6, read with National
Treasury Regulations 20.2.3. Member will be remunerated for preparation and
attendance of meetings.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year tertiary or equivalent qualification in Accounting, Auditing and Risk
Management or Law. Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) or Chartered Accountant
(CA) or equivalent professional qualification in relevant fields is a prerequisite
for the appointment as the Shared Audit & Risk Committee Chairperson of the
Department of Public Service & Administration and Centre for Public Service
Innovation (CPSI). Candidates should have executive management
experience in risk management, control, governance, within the public service
and or Government sector for more than ten years. Knowledge and
understanding of Government prescripts and processes. Experience:
Applicants must have demonstrable exposure in Risk Management,
Governance, Audit, Financial Management, Law, and Organizational
Performance Management. The applicants should be independent and
knowledgeable of the status of their positions as chairperson of the Audit &
Risk Committee. A knowledgeable person who keeps up to date with the
developments within the Finance, Auditing, Risk Management, Legal and
governance space. Departmental Values. Technical Knowledge of the
87
Department of Public Service and Administration, National Treasury,
prescripts, regulations, and guidelines. Lead issues to direct the Committee's
focus on properly addressing critical and high-risk areas. Attributes And Skills:
Strong leadership, analytical thinking, good communication skills, ability to
inspire confidence and maintain a balanced view, ability to maintain
independence and objectivity, facilitation skills, Courage to challenge
discussions and ask relevant questions, willing to dedicate time and energy to
serve the interest of the public, encourage openness and transparency, healthy
skepticism and professional approach, High level of integrity, inquisitiveness
and independent judgement, knowledge of the public sector risk and control,
ability to offer new perspective, ability to promote effective working
relationships (among committee members, management, internal and external
auditors).
DUTIES : Fulfil oversight responsibilities regarding risk management, control,
governance, information technology, compliance, external and internal audit,
management accounts, and annual financial statements. Advise the
Accounting Officer in the effective execution of his/her responsibilities. Assist
in building trust and confidence in how the Department is managed. Regulate
and discharge all responsibilities as contained in relevant legislation and or the
Audit & Risk Committee Charter. Direct and lead the Committee and account
to the Accounting Officer and relevant Executive Authority. Serve as the
Chairperson for both DPSA and CPSI Audit and Risk Committee (shared).
General Information: Preference will be given to applicants who are citizens of
the Republic of South Africa.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Ernst Mogwanye Tel No: (012) 309 1074/ E-mail:
ernst.mogwanye@dpsa.gov.za
88
ANNEXURE P
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Head Office (Pretoria) Applications: The Director-General, Department of
Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X65, Pretoria, 0001 or CGO
Building, Corner Bosman and Madiba Street, Pretoria. For Attention: Ms NP
Mudau.
Cape Town Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X9027, Cape Town, 8000. Or Hand Deliver at
Ground floor, Customs House, Lower Heerengracht Street, Cape Town. For
Attention: Ms. C Rossouw
Nelspruit Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag X11280, Nelspruit, 1200.
Physical Address: 30 Brown Street, Nedbank Building, 9th floor, Nelspruit. For
Attention: Mr EK Nguyuza.
Bloemfontein Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager:
Department of Public Works, P/Bag X 20605, Bloemfontein 9300 or Hand
delivered 18 President Brand Street, Bloemfontein 9300 For Attention: Mr T
Mosia or Mr. T Mofokeng
Pretoria Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager: Department of
Public Works and Infrastructure, Private Bag x 229, Pretoria, 0001 or hand
deliver to AVN Building corner Thabo Sehume and Nana Sita Street, Pretoria.
For Attention: Ms M Masubelele
Durban Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager: Department of
Public Works, Private Bag X54315, Durban, 4000. Hand Deliver at Corner Dr
Pixley Kasem and Samora Machel Streets Durban. For Attention: Ms NS
Nxumalo
Mmabatho Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X120, Mmabatho 2735 or Hand Deliver at 810
Corner Albert Luthuli Drive and Maisantwa Streets, Unit 3, Mmabatho, 2735.
For Attention: Mr T. Oagile
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026, time: 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
89
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. NOTE: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https: www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /sms-pre-entry
programme/.All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. NOTE: For
emailed applications, please submit A Single PDF document or One
Attachment per application to the email address designated on the specific
position. Kindly Note That The Emailed Applications And Attachments Should
Not Exceed 15MB. It remains the candidate’s responsibility to ensure that their
application is successfully submitted using the required single pdf document.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/104 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EPWP NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE AND BUILDING
MAINTENANCE REF NO: 2026/256
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management Service)
CENTRE : Mmabatho Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6/National Diploma)/
or equivalent qualification in any of the Social Sciences, Built Environment
disciplines (Civil Engineering or Construction related); Training and Skills
Development. Relevant years of working experience at a Junior Management
/Assistant Director equivalent level in Programme and project management. A
valid driver’s license Knowledge of the Expanded Public Works Programme,
National Youth Service (NYS) programme, Construction Industry, Labour-
intensive methods of construction. Experience in implementation of Youth
Development Programmes. Knowledge of the structure and function of
government. Knowledge of Skills and Training processes. Knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and related regulations. Good
communication, training, development, business, analytical skills and writing
skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Management and implementation of the National Youth Service (NYS)
programme at the Mmabatho Regional Office. Liaison with Project Managers
to ensure that EPWP requirements have been included in contract document
to contribute towards training of NYS participants and employment of general
labour. Prepare specifications for inclusion in the bills of quantities and conduct
recruitment. Report work opportunities and National Youth Service participants
recruited. Liaison with all relevant stakeholders to ensure their buy-in and
participation in the National Youth Service. Ensure reporting of EPWP NYS
participants and EPWP general labour from projects implemented at the
Mmabatho Regional Office. Compile progress reports on the different
programmes being managed. Management of the budget of the component
including compilation of budget reports. Manage the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Xoliswa Letsapa Tel No: (018) 386 5390
APPLICATIONS : For Mmabatho: Email to: RecruitMBT26-20@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/105 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2026/257
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management Service)
90
CENTRE : Nelspruit Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6/National Diploma)
in Property Management or Facilities Management. Appropriate years of
experience in Properties Management or Facilities Management at Junior
Management level/Assistant Director Equivalent. Valid driver’s license
Knowledge and understanding of the maintenance of buildings, the
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Building regulations and Environment
Conservation Act. Good financial and budgeting skills. Knowledge of
Government Procurement System. Project management and leadership skills.
Ability to work well under pressure. Computer literacy. Sound analytical with
Good communication skills verbal and written.
DUTIES : The effective facilities management of Electrical, Mechanical and Building. The
implementation of procurement policies co-ordinate the preparation, analysis,
negotiation and review of contracts related to purchase equipment and
services. Ensure compliance with Occupational health and safety Act. Provide
guidance on the implementation of the policy. Monitor and evaluate impact and
effectiveness of the policies, provide continuous feedback on compliance with
policy. The management and recruitment of selection black emerging
enterprise-provide information on current requirements and suppliers to
express an interest: ensure compliance with procurement procedures and
legislation: assess new service provider profile and ensure that a proper
enterprise has been selected to carry out the assigned duties: utilise state
expenditure to promote emerging black enterprise. Manage unplanned
maintenance. Ensure the availability of sound functional, safe and habitable
structures and services. Prepare and control the budget of unplanned
maintenance. Provide and co-ordinate a preventative maintenance schedule.
Ensure quality control of workmanship and material by means of inspections
and corrective actions. Ensure that service contracts are in place. Ensure that
services provided are value for money. The effective supervision of resources
oversee the development and training of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Mathivha Tel No: (013) 753 6388
APPLICATIONS : For Nelspruit: Email to: RecruitNEL26-14@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/106 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ACQUISITIONS (SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT)
REF NO: 2026/258
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management Service)
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6/National Diploma)
in Supply Chain Management/ Finance/ Procurement/ Public Management/
Public Administration/ Internal Audit and Logistics. Extensive credible
experience at a Junior Management/ Assistant Director equivalent level, with
appropriate functional working experience in Supply Chain Management in
Acquisition Management or Contract Management and extensive experience
on management of resources. Valid driver’s licence at Legislative
Requirements: Practical knowledge and experience on implementation of
Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment, Public Service Act, Public
Finance Management Act, National Treasury Regulations, Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Skills. Good Knowledge of public sector
procurement experience, Knowledge of strategic planning and budgeting,
ability to develop, interpret and apply policies, CIDB strategies and legislation.
Understanding of Government budgeting processes, experience in working
with service providers/consultants. Knowledge of Public Service financial
legislative frameworks, Understanding of Financial management; Risk
Management; Knowledge and understanding of contract management. Key
Skills: Negotiation Skills and Technical Proficiency, Business Writing
Communication (verbal and written), Customer Focus and Responsiveness,
People and Performance Management, Diversity Management, Interpersonal,
Conflict management, Planning and Organising Problem solving and decision
making, Team Leadership; Computer literate (especially with regard to MS
Word, Excel, Projects and Power point), Basic Numeric skills and Excellent
Presentation Skills.
DUTIES : Develop and implement the acquisition Management systems and appropriate
acquisition Management internal controls and audit trails in the Department.
Facilitate and manage the business process cycle (inviting, evaluating,
adjudicating, and awarding) for all bids in terms of SCM regulations. Ensure
91
proactive management and tracking of tenders and quotations for goods and
services. Eligible knowledge of acquisition for REMS and Infrastructure
Projects. Provide regular progress report to management highlighting
procurement trends, problems, risks, deviation, delays and make appropriate
recommendations for improvements. Manage the Departmental Bid Evaluation
and Adjudication Committees secretariat. Compile and analyse management
reports from various strategic activities. Provide strategic report, advice and
guidance to all responsibility managers to ensure compliance with Supply
Chain Management regulations. Management of human resource related
issues including the implementation and facilitation of adherence to policies
and process in Acquisition Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Gqibela Tel No: (021) 402 2315
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: Email to: RecruitCPT26-64@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/107 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: COMPUTER AUDITS REF NO: 2026/259
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management Service)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF in level 6/National Diploma)
in Auditing/Accounting/Computer Science. Certified Information Systems
Audits (CISA). Practicing Information Systems Auditor with Relevant working
years of experience at Junior Management/Assistant Director level.
Professional Registration with the Institute for Internal Auditors (IIA) or
Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA). Driver’s License.
Proficiency in understanding and implementation of Government and other IT
Governance Frameworks. Proficiency in the use of any programming language
to conduct data analytics. Proficient Computer Literacy. Good communication
and supervisory skills. Good project management skills. Effective report writing
skills. Ability to follow a proactive and creative problem-solving approach.
Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines. Prepared to be subjected
to security clearance.
DUTIES : Assist the Director during the strategic planning process and with the planning
of computer audit activities. Develop computer audit objectives that address
the risks controls and governance processes associated with the activities
under review; Review the Develop computer audit procedures that achieve the
engagement objectives; set both the scope and degree of testing required to
achieve the assignment objectives in each phase; submit audit program for
approval to the Director prior to the commencement of audit assignments; Plan
and monitor computer audit projects within set timeframes, and individuals
responsible for the assignment to ensure that objectives are achieved, quality
is assured and staff is developed; Ensure that conclusions and audit results
are based on appropriate analysis and evaluation; Provide technical and
administration support to the compliance performance, financial and
operational audits. Attend exit conference on completion of Audit assignment
and present audit results. Implement a Quality Assurance and Improvement
program to ensure compliance to the IIA Standards and Unit Policies and
Procedures. Expected to conduct regular audits on key financial controls;
compliance audits; predetermined objectives, performance audits and IT
Audits as identified.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Luphumezo Gayiya Tel No: (012) 406 1402
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-55@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/108 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INVESTIGATIONS: GOVERNANCE, RISK AND
COMPLIANCE REF NO: 2026/260
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (Total package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Middle Management Service)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6/National
Diploma)/Degree in Auditing, Financial Management, Law or Criminology.
Possession of Certificate in Forensic and Investigative Auditing will be an
added advantage. Relevant years of working experience in fraud investigations
at a Junior Management/Assistant Director equivalent level. A valid driver’s
licence. Good interpersonal, organisational and communication skills are also
required. Good report writing and presentation skills. Analytical and innovative
thinking abilities. Computer literacy in MS Office Software.
92
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for the following duties in the
office of the Director-Fraud Awareness and Investigations: To plan and
implement special forensic operations and projects, gather comprehensive and
complete evidence of alleged serious mismanagement of resources or
unprofessional conduct, ensure the referral of alleged serious mismanagement
of resources or unprofessional conduct to the relevant authorities, supervise,
maintain and co-ordinate the forensic investigators attached to the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M. Mabotja Tel No: (012) 406 1328
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-56@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/109 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY:
STATUTORY COMPLIANCE-OHSA (BUILDING) REF NO: 2026/261
Re-advertisement for PSVC 03 of 2026-applicants who previously applied are
encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Nelspruit Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 06/ National Diploma)
in a build environment (Civil Engineering /Construction Management/ Project
Management). Relevant years of experience in a build environment field
including supervisory level. (Safety Management qualification/Certificate will
serve as an added advantage). Extensive knowledge of the build environment,
civil services associated with infrastructure and drawing designs. Application
and understanding of the Occupational Health & Safety Act, 85 of 1993 and
other relevant acts and regulations. Understanding of the National Building
Standards (SANS10400) and its prescripts including Municipality by laws.
Basic knowledge of the Departmental Policies and Procedures, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Good verbal and written communication skills.
Computer literacy. Good interpersonal relations. Problem solving skills,
listening and observation, Negotiations, conflict management and leadership
skills. Incident investigation, report writing and presentation skills. Valid driver’s
license. Prepared to travel and willing to adapt to working schedule in
accordance with the office requirements.
DUTIES : Ensure and facilitate the implementation of the Occupational Health and Safety
Act and regulations within the Region. Effectively manage general
administration and safety regulations. Conduct proactive and reactive
inspection in a state and leased facilities including construction projects.
Approve and ensure each contractor H & Safety plan is maintained on the
construction site. Facilitate the issuance of the occupancy certificate as per the
local authority/municipality. Monitor compliance on access facilities for people
with disability. Provide support when the emergency arise and prepare incident
report. Conduct incidents investigation and generate the report with
recommendation. Facilitate the appointment of health & safety representative,
First Aiders and Fire Marshals. Facilitate the training sessions for health safety
committee members including the information sessions. Compile and conduct
the presentations and facilitate the activation of the emergency evacuation
procedures in accordance with the building regulation & Municipality by-laws.
Provide technical advice to client’s departments and attend internal and
external meetings on OHS matters. Consolidate the monthly/quarterly and
annual reports for the OHS directorate in the regions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Mathivha Tel No: (013) 753 6303
APPLICATIONS : For Nelspruit: Email to: RecruitNEL26-15@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/110 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY:
STATUTORY COMPLIANCE-OHSA (MECHANICAL) REF NO: 2026/262
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Nelspruit Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 06/National Diploma)
in a build environment (Mechanical). Relevant years of experience in a build
environment field including supervisory level. (Safety Management
qualification/Certificate will serve as an added advantage). Extensive
knowledge of the build environment. Valid driver’s license. Application and
understanding of the Occupational Health & Safety Act, 85 of 1993 and other
relevant acts and regulations. Understanding of the National Building
Standards (SANS10400) and its prescripts including Municipality by laws.
Understanding of the procedures with regard to the safe operation of the Lifts,
93
Boilers, Incinerators, stand-by generators and water treatment plant
equipment. Basic knowledge of the Departmental Policies and Procedures,
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Good verbal and written
communication skills Computer literacy. Good interpersonal relations. Problem
solving skills, listening and observation, Negotiations, conflict management
and leadership skills. Incident investigation, report writing and presentation
skills. Prepared to travel and willing to adapt to working schedule in accordance
with the office requirements.
DUTIES : Ensure and facilitate the implementation of the Occupational Health and Safety
Act and regulations within the Region. Effectively manage general
administration and safety regulations. Conduct proactive and reactive
inspection in a state and leased facilities including construction projects.
Approve and ensure each contractor H & Safety plan is maintained on the
construction site. Facilitate the issuance of the electrical certificate of
compliance Ensure lifts, boilers, Incinerators, stand-by generators including
water treatment plant equipment are safe without risk. Provide support when
the emergency arises and prepare incident report. Conduct incidents
investigation and generate the report with recommendation. Facilitate the
appointment of health & safety representative, First Aiders and Fire Marshals.
Facilitate the training sessions for health safety committee members including
the information sessions. Compile and conduct the presentations and
facilitation the activation of the emergency evacuation procedures in
accordance with the building regulation & Municipality by-laws. Provide
technical advice to client’s departments and attend internal and external
meetings on OHS matters*Consolidate the monthly/quarterly and annual
reports for the OHS directorate in the regions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Mathivha Tel No: (013) 753 6303
APPLICATIONS : For Nelspruit: Email to: RecruitNEL26-16@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/111 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES REF NO: 2026/263
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06/National Diploma)
specializing in accounting. Relevant years of experience in debt management
at State Accountant level (07) in a GRAP environment. (Supervisory skills and
articles will be an added advantage). Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act, National Treasury Regulations, ERP/BAS systems
(SAGEX3 an advantage) and other sound Financial Management prescripts.
Valid driver’s license. Willingness to travel. Skills: Strong administrative,
analytical and communication skills (both written and verbal), computer literacy
with advanced Excel skills and good interpersonal skills. Presentation and
report writing skills, organizing and planning, problem solving, diplomacy,
ability to work independently and under pressure to meet tight deadlines. Team
player with strong negotiation skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Assist effective management of accounts
receivables as well as implementation and maintenance of debt risk
management system. Co-ordinate the financial processes for the recovery of
funds owed to the department. Co-ordinate the compilation of invoices and
claims based on consolidated details and calculate monthly advance charges
for Client Departments. Ensure timeous payment of advances on
accommodation charges. Ensure that clients are billed timeously.
Compile/Manage the compilation of accounts receivable reports and GRAP
accounting of leases. Assist regional offices to reconcile the accounts and
ensure completeness and accuracy. Collate all sub-directorate financial
reports, including Regions. Assist in management of timeous resolution of audit
queries. Record and manage claims issued to National Government
Departments, for accuracy and recoverability. Communicate with client
departments regarding non-payment of services and advances. Monitor and
manage the consolidated payments reconciliation on SAGEX3 Financial
System. Report on revenue collected by the department, follow up on non-
payment of invoices and assist with the management of the Debt Management
team. Monitor the year end consolidation and submission of AFS inputs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Billy Leketi Tel No: (012) 406 1223
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-57@dpw.gov.za
94
POST 24/112 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROPERTY PAYMENTS (FINANCE) REF NO:
2026/264
Re-advertisement applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6/National Diploma)
in Economics, Finance Management, Accounting, Internal Auditing, Real
Estate and Business Management or equivalent. Valid driver’s license.
Knowledge of PFMA, Treasury Regulations and other transcripts. Relevant
years of experience at Supervisory level. Computer literacy. Knowledge of
financial and payment systems will be an added advantage. Relevant years of
experience in payment of municipal accounts, rates and taxes. Report writing
and good communication skills, verbal and written. Organising and problem-
solving abilities. Good financial, interpersonal, analytic and budgeting skills.
Ability to manage stakeholders’ i e municipalities, clients ‘departments,
landlords and private individuals. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Responsible to supervise the expenditure on properties through supervising
payments of rates and taxes, municipal services, lease rentals and other
property related payment in the region. Implement long-term strategies to
contain municipal services expenditure. Ensure a sound property expenditure
management system, including minimization of accounts payable to avoid
fruitless, wasteful, irregular and unauthorised expenditure. Assist in the
compilation of the sub-directorate’s budget. Ensure that an accurate asset
register is in place and maintained regularly for use in processing expenditure
for all state-owned properties. Ensure that all financial transactions for four
stages of the life cycle of the property are recorded and monitored on PMIS.
Responsible for implementing strategies to ensure good audit reports.
Supervise staff and manage their performance according to the Performance
Management System.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Dubase Tel No: (051) 408 7330
APPLICATIONS : For Bloemfontein: Email to: RecruitBLOEM26-23@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/113 : SENIOR INTERNAL AUDITOR REF NO: 2026/265
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6/National Diploma)
in Internal Auditing or Financial Accounting and relevant working experience in
Auditing. Registration with the institute of internal auditors. A valid driver`s
licence. Possession of an Internal Audit Technician (IAT) and or Professional
Internal Audit Technician (PIAT) qualification will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of Standards for Professional Practice of Internal Auditing,
Treasury Regulations, the Public Finance Management Act, Institute of Internal
Auditors Code of Ethics and Phases of internal audit processes. Skills:
Computer literacy, Numeracy, Advanced communication (Verbal and written).
Project management. Report writing. Organisation and co-ordination.
Dedication. Honesty. Objectivity. Diligence. Avoid conflict of interests in
performing duties. Exercise prudence with confidential information. Innovation.
Adaptability. Creative. Willingness to travel and work overtime.
DUTIES : Conduct audit programme steps. Conduct audit fieldwork and collect relevant,
sufficient and useful audit evidence. Assess and evaluate audit evidence.
Develop audit working papers. Develop audit findings. Undertake the
administrative functions of the Regional Internal Audit section. Co-ordinate the
administration of the office. Ensure adequate resources for the Office. Manage
office management systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Rikhotso Tel No: (012) 492 3064
APPLICATIONS : For Durban: Email to: RecruitDBN26-09@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/114 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES REF NO:
2026/266
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6/National Diploma)
or equivalent qualification in Accounting, Financial Management with relevant
95
years of experience in Accounting, coupled with extensive working experience
on PFMA, Treasury Regulations, guidelines and policies applicable in
government. Sound interpersonal and communication skills. Computer literacy.
Multi-tasking skills. Self-driven, result-orientated and motivated. The ability to
meet deadlines and accept responsibility. Extensive experience in BAS/SAGE,
WCS, PERSAL, LOGIS and PMIS.
DUTIES : Report to Assistant Director: Financial Accounting. The incumbent’s
responsibilities shall include, among others: Monitor and control the
adherence/compliance to sound accounting practices, prescribed policies and
regulations governing debtors and receipts. Ensure correct allocation of
revenue and journals. Compilation of inputs to Interim and Annual Financial
Statements. Ensure effective management of Cashier’s Office and prepare
administrative reports applicable. Ensure effective and economical
management of debtors and prepare various systems reconciliations. Ensure
proper responses to internal and external Audit Requests/ Queries/ Findings
and the implementation of audit recommendations. Ensure effective
management and supervision of subordinates in area of responsibility.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L. Mabuso Tel No: (012) 310 5929
APPLICATIONS : For Pretoria: Email to: RecruitPTA26-52@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/115 : CHIEF WORKS MANAGER: BUILDING: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT REF
NO: 2026/267
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6/National Diploma)
(T/N/S streams) in Building/Civil/Quantity Surveying; Facilities Management,
OR (N3 and a passed trade test in the building environment and three (03) to
five (05) years technical experience in Built environment field). A valid driver’s
license. Extensive knowledge of the Building Regulations, Occupational Health
and Safety Act, Public Finance Management Act, Environment Conservation
Act as well as Government Procurement System. Ability to plan, organize and
manage resources. Registration with a professional body in the build
environment would be an added advantage. Good verbal and written
communication skills, Computer literate. Good interpersonal skills. Good
budgeting and estimating skills. Willingness to travel and work irregular hours.
DUTIES : Manage day-to-day building maintenance project activities to facilitate effective
project execution in terms of costs, quality and time existing State
accommodation. Manage project costs, estimates and monitor and control the
processes of controlling changes in line with allocated day-to-day maintenance
budget. Conduct site inspections to ensure compliance to specifications sort
out by the department. Assist in site handovers; first and final deliveries. Ensure
compliance with OHSA and National Building Regulations. Assist in the
development of building programs and conditional surveys and reporting
regularly to management on the progress thereof. Ensure all work executed
complies with PW371 standard and specification, Budget management, render
a co-ordinated and professional service at all levels regarding the maintenance
and management of DPWI clients.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Gwanya Tel No: (051) 408 7425
APPLICATIONS : For Bloemfontein: Email to: RecruitBLOEM26-24@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/116 : INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY TECHNICIAN REF NO: 2026/268
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6/National Diploma)
in Information Technology / Information System, Computer Systems
Engineering, Computer Sciences or relevant qualification. A+ and N+
certificates with a relevant years of working experience in desktop support in a
network environment. Computing, good communication, interpersonal and
report writing skills. Professional, self-driven, independent individual with
troubleshooting and problem-solving skills. Good understanding of MS
Windows 10 -11, Microsoft 365 applications and end-user cloud services.
Understanding of Unified Communications applications and support. A valid
driver’s licence. Skills: Excellent diagnostic and problem solving; Excellent
communication ability; Outstanding organizational and time-management;
Computer skills; Communication; Interpersonal. Personal Attributes: Friendly
96
and personable demeanour; Take ownership and responsibility; Possess the
drive to learn and adaptable to change/new technologies; Punctual; Ability to
work under pressure; Ability to communicate effectively with others both
verbally and in writing. Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office
requirements.
DUTIES : Provide advanced desktop support and maintenance across Microsoft
applications, business application access, and unified communications
solutions. Detect, troubleshoot, and repair faults on LAN/WAN infrastructure,
PCs, peripherals, network points, and software. Assist with the planning,
design, and implementation of LAN/WAN infrastructure as well as desktop,
laptop, and printing solutions. Provide and maintain printing services for
transversal systems such as LOGIS, PERSAL, BAS, WCS, and PMIS. Manage
and maintain a secure, stable, and virus free network environment. Deliver
enduser support for data backups and restoration. Monitor local area networks
to ensure optimal performance. Liaise wi-th suppliers and manufacturers to
reso-lve enduser incidents. Install, configure, and support software and
applications as required. Plan and organise the deployment of computer
programs, a-pplications and networks (Laptops, Printers, Network cabling,
Audio-visual, Wi-Fi Access, Business applications etc.). Identify user
requirements for acquisition and maintenance of equipment and computer
programs. Include user and office infrastructure or systems requirements on
annual Acquisition Plans. Receive and support service providers and technical
engineers for specialised network or applications installations. Prepare and
participate on migration of user profiles on newly deployed systems or
applications. Install and maintain computer systems and networks to achieve
the highest functionality and optimise the role of technology. Set up
workstations with computers and necessary peripheral devices (routers,
printers etc.). Check computer hardware to ensure functionality. replacing parts
as required. Install and configure computer hardware, operating systems and
applications. Identify aging hardware and software and report on the findings.
Provide technical support to end-users on IT related incidents and service
requests. Monitor Help Desk tickets and resolve user issues. Perform
troubleshooting to diagnose and resolve problems (repair or replace parts,
debugging etc.). Create temporary user accounts and reset passwords
ensuring that the correct permissions and data security are applied. Perform
remote troubleshooting through diagnostic techniques and pertinent questions.
Provide a reliable and stable network environment. Install and configure LAN
and WAN devices. Install and configure Wi-Fi Access points. Install and
Configure Wi-Fi Client on users PC’s. Deploy and upgrade network servers.
Monitor LAN and WAN performance and troubleshoot issues. Monitor IT
inventory. Perform periodic preventative maintenance and updates. Maintain
service records. Maintain records/logs of repairs and fixes and maintenance
schedule. Analyse history of software or hardware issues and make
recommendations to prevent future problems. Analyse service requests to
identify common trends and underlying problems. Identify and suggest
possible improvements on procedures. Ensure full compliance with the data
protection act.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D Gqibela Tel No: (021) 402 2315
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: Email to: RecruitCPT26-65@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/117 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: MR4 REF NO: 2026/273
SALARY : R403 929 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD determination)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of degree (LLB) with at least 5 years’ appropriate post qualification
legal experience or (05 years’ experience as an in-house legal advisor or
legal/contract administrator). Willingness to travel on an ad hoc basis and
adapt to a work schedule in accordance with professional requirements, A valid
driver’s licence. Admission as attorney or Advocate of the high court and
supervisory/management experience will be an added advantage. Knowledge:
Specialized knowledge of law of contracts, general administration of contracts
and litigation within an organizational context, Legal research and professional
legal assistance, In-depth knowledge of the Framework for Supply Chain
Management [Regulations in terms of the Public Finance Management Act,
1999 (Act No. 1 of 1999) (PFMA)], Code of Conduct for Supply Chain
Management Practitioners, the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, the Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act, 2000 (Act No. 5 of 2000), the State
97
Information Technology Agency Act, 1998 (Act No. 88 of 1998), the Public
Service Act, 1994 (Act No. 103 of 1994), Public Service Regulations and other
relevant legislation. SKILLS: Thorough and proven legal drafting,
communication and presentation skills, Sound analytical and problem
identification and solving, Language proficiency, Maintenance of confidentiality
of information, Computer literacy, Relationship management, Decision-making
skills, Interpersonal and diplomacy, Motivational, Negotiation, Mediation and
Arbitration skills.
DUTIES : Management of the provision of general legal advisory support services to the
department and Ministry. Management of all litigious matters for and against
the Department and Ministry. Management of the legal advisory services on
the drafting, vetting and amendment of contracts. Oversee the exploration of
efficiency measures introduced. Provide general legal opinions to line function.
Liaise with the office of the state attorney and consult, provide instructions,
facilitate the compilation of documents in litigation cases. Consult with line
function and take instructions. Management of litigation and debt files. Attend
to PAIA and PAJA requests from line function.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Shalini Roopram Tel No: (012) 406 1028
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-58@dpw.gov.za
NOTE : People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 24/118 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION
REF NO: 2026/270
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6/National Diploma)
in Human Resources Management or Public Administration. Appropriate
experience in Human Resources Management with emphasis on Human
Resource Administration. A valid driver’s license (Condition of Services and
Pensions). Knowledge of standards, practices, processes and procedures.
Good Knowledge of PERSAL, CORE, Ability to apply and interpret Legislative
frameworks such as PSA, PSR, EEA and other regulatory prescripts for the
public sector. Data analysis techniques, ability to undertake basic research and
gather information, Computer utilization, good communication and report
writing abilities, analytical skills, interpersonal relations, diplomacy, negotiation
skills, conflict management, and the ability to perform under pressure.
DUTIES : Administration of condition of services and benefits. Providing an advisory
function to DPWI staff on Human Resources policies. Processing of
appointments and service terminations. Administration of pension benefits.
Assist in the policy reviews related to condition of services. Ensure that relevant
stakeholders are involved on policy making processes. Assist in sourcing
information needed to report on Audit findings. Compile monthly reports to HR
Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs NS Nxumalo Tel No: (031) 314 7023
APPLICATIONS : For Durban: Email to: RecruitDBN26-10@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/119 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: IMMOVABLE ASSET REGISTER REF NO:
2026/271
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF 6/National Diploma) in
Commerce, Real Estate Management, Project Management, Business
Administration/management, Asset Management. Appropriate relevant
experience in Property / Immovable Asset Register Management. Experience
in State Land administration and verification of immovable asset (land and
buildings) or related. A valid driver’s license. Effective communication skills.
Good report writing skills. Computer literacy. Negotiation skills. Decision
making skills. Excellent Interpersonal skills. Ability to work under pressure, high
level of reliability and deadline driven.
DUTIES : Carry out the physical verification of immovable assets. Conduct and
administer physical verification of immovable assets in line with IAR verification
support tools. Identify and record improvements to state property in IAR.
Correctly capture disposals in the IAR. Participate in vesting of land parcels
and endorsement of Title Deeds provide admin support for Immovable Asset
98
Register projects. Ensure the safekeeping of all project documentation. Provide
administrative support services to immovable asset Register Sub-Unit
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Segone Tel No: (051) 408 7341
APPLICATIONS : For Bloemfontein: Email to: RecruitBLOEM26-25@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/120 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: REGISTRY REF NO: 2026/272
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of tertiary qualification (NQF level 6/National Diploma) in Public
Administration/ Public Management or Business Management. A candidate
must have knowledge and experience of working in financial systems
(Reapatala, Archibus) and relevant years of working experience in Record
Management environmental and a valid driver’s license. Knowledge of
Pertinent Policies: Electronic document and Records Management Systems
(EDRMS), National Archives and Records Service of South Africa Act
(NARSA), PFMA; National Treasury Regulations, Knowledge of Minimum
Information Security Standards (MISS) Act; Public Finance Management Act;
Mailing procedures; Procurement processes and procedures; Inventory
systems; Records Management: Human Resources policies. Competencies:
Effective communication; Report writing; Basic numeracy; Computer literacy;
Analytical thinking; Interpersonal relations; Client liaison; General office
administrative and organizational skills, Knowledge and ability to distinguish
the procurement files (Tenders and Quotations documents). Personal
Attributes: Ability to work under pressure; People oriented; Hard working;
Assertive; Ability to communicate at all levels.
DUTIES : Provide supervisory and administration support for registry counter services.
Ensure all invoices received are captured on Reapatala system. Ensure the
proper handling of incoming and outgoing correspondences. Attend to clients’
queries. Provide weekly/ monthly statics and report on the capturing of
invoices. Distribute notices on registry issues. Facilitates request for bulk
photocopying as required. Administer an effective filing system according to
record classification. Continuously monitor and assess the records
management system to ensure compliance with applicable guidelines and
prescripts. Ensure payment of Post Office private bag account. Facilitates and
supervise registration and dispatching of mail, and ensure confidential mail is
delivered unopened. Ensure that unclaimed of undeliverable letters are
returned to the post office. Provide general administration, supervisory
functions and performance evaluation of staff. Allocate duties and perform
quality controls. Provide leadership to subordinates with regard to all aspects
of work. Facilitate training and development of subordinates. Perform any other
duties as per the requirements of the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Bambela Tel No: (021) 402 2193
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: Email to: RecruitCPT26-66@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/121 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: REGIONAL MANAGER’S OFFICE REF NO:
2026/277
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6/National Diploma)
in Secretarial Diploma, Office Management, Management Office, Business
Administration, Public Administration / Public Management. Relevant years of
working experience. Knowledge: Wide range of office management and
administrative tasks; Good telephone etiquette; Demonstrative computer
literacy; relevant legislation; Basic financial administration. Skills: Advanced
communication (verbal and written); Sound organisational skill; Good people
skill; Language skills; Ability to communicate well with people at deferent levels;
Basic numeracy; Interpersonal skills; Office administration and organisational
skills; Planning and organising; Ability to research; Ability to act with tact and
discretion. Personal attributes: People orientated; High level of reliability; Hard
working; Resourceful; Self-motivated; Trustworthy; Multilingual; Creative.
Willing to adapt work schedule in accordance with office requirements.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Regional Manager.
Record the engagements of the Regional Manager. Utilises discretion to decide
whether to accept/decline or refer to other employees, request for meetings,
based on the assessed importance and urgency of the matter. Coordinate with
99
and sensitises/advises the manager regarding engagements. Compiles
realistic schedule of appointments. Renders administrative support services.
Ensure the effective flow of information and documents to and from the office
of the Regional Manager. Scrutinise routine submissions/ reports and make
notes and/or recommendations for the manager. Responds to enquiries
received from internal and external stakeholders. Collect, analyse and collate
information requested by the RM. Clarify instructions and notes on behalf of
the RM. Ensure that travel arrangements are well coordinated. Manage the
leave register and telephone accounts for the unit. Handle the procurement of
standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. for the activities for the RM
and the unit. Provide support to the Regional Manager regarding meetings.
Collect and compile all necessary documents for the RM to inform him/her on
the contents. Record minutes/decision and communicates to relevant role-
players, follow-up on progress made. Prepare briefing notes for the RM as
required. Coordinates logistical arrangement for meetings when required.
Supports the manager with the administration of the budget. Collects and
coordinates all the documents that relate to budget of the office of the RM.
Assist the RM in determining funding requirements for purposes of MTEF
submissions. Keep record of expenditure commitments, monitors expenditure
and alert the RM of possible over and under spending. Check and correlates
BAS reports to ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly. Identify the need
to move funds between items, consults with the RM. Compares the MTEF
allocation with the requested budget and informs the manager of changes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D Gqibela Tel No: (021) 402 2315
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: Email to: RecruitCPT26-67@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/122 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL REPORTING REF NO: 2026/274 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6/National Diploma)
in Financial Accounting or equivalent qualification with relevant years of
working experience in financial reporting. A valid driver’s licence and
willingness to travel for official purposes. Knowledge: Public sector experience
with applied knowledge of the PFMA, Treasury Regulations and GRAP/IFRS.
SAGE X3 Financial System experience will be an added advantage. Skills:
sound analytical, problem identification and solving skills, communication skills
(written and verbal), report writing and presentation skills, analytical thinking
and time management skills. Ability to work independently and in a team,
computer literacy with Excel skills. Ability to meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Liaising with line function and other finance officials in order to obtain accurate
and reliable inputs for financial reporting purposes within deadlines (focusing
on assets, accruals, provisions, other liabilities and leases). Assist in preparing
and consolidating workings, preparing disclosure notes and supporting
workings for journals relating to financial reporting. Processing of journals on
financial system. Ensure that workings are compliant with GRAP standards.
Perform and manage administrative related functions as required by the unit.
Support the Assistant Director in financial reporting tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Leonard Chiloane Tel No: (012) 406 1810
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-59@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/123 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES REF NO: 2026/275 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 6/National Diploma)/
Bachelor’s Degree specializing in Accounting. Job related knowledge:
Knowledge of Standard of Generally Recognized Accounting Practice, Public
Financial Management Act, Treasury Regulations and other sound Financial
Management prescripts. Job related skills: Good interpersonal relations, Time
management skills, Computer literacy in Microsoft excel and word, Good
written and verbal communication skills, Organizing and office administration
skills, good data analysis and report interpretation skills. Ability to work under
pressure and deliver to tight deadlines. Ability to develop solutions to a variety
of problems and interpretation in line with guidelines and departmental policies.
100
(The Knowledge of ERP systems and Supervisory skills will be an added
advantage).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will: Capture and process fully supported
invoices/invoices and receipts on SAGE. Compile accurate claims/invoices
and issued to the client departments. Ensure that claims are issued timeously
to the client departments and entities. Recover outstanding money from clients.
Perform reconciliation of the client accounts and clear exceptions. Checking
and controlling age analysis and clear suspense accounts. Render support to
the management of the unit. Respond to all audit information requests in the
directorate and gather information to resolve the audit queries. Liaise with
Regions to resolve internal queries and queries from Debtors. Safeguard the
Unit’s transaction documents. Submit AR related inputs for Annual and Interim
Financial Statements consolidation. Prepare accurate adjustment and year
end journals correctly classified in line with GRAP.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Beauty Chiloane Tel No: (012) 406 1257
APPLICATIONS : For Head Office: Email to: Recruitment26-60@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/124 : DRIVER: CLEANING SERVICES REF NO: 2026/276
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 10 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised
by SAQA. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Minimum Information Security
Standard (MISS) Act; basic literacy; basic numeracy. The National Road Traffic
Act Regulations. Skills: Effective communication (verbal or written);
interpersonal relations; planning of work processes; time management; driving
skills. Personal Attributes: Hard working, trustworthy; punctuality, accuracy;
polite; helpful. Honesty flexibility. (Professional Driving Permit (PDP) will be
used as an added advantage).
DUTIES : Transport Work Teams, Materials and Equipment: Transport work teams,
material and equipment to various Magistrate Courts. Complete vehicle
logbooks and trip authorization documentation. Pick up and drop off employees
as assigned. Verify materials loaded onto the vehicle before departure. Assist
with loading and unloading of materials and equipment. Ensure vehicles are
not overloaded. Follow delivery schedules to ensure timely transportation.
Perform Driver-Related Services. Transport departmental officials, clients and
visitors as required. Maintain professional conduct and interaction with all
stakeholders. Receive documents and items for transportation and ensure their
safe delivery. Complete transport schedules and maintain accurate trip
records. Maintain and Care for Assigned Vehicles Conduct daily vehicle
inspection at the beginning of each shift. Ensure vehicles are clean, safe and
properly maintained. Report vehicle defects, repair requirements, accidents,
injuries and damage promptly. Operate vehicles in accordance with road traffic
regulations and departmental policies. Maintain accurate records of vehicle
usage and movement.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Nkonyana Tel No: (051) 408 7353
APPLICATIONS : For Bloemfontein: Email to: RecruitBLOEM26-26@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/125 : DRIVER/MESSENGER: PROVISIONING AND LOGISTICS REF NO:
2026/277
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Minimum of Grade 10 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised
by SAQA. A valid driver’s license as well as a Professional Driving Permit
(PDP). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of the procedures to
operate the motor vehicle. Knowledge of prescripts for the correct utilization of
motor vehicles. Knowledge of the procedures to ensure that the motor vehicle
is maintained properly. Knowledge of the procedures to perform messenger
functions and routine office support functions like registry services and making
of photocopies. Knowledge of the city district in which the functions will be
performed.
DUTIES : Perform general messenger and delivery services. Sort and arrange
correspondences in the registry. Collect submissions and other documents
from the assigned office. Render a driver service including driving light and
medium motor vehicles to transport passengers, performing routine
maintenance on the allocated vehicle. Sort mail, files, documents and parcels.
101
Render delivery services. Ensure that items to collect are sealed and
addressed. Deliver mail, files, documents and parcels to addressees. Ensure
that the recipients sign on the delivery book/register. Record contents and
physical addresses in the delivery book/register. Perform general office
assistant tasks. Make copies, fax and shred documents. Render auxiliary
administrative support as required. Support the security profile of the office.
Support registry related activities. Support operator related activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Moko Tel No: (021) 402 2296
APPLICATIONS : For Cape Town: Email to: RecruitCPT26-68@dpw.gov.za
POST 24/126 : GROUNDMAN REF NO: 2026/278
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office (Kestell Magistrate Court)
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of ABET level 04/Grade 09. No experience required. A minimum of
Grade 10. Good interpersonal skills. Knowledge: Knowledge of Garden
maintenance practices Operating horticultural equipment Occupational health
and safety Skills. Operation of machinery, Interpersonal skills, Basic literacy,
technical skills, Planning and organising, Accuracy, Effective communication.
DUTIES : Mowing of lawn areas, both developed and veld grass areas. Watering of plants
and avoiding plants dying of malpractice. Keep flower and shrub beds weed
free cultivated and well maintained; Pruning dead flower heads of plants in bed,
fertilizing lawn and plant beds; Planting of new mother stock material in the
area; Assisting in plant propagation area; Sweep and rake hard surfaces in
responsibility area; Upholding good conduct at all times; Cleaning of restrooms
allocated to DPW as per schedule.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Nketsha Tel No: (051) 408 7345
APPLICATIONS : For Bloemfontein: Email to: RecruitBLOEM26-27@dpw.gov.za
102
ANNEXURE Q
DEPARTMENT OF TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
positions with a candidate whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in the department’s Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the NEW Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service department and
signed when submitted. From 1 January 2021 should an application be
received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), the application
will not be considered. Only shortlisted candidates will submit relevant
documents. Applicants should submit CV and Z83 only. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies a day before the interview date. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Persons with a disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA)
and to provide proof of such evaluation only when shortlisted. Incomplete
applications or applications received after the closing date will not be
considered. It is important to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to
ensure that all information and attachments in support of the application are
submitted by the due date. Due to the large number of responses anticipated,
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The department
reserves the right not to fill the advertised position.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/127 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: 2026/12
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion that
may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A three year Bachelor’s degree in Accounting or Financial Management or
equivalent qualification at NQF level 7 plus 5 years’ experience at junior
management/Assistant Director level with relevant experience in the financial
field. A valid driver’s licence. Core competencies: Strategic Capacity and
leadership, Financial Management, Programme and Project Management;
change management. Process Competencies: Knowledge management,
Service delivery innovation, Problem solving and analysis, People
management and empowerment, Client orientation and customer focus,
computer literacy and communication, Communication (Verbal and written).
Technical competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, General Accepted
Accounting Practices (GAAP), Basic Accounting System (BAS), PERSAL
system, General ledger reconciliation and analysis, compilation of financial
statements, revenue management and debtors control and creditors
payments.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Manage the
financial planning, budgeting and reporting processes of the Department:
Ensure submission of credible budget inputs to National Treasury in respect of
MTEF, AENE, ENE, Cash Flow and Application Roll-overs; Manage Cash Flow
Projections/Monthly Drawings and ensure submission to National Treasury;
Participate in the Functional Group/Cluster meetings arranged by National
Treasury; Convene Departmental Budget Committee meetings; Manage,
update and maintain department’s budget; Make costing and funding related
presentations to Budget Committee and departmental governance structures,
Department’s Oversight Committees and other agencies and organisations as
needed; Conduct research necessary to prepare forecasts of future
103
financial/business conditions using multiple scenarios, review trends impacting
the department; Perform cost-benefit analysis as required to assist making
management decisions; Ensure compliance, implementation and maintenance
of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Instruction Notes and other financial
prescripts. Coordinate the revision of policies, internal controls and improved
processes: Monitor the policy and legislative framework to ensure that
cognisance is taken to new developments; Develop and maintain policies and
processes in line with applicable prescripts and ensure alignment with
Department’s strategic objective; Review efficiency and effectiveness of
systems of internal controls within the Department in order to improve the
integrity of financial information; Monitor compliance with financial prescripts;
Evaluate strategies and processes in order to continually improve them.
Monitor and manage the expenditure account: Analyse monthly department
costing, funding and budgeting reports to maintain expenditure controls;
Consult with Programme Managers to ensure that budget adjustments are
made in accordance with policies and procedures; Monitor spending patterns
and implement measures to promote adherence to budgets; Prepare monthly
reports on over expenditure and under expenditure (in-year monitoring
management reports); Conduct cost-benefit analysis to compare operating
programmes; Monitor compliance, implementation and maintenance of PFMA,
Treasury Regulations and other financial prescripts. Implement measures for
improving audit outcomes and risk management: Assist in the development
and monitoring of the audit action plan; Report progress on the audit plan;
Review of audit files and Annual Financial Statements to ensure compliance
with GRAP; Manage request for Information (RFIs) and submission of audit
evidence to AGSA; Manage and resolve audit queries; Reduce exposure to
risk through corporate governance; Assess risks of the sub-directorate and
update the risk register; Provide oversight in the compliance to the PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, departmental policies and internal control procedures;
Control documentation and safeguard source documents; Management of
Basic Accounting System and month end closure and financial year end
processes. Manage the sub-directorate financial planning, budgeting and
reporting. The successful candidate will also support the National House of
Traditional & Khoi-San Leaders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Motlhabedi Tel No: (012) 065-3440
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be posted to: Human Resource Management, Department of
Traditional Affairs, Private Bag X22, Arcadia, 0083 or Hand deliver to: 509
Pretorius Street, Arcadia, 2nd Floor, Pencardia 1 Building or email to
DTARecruit202612@cogta.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Director: Human Resource Management
NOTE : Youth and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 24/128 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RISK MANAGER REF NO: 2026/13
Office of the Director-General: Chief Directorate
(12 months contract post)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion that
may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in Risk Management/Internal
Auditing plus 5 years relevant experience in a Risk Management/Internal
Auditing environment. A valid driver's license. Generic Competencies: Service
delivery innovation, Problem solving and analysis, People management and
empowerment, Client orientation and customer focus, computer literacy and
communication. Technical Competencies: Risk management and auditing
practices, The Public Financial Management Act, Corporate governance,
Development of policies and strategies.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Conduct a risk
assessment and a resultant risk profile of the Department; Develop and
implement policies, strategies and frameworks on risk management; Align the
risk management process to strategic objectives and business plans of the
Department; Identify and perform risk management capacity gaps and
facilitate/provide risk management training; Monitor and evaluate the status of
risk management and adherence to risk management processes within the
Department; Develop and implement a fraud prevention plan. Manage the
business continuity function of the Department.
104
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Monene Tel No: (012) 065 3420
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be posted to: Human Resource Management, Department of
Traditional Affairs, Private Bag X22, Arcadia, 0083 or Hand deliver to: 509
Pretorius Street, Arcadia, 2nd Floor, Pencardia 1 Building or email to
DTARecruit202613@cogta.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Director: Human Resource Management
NOTE : Youth and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 24/129 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: 2026/14
Institutional Support & Coordination
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion that may be
structured in terms of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree or equivalent qualification in Political Studies/Public
Administration or Development Studies or equivalent qualification at NQF level
7. Five years experience at junior management (Assistant Director level) with
relevant experience in traditional affairs, stakeholder management, policy
analysis A valid driver’s licence. Generic Competencies: Service delivery
innovation, Problem solving and analysis, People management and
empowerment, Client orientation and customer focus, computer literacy and
communication. Technical Competencies: Knowledge of traditional affairs
sector, government systems and processes, Monitoring and evaluation
techniques, Stakeholder management, Policy analysis and implementation,
Report writing and presentation skills.
DUTIES The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Develop, review and
implement institutional development strategies, guidelines, frameworks and
support mechanisms for the institution of Traditional and Khoi-San leadership.
Monitor implementation of institutional development interventions and support
programmes for Traditional and Khoi-San leadership structures. Facilitate
stakeholder engagements and partnerships in support of institutional
development programmes. Provide support and monitor functionality of
Traditional and Khoi-San structures. Manage human resources in sub-
directorate and provide support in management of financial resources. Support
Traditional Affairs projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Tshivhase-Kharibe Tel No: (012) 065 3487
APPLICATIONS : Applications may be posted to: Human Resource Management, Department of
Traditional Affairs, Private Bag X22, Arcadia, 0083 or Hand deliver to: 509
Pretorius Street, Arcadia, 2nd Floor, Pencardia 1 Building or email to
DTARecruit202614@cogta.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Director: Human Resource Management
NOTE : Youth and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
105
ANNEXURE R
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 27 July 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment and for all shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to technical exercise and interview.
Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS
candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive
capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. It
should be noted that the National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial
Intelligence (AI) in any of its recruitment and selection processes and will
disqualify an application if it picks up the use of AI when completing
assessments without acknowledging the source of information. Successful
completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government, available as an online course
on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/,
prior to finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. All
qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship checks will be conducted on all short-
listed candidates and, where applicable, additional checks will be conducted in
line with the new DPSA Directive effective 01 April 2024. Please note that by
responding to our advertisement/s, you consent to the collection, processing,
and storing of your Personal Information for internal HR processes in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), Act No. 4
of 2013. In the event that your application is unsuccessful, the Department will
retain your personal information only for audit purposes as required by policies,
only for a specific period, of which the submitted documents will then be
destroyed as legislated in the National Archives Act. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level
certificates) evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at
your own expense. Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required
to disclose particulars of all registrable financial interests and to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za. Kindly note that all
National Treasury adverts published/LIVE on the eRecruitment System have a
106
closing date listed and closing time of 12h00 (MIDDAY) on that closing date.
The system is designed to automatically remove the advert from public view at
exactly 12h00 (MIDDAY) of the said closing date for that post. There are no
other means to submit applications post the closing date and time, if you have
missed or delayed in submitting on time.
OTHER POST
POST 24/130 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUSINESS PROCESSES REF NO: S081/2026
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Re-Advertisement, Applicants who applied previously must re-apply
Purpose: To develop, review, evaluate, maintain and align business processes
and related policies and procedures.
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Business
Administration or Public Administration or Business Analysis or Information
Management or Computer Science. A certification in business process
mapping or re-engineering as an added advantage. A minimum 3 years’
experience obtained in a business process mapping and business analysis
environment. Knowledge and experience in modelling applications, e.g. Case
Wise, scenario testing techniques.
DUTIES : Develop Business Processes: Develop and maintain existing business
processes and procedures based on process studies, best practices and
analysis of information verified with relevant stakeholders. Review policies and
changes in the operational environment and suggest enhancements. Align the
“how-to” guides with current environments and maintain the e-learning sites.
Identify and harvest knowledge assets within Business Units and ensure
alignment of knowledge management processes. Administration and
Awareness: Assist with maintenance of process mapping and procedural
related work. Compile progress reports and action logs for execution. Assist
with projects that involve business process mapping work. Conduct interactive
engagements with stakeholders to align business processes and procedures,
and the implemented thereof. Prepare presentation and conduct workshops
and awareness sessions. Stakeholder Engagement: Conduct research into
best practices that are applicable to stakeholder requirements. Gather
information during workshops and advise during feedback sessions on gaps
and the remedial ways for implementation. Conduct training sessions on
business processes, procedures and related tools for relevant stakeholders.
Business Process Governance, Improvement and Compliance: Review and
improve business processes to enhance operational efficiency, consistency
and effectiveness. Monitor alignment of business processes with approved
policies, procedures, standards and governance requirements. Identify
process gaps, duplication and inefficiencies, and recommend corrective and
improvement actions. Support the standardisation, implementation and
continuous improvement of business processes and related controls. Compile
reports on process compliance, risks, improvement initiatives and
implementation progress.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
107
ANNEXURE S
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za Other related documentation such as copies of
qualifications, identity documents, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates for
SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following
the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates
will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities,
behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. A pre-entry
certificate obtained from the National School of government is required prior to
the appointment. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Candidates
will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and undergo security
clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must provide a police
clearance certificate from country of origin (only when shortlisted). The
Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling
of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
hear from us within three (3) months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications will not be
considered. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Targets.
ERRATUM: Kindly take note that the post of Environmental Officer:
Specialized Production with Ref No: 170726/02, which was advertised in Public
Service Vacancy Circular 23 dated 03 July 2026 with a closing date of 17 July
2026, has been withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/131 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST GRADE A REF NO: 240726/01
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Head Office
Cd: Infrastructure Development
Dir: Capital Projects
SALARY : R958 776 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor of Technology (BTech) in Civil Engineering as recognised by SAQA.
A minimum of six (6) years’ post-qualification experience as an Engineering
Technologist/Technician. Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional
Engineering Technologist. The disclosure of a valid Code EB unexpired driver’s
licence (except for persons with disabilities). Demonstrated experience in
providing technological advisory services, including the evaluation and quality
assurance of technical designs, drawings, and specifications, and making
recommendations for approval by the relevant authority. Experience in
planning and providing technological and/or technical support to engineers on
108
water related infrastructures. Proven practical experience in mentoring
graduate interns and facilitating training and development. Understanding of
ECSA professional mentorship requirements will be an added advantage.
Sound knowledge of contract administration and project management, with
proven ability to interpret and review technical drawings and designs.
Understanding of public sector procurement processes and financial planning
and management principles. Knowledge of applicable legislation, including the
National Water Act, Water Services Act, environmental legislation, and the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Familiarity with standard forms of
contract used in infrastructure projects. Strong communication, conflict
management, dispute resolution, and negotiation skills. Computer literacy,
including proficiency in MS Office programmes and MS Project. Experience
with design software such as AutoCAD Civil 3D will be an added advantage.
Willingness and ability to mentor and guide candidates towards professional
registration. registrations.
DUTIES : Provide and manage specialised technological advisory services, ensuring
adherence to and promotion of safety standards in line with statutory
requirements, while effectively managing administrative and related functions.
Mentor graduate interns and demonstrate willingness to be registered as a
mentor with ECSA. Supervise and manage technological personnel and
associated resources. Monitor and oversee the evaluation of engineering
designs and drawings to ensure compliance with required standards,
specifications, and best practice. Technical and financial reporting. Interfacing
with relevant Departmental Divisions. Apply established engineering
techniques and procedures to resolve broadly defined engineering challenges.
Contribute to the coordination, compilation, and structuring of tender
documentation in line with CIDB Best Practice Guidelines, including the
development of specifications for works. Support contract administration and
project management functions. Liaise with relevant bodies and councils on
engineering-related matters. Maintain effective stakeholder relationships and
support project implementation objectives. Participate in continuous
professional development to remain current with evolving technologies,
standards, and best practices in civil engineering infrastructure delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Bhasopo Tel No: (012) 336 8962
POST 24/132 : HR INFORMATION SYSTEM CONTROLLER REF NO: 240726/02
Branch: Corporate Support Services
Cd: Human Resource Management
Dir: Human Resource Administration Services
Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS An NQF level 6 in Human Resource Management / Finance or relevant
qualification. Two (2) years’ experience in HR Information Systems transacting
on PERSAL. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. PERSAL
Training, including Introduction to PERSAL and Establishment courses. Good
computer literacy in Ms Word, Excel and Outlook. Knowledge of HR
legislations. Knowledge in policy implementation, monitoring and evaluation
principles. Good communication skills both (verbal and written). Good problem
solving and analysis. Pay attention to detail. Understanding of maintaining
confidentiality on information. Understand cultural awareness. Be flexible and
initiative.
DUTIES : Manage User access rights and policy implementation. Respond to audit
findings. Ensure Users/Terminals are registered with SITA. Register user ID,
Reset ID, allocate functions in relation to users’ jobs and levels. Link User to
revisor, restrict user to terminal and component group. Manage dormant and
inactive Users. Issue reports on transactions awaiting approval and
authorization for more than a month. Approve and disapprove HR
establishment transactions. Provide Human Resource reports, downloading
FTP from PERSAL and Vulindlela. Co-ordinating PERSAL Training and provide
assistance to PERSAL users. Maintain the PERSAL staff establishment.
Creating and abolishing components/posts in accordance with approved
structure. Link responsibility and objective codes and link component groups.
Create system generated ID’s amend appointment dates. Filing of relevant
documentation. Register SCC’s (system change controls).
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ronald Mudau Tel No: (012) 336 7777
109
POST 24/133 : FINANCE CLERK PRODUCTION (X7 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Tzaneen Ref No: 240726/03 (X2 Posts)
Hartbeespoort Ref No: 240726/04 (X3 Posts)
Groblersdal Ref No: 240726/05 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate with accounting. Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel, Outlook). Basic knowledge of financial functions, practices as well as
the ability to capture data and collate financial statistics by use of
spreadsheets. Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service Financial
legislation, procedures and Treasury Regulations, PFMA, DORA, PSA, PISR,
PPPFA and Financial Manual. Knowledge of systems such as PERSAL and
SAP will be an advantage. Good communication skills, problem solving and
time management. Accountability, integrity, honesty and ethical conduct. Must
be able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Compiling, checking and capturing allowances on PERSAL e.g. Subsistence
and Travel claims, overtime, standby claims and payroll deduction
transactions. Liaise with third party with regards to court maintenance orders
to submit and implement. Distribute pay slips plus supplementary pay slips to
officials and submit signed certificates to head office. Attend to payroll
enquiries. Receive vendor invoices and keep accurate register. Compile and
complete accurate invoice spreadsheet each month. Liaise with different
sections regarding source documents. Compile documents and capture
invoices to pay vendors on SAP. Ensure that creditors are paid within 30 days.
Attend to vendor enquiries. Scan paid invoices onto SAP. Perform cashier
duties, receiving and issuing receipts and banking of cash. Perform petty cash
transactions. Order and distribute stationery. File all face value documents
systematically and complete. Attend to audit samples and ensure compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Kgokane at (087) 943 3719 Hartbeespoort
Mr D Maswanganye Tel No: (015) 307 8600 Tzaneen
Mr. J Masangu Tel No: (015) 262 6800 Groblersdal
NOTE : Two (2) posts are targeted for persons with disability.
POST 24/134 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK PRODUCTION (X5 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Hartbeespoort Area Offices Ref No: 240726/06 (X3 Posts)
Tzaneen Ref No: 240726/07 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate. Basic knowledge of supply chain management,
practices as well as the ability to capture data and operate computer. Basic
knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Working
knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework. Governing the
public service. Flexibility. Teamwork. Basic knowledge of problem solving and
analysis. People and diversity Management. Client orientation and customer
focus. Communication. Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Render demand and acquisition clerical support. Update and maintain a
supplier (including contractors) database. Register suppliers on Logis or similar
system. Request and receive quotations. Capture specification on the
electronic purchasing system. Place orders. Issue and receive bid documents.
Provide secretariat or logistical support during the bid consideration and
contracts conclusion process. Contractors database updated and well
maintained. Orders placed accordingly. Render logistical support services.
Place orders of goods. Receive and verify goods from suppliers. Capture
goods in registers databases. Receive request for goods from end users. Issue
goods to end users. Maintain goods register. Update and maintain register of
suppliers. Orders well placed. Keep filling records up to date. Electronic filing
system updated accordingly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Kgokane at (087) 943 3719 Hartbeespoort
Mr D Maswanganye Tel No: (015) 307 8600 Tzaneen
NOTE : One (1) post is targeted for a person with disability.
110
POST 24/135 : SECURITY OFFICER (SHIFTS WORK) REF NO: 240726/08 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Corporate Support Services
Dir: Security Management
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 (Matric) at NQF level 4. A valid Grade C Security Training
Course Certificate. and a valid Grade C PSIRA Certificate. One (1) to (2) two
years’ experience in the field of security will serve as an added advantage.
Knowledge of the access control procedures. Knowledge of measures for the
control and movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge of prescribed
security procedures (e.g. MISS, MPSS, Protection of Information Act, etc).
Knowledge of the relevant emergency procedures. Report writing skills. Able
to work under pressure. Able to work long hours and shifts. Investigation and
riot control skills. Effective communication skills. First aid and fire prevention
competencies. Searching and evacuations skills.
DUTIES : Perform access control functions. Ensure safety in the building and premises.
Ensure that equipment, documents and stores do not leave or enter the
building or premises unauthorised. Ensure that all incidents are recorded in the
occurrence book/registers. Operate control from room security equipment. The
successful candidate will be required to work shifts, including night shifts,
weekends, and public holidays.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Buys Tel No: (012) 336 8321
POST 24/136 : GOUNDSMAN REF NO: 240726/09
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Voelvlei Scheme (Western Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET certificate or relevant qualification. Zero to one year working
experience. Added years of experience in performing manual work will be an
added advantage. The following knowledge and competencies are required:
Knowledge of working on various general work and handling equipment and
appliances. Knowledge of gardening equipment including lawn care process
and competencies are required (pruning and trimming process and
techniques). Knowledge of chemical use (dilution/mix) and chemical product
knowledge. Knowledge of daily maintenance procedures for efficient
machine/equipment performance. Basic knowledge in supporting water
utilisation and water resource strategy. Knowledge of health and safety
procedures. Knowledge of garden maintenance and planting practices. Basic
understanding of Government legislation. Good communication skills and the
ability to work in a team. Must be able to work in or near rivers, dams, and
canals, and in confined spaces. Must be able and willing to assist other
schemes and maintenance teams when needed. Must be punctual, productive,
and loyal. Good communication and interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Cut vegetation and apply herbicide. Cut trees & grass at toe level on
embankments. clear weeds and sand at bridges, channels and suppers. Clear
sand traps and long weirs. Remove debris inlets-outlets structure. Inspect and
repair fences. Clear canal culverts. Fill & compact potholes on access road. Fill
and compact holes on embankments. Remove debris deposits inside canal.
Clean equipment. Remove all waste according to procedures. Clean glass and
plastic ware according to procedures. Maintain accurate records, such as job
cards and equipment repair logs. Stock taking of cleaning materials.
Requesting cleaning materials as and when needed. Clean storerooms,
kitchen, offices, corridors, and boardrooms any other environment allocated for
cleaning. Emptying waste bins. Prepare boardrooms for meetings. Arrange
crockery, utensils and cutlery required during meetings. Wash and keep stock
of crockery, utensils, and cutlery. Fill and refill drinking water containers. Clean
rest rooms. Refill hand wash liquid and toilet papers. Report broken machines
and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LCB Magalie Tel No: (023) 232 0426
111
POST 24/137 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: REF NO: 240726/10 (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Orange Vaal Free State: Bloemhof Dam
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET Certificate or relevant qualification. Must be able to read and write.
Zero (0) to one (1) years of experience. Good interpersonal and communication
skills, self-motivated and willingness to work, Ability to work under supervision,
independently and in a team. Work overtime when necessary. Knowledge of
gardening equipment and appliance. Knowledge of lawn care process.
Knowledge of pruning and trimming process and techniques. Knowledge of the
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Knowledge of chemical use. Knowledge
of maintenance procedures for efficient machines.
DUTIES : Perform routine relating to the maintenance of the structures and construction
work. Move and load heavy equipment on government water scheme. Clean
and maintain grounds and repair tools and structures such buildings fences
and benches using hand and power tools. Do maintenance in the garden and
other structures e.g. Dam wall, cutting grass, trimming trees, cleaning. Mix
spray or spread fertilizers, herbicides or insecticides onto grass, shrubs and
trees spraying with round-up (chemical) and maintenance on the side of the
road. Perform regular inspections on tools and report defaults. Provide proper
upkeep of sidewalks, driveways, parking lots fountains, planters and other
ground features. Maintain existing grounds/ gardens by caring for sod, plants
and trees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. HS Van der Westhuizen Tel No: (051) 405 9000
NOTE : Candidates may be required to complete a practical and theoretical test.
Please be advised that the office will transition to a SANWRI agency.
112
ANNEXURE T
PROVINICIAL ADMINISTRATION: EASTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted via hand delivery/courier to:
Alfred Nzo District Office - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Alfred Nzo District Office, 81 Murray Street, Kokstad, 4700. Enquiries: Mr K
Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070.
Amathole District Office: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Amathole Health District, 19 St James Road, Medical Centre Building,
Southernwood, East London, 5200. Enquiries: Ms S Njokweni Tel No: (043)
707 6748.
Buffalo City Metro District Office: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Buffalo City Metro District Office, Old Building BKB, No 79 Fitzpatrick
Road, Quigney, East London 5200. Enquires: Ms S Magoloti Tel No: (043) 708
1720.
Frere Tertiary Hospital: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Frere Hospital, Amalinda Main Road, East London, 5200 Enquiries: Ms N
Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532
Lilitha College of Nursing: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Room 43, 2nd floor, Human Resource Office, Lilitha College of Nursing, East
London, 5200. Enquiries: Ms P Mene Tel No: (043) 700 9717/26.
Chris Hani District Office: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Chris Hani District Office, Ward F, Queenstown, 5320. Enquiries: Mr S Magxiva
Tel No: (045) 8071110/1101.
Joe Gqabi District Office: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
Joe Gqabi District Office, 32 Dan Pienaar Street, Hot springs, Aliwal North
9750. Enquiries: Mr. J.S Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9631.
Nelson Mandela Metro Office: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Nelson Mandela Health District Office, (Old Walton Building)
Conyngham Street, Parson Hill, Gqeberha, 6057. Enquiries: Ms P Makuluma
Tel No: (041) 391 8164.
Livingstone Tertiary Hospital: Post to: Recruitment & Selection Section,
Private Bag x, Korsten, Gqeberha, 6014 or Hand deliver to Nurses Home, 2nd
Floor, Standford Road, and Korsten, Gqeberha, 6001. Enquiries: Ms L
Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348
OR Tambo District Office: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource Office,
OR Tambo Health District Office, 70 Blackway Street, Mthatha, 5099.
Enquiries: Ms A Sokutu Tel No: (047) 502 9000.
Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital: Hand deliver/courier to: Human
Resource Office, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital, Nelson Mandela Drive,
Mthatha, 5099. Enquiries: Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469.
Sarah Baartman District Office: Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Sarah Baartman Health District, No 66 Ring Road Road, Fairview Office
Park, Greenacres, Gqeberha, 6057. Enquiries: Ms T Sompontsha at 071 867
8865.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
NOTE : Applications must be posted on the new Z83 Form, a comprehensive CV,
indicating three reference persons: Name and Contact Numbers, A relationship
with reference. Applicants are only required to submit a Z83 form and a
comprehensive CV. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for a post will be
required to submit certified documents (copies of Qualification(s) inclusive of
Matric certificate, Identity document, Proof of registration, proof of citizenship
if not RSA citizen) on or before the day of the interview following communication
from HR. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Applicants
must note that further Personnel Suitability checks will be conducted on short-
listed candidates and that their appointment is subject to the outcome of these
checks which include security clearance, security vetting, qualification
verification and criminal record checks. Reference checks will be done on
nominated candidate(s). If you have not been contacted by the Department of
Health within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. We thank all applicants for their
interest. People with disabilities are encouraged to apply for these posts.
113
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/138 : DEPUTY MANAGER: PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES REF NO:
ECHEALTH/DPM/FRH/APL/01/07/2026
SALARY : R1 297 089 – R1 395 528 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive remuneration
package) - basic salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary
package will be structured according to Middle Management Service
guidelines.
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : B.Pharm or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South
African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a pharmacist. A minimum of 7 years
appropriate experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the SAPC of
which three (3) years of experience as a Pharmacist Supervisor/Assistant
Manager (or performing the functions) in the pharmaceutical environment.
Registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist A good understanding of relevant
legislation. National Drug Policy, the essential Drugs programme, Public
finance Management Act (PFMA), Medicines and related Substances Act and
Pharmacy Act. Sound leadership, analytic and computer proficiency Good
warehousing practice and pharmacy practice. Extensive knowledge of
pharmaceutical services’ approaches. Sound knowledge and understanding of
the mandate of the Medical supplies Depot. Knowledge and understanding of
the legislative prescripts governing the public service. Knowledge and skilled
in managing quality improvement programmes. Must be achievement-driven
and self-motivated. Be available to be a responsible pharmacist when required.
Good verbal, written communication and presentation skills. Good in team
building and problem solving. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To perform the duties of the warehouse manager in accordance with the
Pharmacy Act, GPP and GWP. Ensure compliance of the warehouse to
pharmacy and other relevant legislation. Ensure proper storage of medicines
at the depot and distribution to healthcare institutions and facilities. Strengthen
stakeholder and warehouse staff engagement to improve performance and
service delivery. Facilitate the development and maintenance of internal control
procedures to mitigate identified risks in the warehouse. Ensure the effective
and efficient use of warehouse resources. Represent pharmaceutical services
at relevant meetings and serve on various committees and participate in
relevant forums in forums in depot. Coordinate training programmes for
pharmacy assistants. Pharmacist interns and other support personnel.
Develop protocols, standard operating procedures and guidelines for efficient
and cost-effective pharmaceutical service. Supervise pharmacists and
pharmacist assistants. Maintain discipline and deal with grievances and labour
relations systems. Compiling report for submission to warehouse management
on monthly and quarterly basis.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to:
Noluthando.Mthitshana@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/139 : PN-D4 VICE PRINICPAL OF NURSING COLLEGE (SINGLE NURSING
COLLEGE) REF NO: ECHEALTH/VCP_SC/LCN/ES/01/07/2026
SALARY : R1 069 215 – R1 219 323 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive remuneration
package) (basic salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary
package will be structured according to Middle Management Service
guidelines.
CENTRE : Lilitha College of Nursing, East London Campus
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, NQF Level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Nursing,
NQF Level 8 as recognised by SAQA in Education and Management and NQF
Level 9 as recognised by SAQA in Health Sciences. A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/ recognizable nursing experience after registration as a
Professional nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 6 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognizable experience in
Nursing Education after obtaining the 1 year Post Basic Qualification.
Knowledge of Public Service Administration acts and legislation such as
National Health Act, CHE, SAQA, NQF, Nursing Act, rules and regulations,
colleges policies and Labour Relations Act. Excellent communication,
interpersonal and leadership skills, report writing skills, facilitation skills, liaison
114
skills, presentation skills, management skills, analytical skills, motivation skills
and research skills. Advanced computer literacy and a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage implementation of clinical and theoretical academic content at
Campus and sub-campus level. Ensure quality assurance and change
management in the implementation of all teaching and learning programmes
and student competencies. Co-ordinate and monitor community-based
education (CBE) and work-intergrated learning (WIL) at campus and sub-
campus. Ensure a conducive Teaching and Learning environments for
academics, students and clinical facilitators and provide seamless support
across all platforms. Facilitate effective and efficient implementation of college
policies in all disciplines. Oversee clinical allocation of learners in the identified
and approved clinical facilities for all the relevant disciplines. Monitor
compliance with to set standard as laid down by SANC, CHE, DHET & SAQA.
Ensure continuous staff capacity building to promote academic excellence
excellent. Exercise supervision and support to academic staff. Manage various
submission in relation to student academic matters including recruitment,
registration and SANC records. Facilitate a research culture for both
academics and students to promote evidence-based teaching and learning.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mene Tel No: (043) 700 9717/26
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to: Patricia.Mene@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/140 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER GRADE 1 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/SWM/FRH/APR/01/07/2026
SALARY : R1 009 512 – R1 154 271 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive remuneration
package) - basic salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary
package will be structured according to Middle Management Service
guidelines.
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Appropriate qualification (Degree in Social Work)
that allows registration with SACSSP. A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in social work after registration as Social
Worker with the SACSSP of which 3-5 years should be at a Social Work
Supervisory level. Registration with SACSSP as Social Worker.
Competencies: Strategic Capacity and Leadership, Programme and Project
management, Change Management, Financial Management, People
Management and Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving
and analysis, Client orientation and Customer Focus, Communication and
Advanced Computer Literacy. Knowledge and Skills: Expert skills to challenge
structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression, discrimination and
exclusion. Expert knowledge and understanding of human behaviour and
social systems and skills to intervene at the points where people interact with
their environments to promote social well-being. The ability and competence to
assist and empower individuals, families, groups, organisations and
communities to enhance their social functioning and their problem-solving
capacities, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources effectively in
cases where expert knowledge is required. The understanding and ability to
provide complex social work services towards protecting people who are
vulnerable, at-risk and unable to protect themselves. The ability to compile
complex reports. A valid South African drivers’ license is a prerequisite.
DUTIES : Provide a social work service of the highest, most advanced and specialised
nature within (a) defined area(s) of specialisation regarding the care, support,
protection and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and
communities through the relevant programmes in partnership with
stakeholders. Management and support to Developmental Social Welfare
Services Programmes in line with the legislation, policies, regulatory
framework, norms and standards focusing on the following: Services to Older
Persons, Persons with Disabilities, HIV & AIDS and Social Relief. Attend to any
other matters that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form.
Facilitate the development and planning of programmes and interventions to
render a social work service through the efficient, economical and effective
utilisation of financial resources. Manage a social work unit to ensure that an
efficient and effective social work service is delivered through the efficient and
effective utilisation of human resources. Keep up to date with new
developments in the social work and management fields. Plan and ensure that
social work research and development are undertaken. Undertake complex
115
social work research. Perform and/or ensure that all the administrative
functions required in the unit are performed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to:
Noluthando.Mthitshana@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/141 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING SPECIALTY (TRAUMA) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/AMN-TRAM/ARP/NTSG/01/07/2026
SALARY : R785 568 – R884 940 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/degree in Nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC in the relevant speciality. Registration with SANC as
Professional Nurse. A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 6 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/ recognisable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. At least 3 years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience at
management level. Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of
PFMA, Batho Pele Principles, Patient Rights Charter and other relevant legal
framework, Labour Relations and Public Service Acts. Managerial and
communication (both written and verbal), report writing and problem-solving
skills. Knowledge of six key priority areas, ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Demonstrate in in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts as well as
understanding of the legislative’s framework governing Public Service. Ensure
that the clinical nursing practice by the team is rendered in accordance with the
scope of practice and nursing standards as determined by the relevant health
facility. Promote quality of nursing care as directed by professional scope of
practice and standards determined by the health facility. Demonstrate a basic
understanding of HR and Financial policies and practices. Demonstrate in
depth understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practices and how it expects a service delivery. Demonstrate knowledge of
Neonatal Care Standards and in reporting and monitoring of indicators. Ensure
that the environment complies with Health and Safety Act and Infection
Prevention and Control Policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to: Noms.Tsotsobe@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/142 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING SPECIALTY (ONCOLOGY) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/AMN-ONC/NMAH/ARP/01/07/2026
SALARY : R785 568 – R884 940 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/degree in Nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC in Oncology Nursing Science. Registration with SANC as
Professional Nurse. A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 6 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/ recognisable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. At least 3 years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience at
management level. Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of
PFMA, Batho Pele Principles, Patient Rights Charter and other relevant legal
framework, Labour Relations and Public Service Acts. Managerial and
communication (both written and verbal), report writing and problem-solving
skills. Knowledge of six key priority areas, ability to work under pressure. A
valid driver’s license. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Demonstrate in in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts as well as
understanding of the legislative’s framework governing Public Service. Ensure
that the clinical nursing practice by the team is rendered in accordance with the
scope of practice and nursing standards as determined by the relevant health
facility. Promote quality of nursing care as directed by professional scope of
116
practice and standards determined by the health facility. Demonstrate a basic
understanding of HR and Financial policies and practices. Demonstrate in
depth understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practices and how it expects a service delivery. Demonstrate knowledge of
Neonatal Care Standards and in reporting and monitoring of indicators. Ensure
that the environment complies with Health and Safety Act and Infection
Prevention and Control Policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to:
Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/143 : REGISTERED COUNSELLOR REF NO:
ECHEALTH/RC/ANZODO/NHI/01/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
(1 year contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R741 102 – R821 070 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R844 128 – R935 049 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R953 094 – R1 055 292 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District
REQUIREMENTS : Honours Degree in Psychology/4 years Bachelor’s Degree in Psychology or
any other appropriate qualification that allows registration with Health
Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Registered Counsellor.
Registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade 1: none after
registration with HPCSA. Grade 2: A minimum of 8-years appropriate
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade
3: A minimum of 16 years’ appropriate experience after registration with
HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. A valid driver’s license.3: A minimum of 16
years’ appropriate experience after registration with HPCSA as a Registered
Counsellor.
DUTIES : They will be first line of community based support providing psycho –
education, conducting psychological and preventative interventions that focus
on the promotion and enhancement of psychosocial wellbeing for individuals,
families, groups and communities. Performing psychological screening, basic
assessment and psychological interventions with individuals and groups for the
purpose of mental health preliminary screening in order to refer appropriately.
Design, implement and monitor developmental programmes appropriate for all
systems levels. Provide counselling in conjunction with interdisciplinary
support teams. Report writing and providing feedback to clients on
interventions. Providing training and promotion of primary psychosocial
wellbeing. Referral to appropriate professionals or other appropriate resources.
Will often report to the local public clinical psychologist employed within the
District.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Praim Tel No: (039) 797 6070
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to:
Loyiso.Xhelithole@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/144 : REGISTERED COUNSELLOR REF NO:
ECHEALTH/RC/AMADO/NHI/01/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
(1 year contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R741 102 – R821 070 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R844 128 – R935 049 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R953 094 – R1 055 292 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Amathole District
REQUIREMENTS : Honours Degree in Psychology/4 years Bachelor’s Degree in Psychology or
any other appropriate qualification that allows registration with Health
Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Registered Counsellor.
Registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade 1: none after
registration with HPCSA. Grade 2: A minimum of 8-years appropriate
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade
3: A minimum of 16 years’ appropriate experience after registration with
HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : They will be first line of community-based support providing psycho –
education, conducting psychological and preventative interventions that focus
on the promotion and enhancement of psychosocial wellbeing for individuals,
families, groups and communities. Performing psychological screening, basic
assessment and psychological interventions with individuals and groups for the
117
purpose of mental health preliminary screening in order to refer appropriately.
Design, implement and monitor developmental programmes appropriate for all
systems levels. Provide counselling in conjunction with interdisciplinary
support teams. Report writing and providing feedback to clients on
interventions. Providing training and promotion of primary psychosocial
wellbeing. Referral to appropriate professionals or other appropriate resources.
Will often report to the local public clinical psychologist employed within the
District.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Njokweni Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to: Themba.Toko@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/145 : REGISTERED COUNSELLOR REF NO:
ECHEALTH/RC/BCMDO/NHI/01/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
(1 year contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R741 102 – R821 070 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R844 128 – R935 049 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R953 094 – R1 055 292 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro
REQUIREMENTS : Honours Degree in Psychology/4 years Bachelor’s Degree in Psychology or
any other appropriate qualification that allows registration with Health
Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Registered Counsellor.
Registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade 1: none after
registration with HPCSA. Grade 2: A minimum of 8-years appropriate
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade
3: A minimum of 16 years’ appropriate experience after registration with
HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : They will be first line of community-based support providing psycho –
education, conducting psychological and preventative interventions that focus
on the promotion and enhancement of psychosocial wellbeing for individuals,
families, groups and communities. Performing psychological screening, basic
assessment and psychological interventions with individuals and groups for the
purpose of mental health preliminary screening in order to refer appropriately.
Design, implement and monitor developmental programmes appropriate for all
systems levels. Provide counselling in conjunction with interdisciplinary
support teams. Report writing and providing feedback to clients on
interventions. Providing training and promotion of primary psychosocial
wellbeing. Referral to appropriate professionals or other appropriate resources.
Will often report to the local public clinical psychologist employed within the
District.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Magoloti Tel No: (043) 708 1720
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to:
Simphiwe.Mangoloti@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/146 : REGISTERED COUNSELLOR REF NO:
ECHEALTH/RC/CHDO/NHI/01/07/2026 (X5 POSTS)
(1 year contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R741 102 – R821 070 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R844 128 – R935 049 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R953 094 – R1 055 292 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Chris Hani District
REQUIREMENTS : Honours Degree in Psychology/4 years Bachelor’s Degree in Psychology or
any other appropriate qualification that allows registration with Health
Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Registered Counsellor.
Registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade 1: none after
registration with HPCSA. Grade 2: A minimum of 8-years appropriate
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade
3: A minimum of 16 years’ appropriate experience after registration with
HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : They will be first line of community-based support providing psycho –
education, conducting psychological and preventative interventions that focus
on the promotion and enhancement of psychosocial wellbeing for individuals,
families, groups and communities. Performing psychological screening, basic
assessment and psychological interventions with individuals and groups for the
purpose of mental health preliminary screening in order to refer appropriately.
Design, implement and monitor developmental programmes appropriate for all
118
systems levels. Provide counselling in conjunction with interdisciplinary
support teams. Report writing and providing feedback to clients on
interventions. Providing training and promotion of primary psychosocial
wellbeing. Referral to appropriate professionals or other appropriate resources.
Will often report to the local public clinical psychologist employed within the
District.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Magxiva Tel No: (045) 8071110/1101
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to:
Siphiwo.Magxiva@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/147 : REGISTERED COUNSELLOR REF NO:
ECHEALTH/RC/JGDO/NHI/01/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
(1 year contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R741 102 – R821 070 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R844 128 – R935 049 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R953 094 – R1 055 292 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District
REQUIREMENTS : Honours Degree in Psychology/4 years Bachelor’s Degree in Psychology or
any other appropriate qualification that allows registration with Health
Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Registered Counsellor.
Registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade 1: none after
registration with HPCSA. Grade 2: A minimum of 8-years appropriate
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade
3: A minimum of 16 years’ appropriate experience after registration with
HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : They will be first line of community-based support providing psycho –
education, conducting psychological and preventative interventions that focus
on the promotion and enhancement of psychosocial wellbeing for individuals,
families, groups and communities. Performing psychological screening, basic
assessment and psychological interventions with individuals and groups for the
purpose of mental health preliminary screening in order to refer appropriately.
Design, implement and monitor developmental programmes appropriate for all
systems levels. Provide counselling in conjunction with interdisciplinary
support teams. Report writing and providing feedback to clients on
interventions. Providing training and promotion of primary psychosocial
wellbeing. Referral to appropriate professionals or other appropriate resources.
Will often report to the local public clinical psychologist employed within the
District.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J.S Ndzinde Tel No: (051) 633 9631
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to: Joseph.Ndzinde@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/148 : REGISTERED COUNSELLOR REF NO:
ECHEALTH/RC/NMMDO/NHI/01/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
(1 year contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R741 102 – R821 070 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R844 128 – R935 049 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R953 094 – R1 055 292 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro
REQUIREMENTS : Honours Degree in Psychology/4 years Bachelor’s Degree in Psychology or
any other appropriate qualification that allows registration with Health
Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Registered Counsellor.
Registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade 1: none after
registration with HPCSA. Grade 2: A minimum of 8-years appropriate
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade
3: A minimum of 16 years’ appropriate experience after registration with
HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : They will be first line of community-based support providing psycho –
education, conducting psychological and preventative interventions that focus
on the promotion and enhancement of psychosocial wellbeing for individuals,
families, groups and communities. Performing psychological screening, basic
assessment and psychological interventions with individuals and groups for the
purpose of mental health preliminary screening in order to refer appropriately.
Design, implement and monitor developmental programmes appropriate for all
systems levels. Provide counselling in conjunction with interdisciplinary
support teams. Report writing and providing feedback to clients on
119
interventions. Providing training and promotion of primary psychosocial
wellbeing. Referral to appropriate professionals or other appropriate resources.
Will often report to the local public clinical psychologist employed within the
District.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Makuluma Tel No: (041) 391 8164
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to:
Princess.Makuluma@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/149 : REGISTERED COUNSELLOR REF NO:
ECHEALTH/RC/ORTDO/NHI/01/07/2026 (X3 POSTS)
(1 year contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R741 102 – R821 070 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R844 128 – R935 049 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R953 094 – R1 055 292 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : Honours Degree in Psychology/4 years Bachelor’s Degree in Psychology or
any other appropriate qualification that allows registration with Health
Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Registered Counsellor.
Registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade 1: none after
registration with HPCSA. Grade 2: A minimum of 8-years appropriate
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade
3: A minimum of 16 years’ appropriate experience after registration with
HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : They will be first line of community-based support providing psycho –
education, conducting psychological and preventative interventions that focus
on the promotion and enhancement of psychosocial wellbeing for individuals,
families, groups and communities. Performing psychological screening, basic
assessment and psychological interventions with individuals and groups for the
purpose of mental health preliminary screening in order to refer appropriately.
Design, implement and monitor developmental programmes appropriate for all
systems levels. Provide counselling in conjunction with interdisciplinary
support teams. Report writing and providing feedback to clients on
interventions. Providing training and promotion of primary psychosocial
wellbeing. Referral to appropriate professionals or other appropriate resources.
Will often report to the local public clinical psychologist employed within the
District.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Mtimba Tel No: (047) 502 9000
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to: Zukiswa.Mtimba@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/150 : REGISTERED COUNSELLOR REF NO:
ECHEALTH/RC/SBDO/NHI/01/07/2026
(1 year contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R741 102 – R821 070 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R844 128 – R935 049 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R953 094 – R1 055 292 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District
REQUIREMENTS : Honours Degree in Psychology/4 years Bachelor’s Degree in Psychology or
any other appropriate qualification that allows registration with Health
Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Registered Counsellor.
Registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade 1: none after
registration with HPCSA. Grade 2: A minimum of 8-years appropriate
experience after registration with HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. Grade
3: A minimum of 16 years’ appropriate experience after registration with
HPCSA as a Registered Counsellor. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : They will be first line of community-based support providing psycho –
education, conducting psychological and preventative interventions that focus
on the promotion and enhancement of psychosocial wellbeing for individuals,
families, groups and communities. Performing psychological screening, basic
assessment and psychological interventions with individuals and groups for the
purpose of mental health preliminary screening in order to refer appropriately.
Design, implement and monitor developmental programmes appropriate for all
systems levels. Provide counselling in conjunction with interdisciplinary
support teams. Report writing and providing feedback to clients on
interventions. Providing training and promotion of primary psychosocial
wellbeing. Referral to appropriate professionals or other appropriate resources.
120
Will often report to the local public clinical psychologist employed within the
District.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Sompontsha at 071 867 8865
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to:
Thandi.Sompontsha@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/151 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (AREA) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/AMN/LIV/APL/01/07/2026
SALARY : R720 819 – R846 282 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing or equivalent
qualification. Registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A minimum of 8 years appropriate experience after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC of which at least 3 years
should be at a managerial level. Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team.
Knowledge of PFMA, Batho Pele Principles, Patient Rights Charter and other
relevant legal frameworks, Labour Relations and Public Service Acts.
Managerial and communication (both written and verbal), report writing and
problem solving skills. Knowledge of six key priority areas, ability to work under
pressure. A valid driver’s licence. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Delegate, supervise and co-ordinate the provision of the effective and efficient
patient care through adequate nursing care. Develop/establish and maintain
constructive relationships with nursing and other stakeholders (i.e.,
interpersonal, inter-sectoral and multi-disciplinary teamwork). Participate in the
analysis formulation of nursing guidelines, norms, and standards. Manage
effective utilization and supervision of human, financial and material resources.
In the department. Provide management support, guidance, and direction to
personnel under her or his supervision towards the realization of strategic goals
and objectives of the Nursing Department. Coordination of provision of
effective training and research. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards
and self-development. Participate in SANC CPD Programme. Comply with the
Performance Management and Development System (contracting, reviews
and final assessment). Demonstrate effective communication with supervisors,
other health professionals and support services personnel and junior
colleagues, including more complex report writing when required. Able to
manage own work and that of units reporting to the post, and to ensure
appropriate interventions to enhance nursing services at are/ facility level. Able
to develop and maintain a nursing service environment that promotes the rights
of patients, advocating and facilitating proper treatment and care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to: Noms.Tsotsobe@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/152 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (AREA) - NIGHT DUTY REF NO:
ECHEALTH/AMN/FRH/APL/01/07/2026
SALARY : R720 819 – R846 282 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification i.e. Diploma / Degree in Nursing or equivalent
qualification. Registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A minimum of 8 years’ appropriate experience after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC of which at least 3 years
should be at a managerial level. Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team.
Knowledge of PFMA, Batho Pele Principles, Patient Rights Charter and other
relevant legal frameworks, Labour Relations and Public Service Acts.
Managerial and communication (both written and verbal), report writing and
problem-solving skills. Knowledge of six key priority areas, ability to work under
pressure. A valid driver’s licence. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Delegate, supervise and coordinate the provision of effective and effective
patient care through adequate nursing care. Coordinate and monitor the
implementation of nursing care plan and evaluation thereof. Develop, establish
and maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders (interprofessional, intersectoral and multi-disciplinary teamwork).
Participate in the analysis, formulation and implementation of nursing
guidelines, practices, standards and procedures. Monitor & ensure proper
utilization of financial & physical resources. Utilize information technology and
other management information systems to manage nursing information for the
121
enhancement of service delivery: Advocate and ensure the promotion of
nursing ethos and professionalism.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532.
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to:
Noluthando.Mthitshana@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/153 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RADIATION ONCOLOGY GRADE 1-2 REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ADRADO/NMAH/ARP/NTSG/01/07/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R664 410 – R735 930 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R756 444 – R839 532 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification in radiotherapy that allows for registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an independent
practitioner. Registration with the HPCSA as Radiotherapist (Independent
Practice). Experience: A minimum of 5 years of experience in the relevant field
post community service of which 3 years must be at a supervisory/managerial
capacity. Experience in a hospital environment, supervisory experience and
additional qualifications in the relevant field will be an added advantage.
Knowledge, skills and Competencies: Sound knowledge of relevant legislation
guiding the provision of clinical health care in the public sector. I.e., Health Act,
Occupational health and Safety, Patients Right Charter, Batho Pele principles,
Ministerial priorities, Ideal Hospitals Realization Framework etc. Good
communication skills, Report writing skills, problem solving and decision
making, and computer skills. Sound knowledge and skills in a clinical setting.
A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Plan, implement, co-ordinate and monitor daily activities in the Radiation
Therapy department. Manage the operations and workflow of the department
by maintaining appropriate schedules (patient and staffing). Ensure optimal
clinical management and good governance of Radiotherapy services including
all resources in the section. Ordering of supplies utilizing Logis to ensure
sufficient stock. Monitor performance improvement, safety, quality, regulatory
and accreditation standards. Supports the organization’s mission, priorities and
goals by delivering cost effective optimal quality treatment and care to cancer
patients. Ensure equipment and procedures are safe, functional and capable
of meeting the needs in a timely manner and all necessary and required QA/QC
activities are performed appropriately and all QA/QC equipment is properly
maintained in accordance with the requirements of Radiation Control. Keep
abreast of new developments in Radiation Therapy and make
recommendations for the acquisition and implementation of new technology.
Participate in the development of treatment programs, SOP’s, department
policies, and audits. Responsible for the development of operation and
strategic plans for the department. Manage provision of high-quality services
through development and implementation of appropriate systems, quality
assurance programs and internal controls. Manage human resources and
provide clinical support to junior staff and training program for students.
Assume effective managerial/administrative responsibilities such as report
writing, audits, Statistics, performance appraisal, meetings, labour relations,
legal report writing, leave management, policy development etc. Manage
planning, budgeting, procurement processes and exercise control of
expenditure within your departmental cost center. Safeguard and evaluate the
status of equipment and infrastructure with a repair and maintenance
programme. Market and promote Radiotherapy services and contribute
towards research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469.
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to:
Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/154 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PHYSIOTHERAPIST REF NO: ECHEALTH/ASD-
PH/APL/01/07/2026
SALARY : R664 410 – R735 930 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Buffalo City Metro, Frere Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Physiotherapist. Registration with the
HPCSA as Physiotherapist (Independent Practice. Experience: A minimum of
3 years’ appropriate experience as Physiotherapist after registration with the
122
HPCSA of which 5 years must be appropriate experience in Management. The
candidate must be able to manage and supervise a subsection of the
department with thorough knowledge of radiographic techniques, radiation
protection, quality assurance, PACS and equipment safety. Competencies:
Sound knowledge of radiation protection, quality assurance and equipment
safety. Computer literacy (MS Windows, Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Good
written and verbal communication skills. Demonstrates effective interpersonal
skill, good administrative, strategic planning organizational skills, leadership
qualities and supervisory skills Knowledge of Patient Archiving and
Communication Basic knowledge of budget planning as well as the Public
Finance and Management Act. Good understanding of public hospital
operational systems. Knowledge of relevant Health and Safety Acts,
Knowledge of relevant Public Service policies, acts and regulations,
Knowledge of Public Health Sector Quality Improvement Initiatives, Conflict
resolution and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : To manage, coordinate and administer the operations of the Occupational
Therapy services in the Livingstone Tertiary Hospital. Ensure the effective,
efficient and cost-effective management of allocated Resources of the
Department. To participate & work closely with the interdisciplinary team
members. Provision of strategic leadership in striving towards an optimization
of occupational therapy services. Facilitate training & development of staff and
students. Provide supervision and performance evaluation. Manage Quality
Assurance and Clinical governance within the occupational therapy section.
Communicate effectively with all stakeholders. Management and
administration duties of the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mthitshana Tel No: (043) 709 2487/2532
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to:
Noluthando.Mthitshana@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/155 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER GENERAL REF NO: ECHEALTH/OPM-
G/LIV/APL/01/07/2026
SALARY : R571 161 - R654 285 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic qualification accredited with the South African Nursing Council in terms
of government Notice R425 (i.e. Degree/ Diploma in Nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A
minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of resources.
Participation in training and research. Provision of support to Nursing Services.
Maintain professional Growth/ethical standards and self-development.
Promote and ensure quality of nursing care as directed by the professional
scope of practice and standards as determined by the relevant health facility.
Demonstrate basic understanding of human resource, financial policies,
nursing legislation, relevant ethical nursing practice and how this impact on
service delivery. Demonstrate effective communication with patients,
supervisors, other health professionals and junior colleagues including more
complex report writing when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to: Noms.Tsotsobe@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/156 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR: (INFECTION PREVENTION
AND CONTROL) REF NO: ECHEALTH/CPC-IPC/LIV/APL/01/07/2026
SALARY : R571 161 - R654 285 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R254) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. OR A 4-year bachelor’s
degree in nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171
plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Certificate in Infection
Prevention and Control. A minimum of 7 years appropriate / recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
123
in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job. Valid (code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight of relevant
legislation and policy related to nursing s within the public sector and basic
computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook, TEAMS, Zoom). Experience
in Infection Prevention and Control environment. Ability to promote quality
patient care through the setting, implementation and monitoring of standards.
Effective communication, interpretation, leadership, decision-making and
conflict resolution and organizational skills. Ability to make independent
decisions. An understanding of the challenges facing the public health sector.
Ability to priorities issues and other work-related matters and to comply with
time frames. High level of accuracy.
DUTIES : Monitor Infection Prevention and Control indicators using identification tools
and report on matters arising. Train and develop employees in Infection
Prevention and Control practices to develop the necessary insight to sustain a
climate sensitive to Infection Prevention and Control needs. Conduct
inspections to ensure that Infection Prevention and Control plans are
developed and thoroughly implemented. Manage the establishment and
training of Infection Prevention and Control Committees at health facilities.
Interact with external health accreditation representatives to identify areas for
improvement. Revise all policies, procedures, and standards regularly.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to: Noms.Tsotsobe@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/157 : RADIATION ONCOLOGY RADIOGRAPHER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/ROR/NMAH/ARP/NTSG/01/07/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R510 906 – R581 892 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R598 260 – R683 808 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R703 785 – R756 444 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification (National diploma/Degree in Radiography - Radiation
Oncology) in that allows for registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) as an independent practitioner. Registration with
HPCSA with as a Radiographer. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
with HPCSA as Radiation Oncology (Therapy) radiographer in respect of RAS-
qualified employees / health professionals. One-year relevant experience after
registration with HPCSA in Radiation Oncology (Therapy) Radiographer in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community service as required in the RSA. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years’
relevant experience after registration with HPCSA as Radiation Oncology
(Therapy) Radiographer in respect of RSA - qualified employees/ health
professionals. 11 years after registration with HPCSA in respect of foreign
qualified health professionals. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years’ relevant
experience after registration with HPCSA as Radiation Oncology (Therapy)
Radiographer in respect of RSA- qualified employees and 21 years in respect
of foreign employees. Inherent requirement of the job: Do an afterhours on call
as rostered. Work late as deemed necessary to fulfill operational requirements.
Knowledge, skills and Competencies required: good communication skills,
Report writing skills, ability to function as part of the team, problem solving and
decision making. Good Computer skills especially excel, PowerPoint literacy,
MS word etc.), Sound knowledge of relevant legislation guiding the provision
of radiation oncology and clinical health care in the public sector. I.e. Patients
Right Charter, Batho Pele principles, Ministerial priorities, National Core
standards etc. Willing to rotate within areas of work in the allocated hospital
work areas.
DUTIES : Perform and assist with coordination treatment or planning or CT simulations
or Quality assurance and related radiotherapy activities with RTTs, community
service and student RTTs to ensure effective patient throughout. Ensure safe
handling of patients and assist in patient positioning and immobilization.
Accustomed to linear accelerator orthovoltage treatments, Aria and Eclipse
planning systems. Ensure patients are accurately treated and or planned
according to clinicians’ instructions and give administrative and information
support to the Chief. Ensure Quality Assurance of treatment and planning of
patients and ensure that optimal work is executed. Administer appropriate
patient care and quality assurance procedures on the treatment floor or
planning. Participating in continuous professional development and assisting
in in-service training of radiation therapists, students, and other visiting staff.
124
Assist Medical Physicists in the quality control of equipment. Monitor and keep
stock of consumables and assets within the section. Liaise with of all levels
within and occasionally outside the division, on issues pertaining to the
assigned patient involvement in CPD activities and departmental lectures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to:
Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/158 : ULTRASOUND RADIOGRAPHER REF NO:
ECHEALTH/USR/LIV/ARP/01/07/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R510 906 – R581 892 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R598 260 – R683 808 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R703 785 – R756 444 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the HPCSA in the
relevant profession. Registration with the health Professional Council of South
Africa (HPCSA). Grade 1: experience none after registration with the health
professional council of South Africa (HPCSA) in the relevant profession (where
applicable) in respect of qualified employees who performed community
services as required. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ relevant experience
after registration with HPCSA in the relevant profession in respect of qualified
employees who performed community service as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with
HPCSA in the relevant profession in respect of qualified employees who
performed community service as required in South Africa. Knowledge in the
application of clinical theory practice, ethics in health care, current, clinical
literature, current protocols as well as current health public services regulation
and policies, skills in terms of consultation, examination, clinical assessment
and clinical treatment procedure.
DUTIES : Prepare and position patient for exams, explain the procedure to alleviate
anxiety, and ensure their comfort and privacy during the scan. Calibrate and
manipulate ultrasound transducers and equipment to capture high-quality
images of specific areas such as abdomen pelvis, heart, or developing fetus.
Assist physician and radiologist with specialized, ultrasound guided
procedures. Maintain patient records, manage examination schedules,
ensures the equipment is sanitized and monitor department supply level.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to: Noms.Tsotsobe@echealth.gov.za
POST 24/159 : DIETITAN (CLINICAL TUTOR) REF NO: ECHEALTH/DIET-
CT/ARP/HTPD/01/07/2026
SALARY : Grade 2: R482 499 – R550 389 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R564 822 – R683 808 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Livingstone Tertiary Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows for registration with HPCSA as a Dietitian.
Registration with HPCSA as a Dietitian (Independent practice). A minimum of
10 years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Dietitian.
A master’s degree in nutrition and/or Dietetics will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of relevant Acts, regulations, policies, strategies, guidelines, and
protocols within the department of health that impact on nutrition outcomes,
student learning and training. Comprehensive knowledge of current dietetics
practices, professional ethics, and healthcare delivery systems. Thorough
understanding of HPCSA accreditation standards, specifically those related to
supervised experiential learning and core competencies. Exceptional written
and verbal communication skills, including the ability to negotiate and maintain
professional relationships with diverse stakeholders (students, faculty,
preceptors, and administrators). Excellent organizational, time management,
and problem-solving skills, with a proven ability to manage complex scheduling
and administrative tasks. Proficiency in standard office software and
experience utilizing learning management systems (LMS) and student tracking
software. Ability to work in multi-disciplinary environment. Additional
requirements: sound knowledge in food service management and clinical
nutrition. Prior experience in student learning, training and supervision will be
an added advantage.
125
DUTIES : Assist with identifying, negotiating, and maintaining affiliation agreements
(Memoranda of Understanding) with a variety of appropriate clinical,
community, food service, and research settings to provide comprehensive
supervised practice experiences. Ensure the quality and consistency of student
learning experiences and adherence to programme objectives across the two
training sites of Livingstone Hospital and Port Elizabeth Provincial Hospital.
Provide supervision, clinical support and training of university students.
Coordinate the placement of students at the two training sites ensuring all
students complete the required number of hours in diverse settings. Develop
and conduct comprehensive orientation sessions for students prior to the start
of their supervised practice rotations. Implement, monitor, and manage the
student evaluation process, including mid-point and final evaluations
completed by supervisors and reflective assignments completed by students.
Collaborate with relevant staff members to integrate clinical and food service
management learning objectives with coursework, ensuring a seamless
transition from classroom to practice. Maintain meticulous records of student
placements, supervised practice hours, supervisor training, assessments and
student performance data, fulfilling accreditation requirements. Participate
actively in program review, assessment, and accreditation activities,
specifically providing data and narrative related to the supervised experiential
learning component. Participate in staff training program at the two training
sites. Facilitate and provide optimal nutritional care to patients, especially
during times when there are no students at the training site. Good governance
and quality assurance of experiential learning objectives. May teach or prepare
one or more courses related to food service management, clinical nutrition, or
professional practice as assigned by the chief clinical coordinator. Market and
promote Dietetic services and contribute towards research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Mabanga Tel No: (041) 405 2348
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted electronically via email to: Noms.Tsotsobe@echealth.gov.za
126
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS, CULTURE AND RECREATION
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below position, please apply online at
https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za Or Email: SACR.RecSMS@gauteng.gov.za. Only
online applications will be considered and for general enquiries please contact
Human Resource on Ms. Itumeleng Maisane: 082 810 6152 / Mr. Ouwen
Gaveni: 071 855 8934
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 at 23:59 pm
NOTE : Applications should be submitted online at
http://professionaljobcentre.gpg.gov.za (New Z83 form must be attached.
Certified copies of qualifications and other supporting documents will be
required from shortlisted candidates. “Applicants are advised that until 31
December 2020 the current application for employment (Z83) form will be
applicable, however from 01st January 2021, a new application form which can
be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. Applications quoting the
relevant reference number must be submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable
from any Public Service Department or on internet at www.gov.za/documents.
Received applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83)
will not be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents (new Z83 and CV)
will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and
interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric
assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences,
emotional intelligence, and integrity. If you have not been contacted within
three (03) months after the closing date of this advertisement, based on the
unfolding recruitment and selection processes, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate
will be required to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action
employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the
employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race,
127
gender and disability) through the filling of these post(s). Successful completion
of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) is required before
the appointment can be made for Senior Management posts. Enrolment for the
course should be made on the NSG’s website at
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme suitably
qualified, dynamic, passionate, and experienced qualifying persons are invited
to apply for the vacant position.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 24/160 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: ARTS, CULTURE AND HERITAGE REF NO:
REFS/050114
Directorate: Arts, Culture and Heritage
(05 Years Contract)
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have Grade 12 plus an appropriate
undergraduate qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) in Culture and Heritage Studies / Fine Arts /
Dramatic Art / Performing & Visual Art / Film & Television or relevant
management qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years’
experience in Senior Management level in relevant environment. A valid
driver’s license, No criminal record, A compulsory Pre-Entry Senior
Management Certificate issued by the National School of Governance (NSG).
Skills: Decision making. Management of projects. Technical Analytic skills.
Negotiation. Financial Management. Strategic and operational. Planning and
organizing. Problem solving. Conflict management. Verbal and written.
Communication. Leadership. Computer literacy. Report writing. Relationship
management. Knowledge: PFMA and Applicable Legislations and prescripts.
DUTIES : Coordinate and serve as the custodian of heritage resources in the province.
Provide advice to the MEC on the implementation of NHRA and relevant
provincial and municipal legislation. Manage and promote the systematic
identification, recording, and assessment of Gauteng heritage resources that
form part of the national estate. Manage the establishment of policy, objectives
and strategy plans for heritage resources management. Coordinate and
monitor the implementation of NHRA for efficient and effective heritage
conservation. Manage and promote creative arts in clusters. Manage and
promote creative arts in communities. Provide value adding report to
management and external stakeholders on a timeous. Monitor the provision of
policies and procedures within the programme. Manage and promote
museums and monuments services. Manage and promote languages services
within the province. Manage geographical names and standardization of
databases within the province. Mange indigenous knowledge systems and
national symbols. Manage memorialization, repatriation and reburial services
in the province. Provide support service to creative industries. Manage the
development of Performing Arts, Music and Dance industries. Manage the
development of visual arts, craft and design. Research and keep abreast of
breast practice initiatives and developments within the chief directorate.
Develop business/ strategic plan for the directorates and align it with Chief
Directorate and ensure implementation thereof. Oversee the development and
implementation of operational plans for the chief directorate. Manage the
development and coordination of service delivery improvement plan. Oversee
and ensure provision of coaching, disciplining and mentoring of staff to improve
performance. Manage the performance of staff and ensure assessment of their
performance agreements. Consolidate and manage the budget in the chief
directorate. Authorize, control and monitor the budget and expenditure.
Manage the compilation of various reports and statistics. Manage leaves the
chief directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane at 082 810 6152 / Mr. Ouwen Gaveni at 071 855 8934
128
OTHER POST
POST 24/161 : EXTERNAL CHAIRPERSON RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REF NO:
REFS/050115
(03 Years Contract)
Directorate: Risk Management
SALARY : National Treasury Prescribed rates will apply for the remuneration as amended
annually
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : The successful candidate should have a Grade 12 Certificate, at least a 3 years
relevant Degree in (Legal/ Accounting/ Risk Management/ Auditing and
Financial Management). Post-graduate qualifications will be added advantage.
Candidates should have worked within the Risk Management Environment for
more than 5 years. Previous experience as a Risk/Audit chairperson is
preferable In addition, the following: Skills and attributes are required for this
role: integrity, Independence, dedication, understanding of public sector
business and controls. Excellent communication skills (verbal and written).
Knowledge: A good understanding of the recent developments within the Risk
Management field and Corporate Governance, Public Finance Management
Act, Treasury Regulations, EWRM, ISO 31 000 Revised 2019, COSO model
and Public Sector Risk Management Framework as well as IT frameworks
pertaining to governance and previous experience as a risk champion in
government entities as an added advantage , preference will be given to
candidates with membership with IRMSA/ACFE/SAICA as an advantage.
DUTIES : The candidate will Chair the Departmental Risk Management Committee and
provide an oversight role regarding monitoring the implementation of risk
management within the Department. Review relevant Risk policies /strategies
and other working procedures. Review Risk Management Actions Plans to be
instituted and ensure compliance with such plans. Integration of Risk
Management into planning, monitoring, and reporting processes. Review of
risk appetite and tolerance levels of the Department. Provide quarterly reports
to the Accounting Officer and other management committees. Implementation
of risk maturity model and measurement of the effectiveness of Departmental
Risk Management functions and integration.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Itumeleng Maisane at 082 810 6152 / Mr. Ouwen Gaveni at 071 855 8934
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS AND TRANSPORT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below positions, please apply online at
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. For general enquiries please contact Human
Resource on Tel No: (011) 355-7082/7043. Only online applications will be
considered.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
NOTE : Applicants must utilise the most recent Z83 application form for employment,
issued by the Minister for the Public Service and Administration in line with
Regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016. All fields in the New
Z83 form must be completed, initialled and signed. Furthermore, a
comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) must also be attached. Failure to attach
the completed Z83 and Comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) will result in
disqualification. The New Z83 form is obtainable from any Public Service
Department or the DPSA website www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Only
shortlisted candidates who meet all the requirements of the post will be
requested to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
valid driver’s license (where driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the
job) not older than six (06) months. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. It is our intention to promote representation (race, gender and
disability) in the Public Service through the filling of posts and candidates
whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representation will receive
preference. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity through the filling
of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate
this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability status is
required. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The
129
Department reserves the right not to appoint. If you do not receive any
response from us within 3 months, please accept your application was
unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/162 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CENTRE MANAGER REF NO: REFS/050295
Branch: Transport
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Kagiso
REQUIRMENTS : NQF level 6/7 in Public Administration / Public Management / Finance / BA
Licencing / Transport Management / Traffic Management. Must be in
possession of a Examiner of Driving License / Examiner of Motor Vehicles/
NaTIS Certificates. 3-5 years’ experience in Assistant Director Level. Valid
Driver’s License. Knowledge and skills: GPG and GPDRT policies and
procedures; relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations, understanding
of expectations of customers, knowledge of SLAs. Knowledge of GPG political
and executive structures. Knowledge of NRTA, BCEA, PSA, LRA, PFMA,
POPIA and PAJA. Competency in Community Relations, Stakeholder
Relationship Management, Research, Computer Utilisation, Financial
Management, and Business Performance Management.
DUTIES : Manage the NaTIS system used in the processing and issuing of Motor Vehicle,
Driver Licenses and Vehicle Testing Station where existing. Ensure that routine
maintenance projects for the Centre are executed. Ensure routine
maintenance of calibration machines and test yard marking. Conduct regular
staff meetings within the centre. Assist with resolution of complaints and
concerns by staff and members of the public. Monitor execution of projects and
contracts in accordance with best practice standards, time, quality and budget.
Manage and monitor documents and records management within the
Provincial Registering Authority Centre. Manage the budget of the Provincial
Registering Authority Centre. Provide input into the compilation and
administration of the annual budget. Ensure that the budget plan is compiled
and submitted in time. Ensure compliance with all audit requirements and
recommendations. Manage and monitor Provincial Registering budget and
expenditure per allocation. Ensure that all budget reports are compiled and
submitted to management. Manage and develop budget allocation. Manage
and prevent fraud and corruption within the Provincial Registering Authority
Centre environment. Implement departmental risk management strategy.
Develop and implement measures to eliminate fraud and corruption behaviour
and activities. Monitor and manage operational risk of a Provincial Registering
Centre. Ensure compliance with all audit requirements and recommendations.
Compile Monthly Reports of the component. Evaluate and act on all applicable
monthly/quarterly and annual reports. Submit input into the compilation of
reports and other documents. Compile weekly/monthly/quarterly Anti – fraud
and corruption reports. Manage Human Resources within the Provincial
Registering Authority centre. Lead human resource management functions and
policies, including staff development and staff well-being. Manage personnel
within the Provincial Registering Centre. Hold monthly staff meetings. Monitor
and advising on recruitment of personnel to vacant positions. Process and
approve leave applications through ESS system and other official means.
Ensure training and development of personnel through on-the-job-training and
external and institutional courses as offered by RTMC and other recognized
institutions. Manage staff grievances and/or refer to Labour Relations for
further handling. Apply and execute disciplinary processes in accordance with
applicable procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Elvis Mpateni/ Ms. Keorapetse Gumata Tel No: (011) 355 -7521/9000
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with disabilities, Coloured Males, Indian Males, White Males,
Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Females candidates.
POST 24/163 : SENIOR EXAMINER: VEHICLE TESTING STATION AND DRIVER’S
LICENSING TESTING REF NO: REFS/050296 (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Transport
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Kagiso, Temba, Maponya
130
REQUIRMENTS : NQF level 6/7 qualification in Public Administration/Public Management/BA
Licensing/ Transport Management. Qualified and registered as NaTIS user/an
Examiner of Vehicles and Driving license are equivalent to or above the grading
of the center. 3 – 5 years’ relevant (NaTIS) National Traffic Information System
experience within a Driver License Testing/Motor Vehicle Registration/Vehicle
Testing Centre. 2 years’ experience must be at supervisory level. Valid Drivers’
License. Knowledge and Skills: GPG and GPDRT policies and procedures,
Relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations, Understanding of
expectations of customers, Knowledge of SLAs, Management information
knowledge, Knowledge of GPG political and executive structures. Decisive,
Team-worker, Customer focused, Proactive and resourceful, Flexible/change
oriented, Cost conscious, Quality oriented, Responsive, Innovative, Credible,
User-friendly telephone voice, Problem solving ability.
DUTIES : Ensure that examiners for motor vehicle testing are assigned to perform
various duties in line with the requirements of the legislation and pertaining to
testing of applicants. Ensure that motor vehicle testing is conducted in
accordance with the (NRTA) National Road Traffic Road Act. Ensure that
regular spot-checks, quality assurance, supervision and that monitoring is
conducted and that a monitoring control system is administered. Performs
quality assurance in respect of applications of roadworthiness and to ensure
authorization of roadworthy certificates. Ensure consistently that all testing
equipment is timeously calibrated and in good working order. Provide support
through ensuring that banking, South African Bureau of Standard (SABS) and
maintenance findings are adhered to in the Vehicle Testing Stations (VTS’s).
Ensure that queue management system is utilized optimally at the Centre.
Ensure that malpractice or any violation is reported to the inspectorate. Co-
operate with Law enforcement agencies on matters under investigation.
Ensure there is enough resources for revenue management and recording.
Ensure that monies are banked through E-Receipting. Ensure that South
African Bureau of Standard (SABS) fee it’s paid quarterly. Coordination of
deployment of security personnel for government property, clients and staff
protection. Liaise with Facilities Directorate as and when maintenance is due,
regularly follow up as to when issues are resolved. Ensure good upkeep of the
building and grounds. Establish a Document management system. Verify that
completeness of (VTS) Vehicle Testing Station documentation is maintained
and filed accordingly. Ensure that regular inspections/ quality assurance is
conducted, and compliance is maintained. Ensure that all South African
National Standards (SANS) documents are available and updated regularly.
Provide support through ensuring the enforcement of control measures against
fraud and corruption in the Vehicle Testing Station (VTS). Monitor the
operations of the Vehicle Testing Station (VTS) and ensure compliance to
Directorate Standard Operating Procedures (SOP’s) and the National Road
Traffic Act (NRTA). Monitor, identify and act on submitted fraudulent
documentation. Conducting regular awareness sessions on anti-fraud and
corruption activities. Implement all internal controls and risk management
recommendations. Report all cases of fraud and corruption to the Department’s
Anti-Corruption Hotline as well as to compliance and the Directorate: Risk
Management. Manage the Vehicle Testing Station (VTS) to meet required
expectations. Review of monthly reconciliations and unit reports. Oversee and
authorize National Administration Traffic Information System (NaTIS)
transactions. Coordinate and liaise with relevant Directorate’s on job specific
and transversal trainings to improve service delivery, e.g., NaTIS, customer
relationship improvement and other administrative courses. Implement
systems to manage risks. Ensure compliance to Public Finance Management
Act and Treasury regulations. Ensure there is sufficient capacity to meet
delivery service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Elvis Mpateni/ Ms. Keorapetse Gumata Tel No: (011) 355 -7521/9000
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with disabilities, Coloured Males, Indian Males, White Males,
Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Females candidates
POST 24/164 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONITORING REF NO: REFS/050289 (X2
POSTS)
Branch: Transport
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Ekurhuleni Regional Office, West Rand Regional Office
131
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma or Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Transport Management/
Transport Logistics/ Public Administration. 3-5 years’ working work experience
is Public Transport Field/Environment. 2 years’ experience must be at
supervisory level. Knowledge and Skills: Ability and willingness to work under
pressure. Problem solver, report writing. Ability to work in a team. Efficient
collaborator. Corporate governance knowledge will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Facilitate and monitor the registration of routes for land base public transport
operation in the region. Support the mediation of conflict and disputes.
Convene and participate in the meeting with those stakeholders to discuss the
route application and inspection findings from the Association or an Operator.
Compile a submission with recommendations to the management that the
route can be captured on the Registration Administration System (RAS).
Ensure that route is captured on Registration Administration System (RAS), as
per approved recommendations. Provide feedback accordingly. Assist
associations in development own constitutions, guided the Standard Minimum
Constitution. Liaise with the Association and operators to make applications for
amendment of their operating license Monitor the process of Democratization
of associations and other land base public transport operations. Participate in
the development, review and implementation of policies and standard
operating procedures. Track performance progress and workflow of the team.
Manage resources (Human, Equipment/Asset).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Elvis Mpateni/ Ms. Keorapetse Gumata Tel No: (011) 355 -7521/9000
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with disabilities Coloured Males, Indian Males, White Males,
Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Females candidates.
POST 24/165 : EXAMINER: VEHICLE TESTING STATION AND DRIVER’S LICENSING
TESTING REF NO: REFS/050297 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Transport
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Mabopane, Temba
REQUIRMENTS : NQF level 6/7 qualification in Public Administration/Public Management/BA
Licensing/ Transport Management. Qualified and registered as an Examiner of
Vehicles and Drivers Licenses equivalent or above the grading of the center. 2
- 3 years’ relevant Examiner experience. Valid Drivers’ License. Knowledge
and Skills: GPG and GPDRT policies and procedures, Relevant legislation and
Public Service Regulations, Understanding of expectations of customers,
Knowledge of SLAs, Management information knowledge, Knowledge of GPG
political and executive structures. Decisive, Team-worker, Customer focused,
Proactive and resourceful, Flexible/change oriented, Cost conscious, Quality
oriented, Responsive, Innovative, Credible, User-friendly telephone voice,
Problem solving ability.
DUTIES : Receive and verify applications for vehicle testing. Verify correctness and
relevance of information supplied on the Application of Road Worthiness
Certification (ARC) form (Application for vehicle testing), and other application
documentation (vehicle’s registration certificate). Check that the bookings are
confirmed by NaTIS (National Traffic Information System) and through frontline
services. Inspect and test the vehicle. Check chassis number/engine, that it is
not tampered with or stolen. Furnish the applicant with a copy of the test report
after the test is completed. Capture authorized test results on National Traffic
Information System (NaTIS). Check that the authentic driver license card is
issued in compliance with National Road Traffic Act. Verify that Professional
Driver Permit (PrPD) applications and issuance are complying. Ensure
execution of duties by Junio Examiners in compliance to National Road Traffic
Act (NRTA) and South African National Standard (SANS). Response to queries
from members of the public on NRTA related issues. Ensure an efficient and
orderly system for the arrangement of appointments to meet customer
expectations. Preparation of a verifiable National Traffic Information System
(NaTIS) data eg. Financial reports, testing reports and others. Check and
ensure that the authorized test results are captured on National Traffic
Information System (NaTIS). Print results and authorize issuance of
roadworthy certificate for tested motor vehicles. Ensure correctness and
relevance of information supplied on form ACR (Application for certification of
roadworthiness) Explain applicable procedure to applicants. Ensure that the
bookings are confirmed by NaTIS (National Administration Traffic Information
System) and through frontline services. Verify identity of applicants through
132
checking their Identity documents and other relevant documentation. Regular
reporting on issues around achievements and compliance. Implement
systems, processes, and controls to prevent fraud and corruption. Engage in
anti-corruption and curb unlawful behaviour and activities through identifying
and reporting such activities. Manage Junior Examiners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Elvis Mpateni/ Ms. Keorapetse Gumata Tel No: (011) 355 -7521/9000
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with disabilities, Coloured Males, Indian Males, White Males,
Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Females candidates.
POST 24/166 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PROCESSING SERVICES REF NO:
REFS/050298
Branch: Transport
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Ekurhuleni
REQUIRMENTS : NQF level 6/7 in Public Management/ Public Administration/ Transport
Management. 2-3 years’ experience in the Public Transport environment.
Knowledge and skills: GPDRT policies and procedures; relevant legislation
which include the NLTA, the NLTA Amendment Act and Public Service
Regulations. Finance and HR matters. Planning and organising. Computer
literacy. Good interpersonal skills. Problem solving and decision-making skills.
Sound communication skills, oral and written. Planning and good organising
skills. Pro-active and can work independently and as a team. Customer
focused, good telephone etiquette and problem-solving ability.
DUTIES : Receive applications from the cashier counter. Verify all applications received
against list and sign off the list applications. Verify that all applications to admin
clerks for processing. Confirm that applications are registered. Identify
applications with issues and resolve the issues. Confirm that applications
received and processed are recorded electronically on a weekly basis for
record keeping and auditing purposes. Verify that information on applications
and supporting documents are complete and captured accurately. Confirm that
applications are prepared for Government gazette publication. Verify that
applications are advertised internally and externally as required by the NLTA
no.5 of 2009. Get quotation from Government Printing Works by filling in Z95
form. Check that the requested quotes and invoices are received for
applications in the Government Printing Works. Retrieve information to be
Gazetted from Operating License Administration (OLAS). Confirmation of the
budget for the gazette and submit the gazette to Government Printing Works.
Check whether the publication is complete correctly. Facilitate the preparation
of applications for consideration by the Provincial Regulatory Entity. Coordinate
with municipalities on concurrencies and advise applicants on outcomes.
Facilitate Human Resource Development of employees. Supervise staff and
leave administration. Provide coaching, disciplinary and mentoring of staff to
improve performance. Enhance and maintain employee motivation. Assign
tasks and monitor performance of employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Elvis Mpateni/ Ms. Keorapetse Gumata Tel No: (011) 355 -7521/9000
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with disabilities, Coloured Males, Indian Males, White Males,
Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Females candidates.
POST 24/167 : DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR: ICT GOVERNANCE AND INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/050272
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6)/ Degree (NQF Level 7) in ICT (Computer
Science / Informatics) / Business Information Management / Information
Technology. Database Administrator Certificate as an added advantage. 2-3
years’ experience in ICT database environment. Knowledge of change
management, project management, and information management. Knowledge
of relevant legislation, Public Service Regulations, and Service Level
Agreements (SLAs). Knowledge of the Minimum Information Security
Standards. Strong skills in planning and organising, customer management
and quality management. Ability to promote innovation and continuous
133
improvement. Well-developed problem-solving skills, analytical thinking, and
communication skills and diversity Awareness.
DUTIES : Design and develop database Develop scripting and optimize performance
Maintain Databases using Microsoft Structured Query Language (SQL) 2016
and latest versions of Microsoft SQL Manage workload and ensure high
availability; disaster recovery Develop and maintain data documentation
Provide ICT technical support Prepare design specifications. Design and
create database systems based on business requirements. Develop database
schemas, tables and data dictionaries. Gather and analyses requests
pertaining to layout and special features of a database. Solve database usage
issues and malfunctions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 -7521) Ms. P. Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 –
7175
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with disabilities, Coloured Males, Indian Males, White Males
Persons with Disabilities candidates.
POST 24/168 : COMMUNICATION OFFICER: INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS REF NO:
REFS/050275
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefit)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma/bachelor’s degree NQF Level 6/7 in Communication and
Marketing qualification or relevant. 1-2 years' experience in content
development for print and electronic medium. Knowledge and skills GPG and
GPDRT policies and procedures, Relevant legislation and Public Service
Regulations Understanding of expectations of customers, Knowledge of SLAs,
Management information knowledge of GPG political and executive structures.
Change management Planning and organising Strategy, Policy development
Project Management People oriented Financial Management.
DUTIES : Writing, editing, proof reading and content sourcing. Newsletter development
and management. Website and intranet management, Assist in effective
management of resources. Assist in securing suppliers for communication-
related services. Coordinate and monitor websites, intranet and social media
content, visual appearance and functionality by ensuring continuous updating
Attend to and facilitate speedy responses to external client queries coming
through Department's website Render administration support to the Directorate
Distribute print material to internal and external stakeholders Compile weekly,
monthly and quarterly reports Liaise with suppliers and ensure that service
level agreements are developed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 -7521)/ Ms. P. Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 –
7175
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with disabilities, Coloured Males, Indian Males, White Males
Persons with Disabilities candidates.
POST 24/169 : ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO:
REFS/050273
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefit)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : NQF 6/7 National Diploma or Degree in Management Services/Production
Management/ Operations Management.1-2 years' experience in the
Organisational Development field. Knowledge and skills Planning and
organising People Oriented Change management, Strategic thinking,
Customer management Innovation/ continuous improvement Problem solving,
Analytical Communication Initiative Diversity awareness. Understanding of
relevant legislation: (PSR, PSA, CORE) Relevant human resource legislation
in the public service DPSA Organisational Development directives, circulars,
policies, guides. Organizational development. Initiatives Knowledge of DPSA
regulations and Ministerial Handbook. PERSAL Staff establishment certificate
will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Schedule organizational structure consultation sessions with business units.
Assist with coordinating, reviewing, redesigning and implementing the
organizational structure and post establishment information. Facilitate the
134
process of work study investigations. Facilitate Organizational Functionality
Assessment (OFA). Facilitate the development of business processes and
standard operating procedures. Facilitate the creation and abolishment of
posts. Submit mandates on the post establishment changes for implementation
on PERSAL. Identify and prioritize posts to be evaluated. Facilitate
departmental JE projects and liaise with OOP (project plans, submissions etc.).
Coordinate and facilitate all job evaluation activities (interviews, completion of
PIQs, evaluation system etc.). Benchmark jobs with other organisations.
Manage JE database and related records. Prepare submissions on JE panel
recommendations. Ensure all approved JE recommendations are implemented
on the PERSAL system. Provide job description template and advise line
managers on contents of the job description template. Assist business units
with the review and development of job descriptions. Update and maintain the
job description database. Provide Job descriptions to stakeholders for
advertising, performance contracting, evaluation of posts and generic queries
on posts. Align departmental job descriptions of coordinated posts to the DPSA
coordinated jobs. Provide departmental monthly headcount from post
establishment information. Provide post establishment data which includes
Vacancy rate, filled and vacant posts, post details. Compile presentations and
reports related to post establishment data. Provide 3.3.4s post information.
Keep up to date with compliance and regulatory requirements. Implement all
organizational design circulars, policy and other communications that impact
on the operation of the business unit. Implement governance processes,
frameworks and procedures. Update and maintain job evaluation and job
description database. Maintain records management system. Retrieve
documents as and when requested. Ensure OD submissions are filed correctly
(approved documents and submissions). Route and follow up on submissions.
Capture minutes during meetings when required. Ensure unit has stationery.
Organize workshops and meetings. Perform procurement duties. Ensure all
functions related to OD GG vehicle are performed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 -7521)/ Ms. P. Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 -
7175
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with disabilities, Coloured Males, Indian Males, White Males
Persons with Disabilities candidates.
POST 24/170 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ISSUING AND COLLECTIONS COUNTER
REF NO: REFS/050299
Branch: Transport
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIRMENTS : NQF level 6/7 in Public Management / Public Administration/Administration
Management/ Transport Management. 1-2 years’ experience in the Public
Transport management environment. Knowledge and skills: GPDRT policies
and procedures; relevant legislation which include the NLTA, the NLTA
Amendment Act and Public Service Regulations, understanding of
expectations of customers, knowledge of SLAs. Knowledge of GPG political
and executive structures. Customer management, Innovation / continuous
improvement, problem solving, analytical, negotiation, communication,
initiative and diversity awareness.
DUTIES : Account for all applications received from processing and cashier streams.
Verify if all documents are attached to the file. Verify and ensure that
applications forms are properly filled. Verify applicants’ data on the vehicle
documents and validity. Tracking of processed applications. Print Operating
Licenses. Account for the verification of applicant details and validate printed
operating licenses. Permits. log calls with NLTIS (National Land Transport
Information System) for both Minibus Taxi and Non-Minibus Taxi applications
for reduction or increasing capacity on the applications prior to issuing. Check
and verify applications and submit them to the Senior Admin Officer before
being signed off to the Provincial Regulatory Entity for signature of the
Operating Licensing. Record operating licenses to be distributed to
applications for collections. Provide feedback to applicants for collections.
Provide feedback to applicants on processed applications through the SMS
system. Consolidate the monthly portfolio of evidence (POE) that is signed
copies of permits/ operating licenses. Account for the hand-over of issued
operating licenses and documents received for collection. Account for the
135
verification of details by checking Proxy letters or ID copies of each person
collecting and proper record keeping of collected operating licenses. Distribute
Face Value documents to issues and conduct to issues and conduct stock
taking. Manage Human Resources and compile relevant reports for the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Elvis Mpateni/ Ms. Keorapetse Gumata Tel No: (011) 355 -7521/9000
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with disabilities, Coloured Males, Indian Males, White Maels,
Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Females candidates.
POST 24/171 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: MONITORING REF NO: REFS/050290 (X3
POSTS)
Branch: Transport
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg Regional Office, Sedibeng Regional Office, West Rand
Regional Office
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6)/Degree (NQF Level 7) in Transport
Management/ Transport Logistics/ Public Administration. 1 — 2 years working
experience in Public Transport Field/Environment. Valid Driver's license.
Knowledge and Skills: Ability and willingness to work under pressure, time
management. Ability to execute instruction, team worker, adaptable to change.
Good communication skills will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Perform physical inspection of all routes for all land base public transport
operations in the region. Document the observation. Record election and AGM
preceding. Keep record safely. Assist with provision of administration support
in mediation of conflict and resolving disputes. Renders administrative support
services. Participate in the development and review of relevant policies and
regulations of the unit. Preparation of meetings with Associations and
Stakeholders (Departmental meetings or meetings outside the Department.
Provide support in conducting an inspection-in-loco with stakeholders:
Planning Authorities, South African National Taxi Council (SANTACO),
Gauteng National Taxi Alliance (GNTA), Metered Taxi Council, Learner
Transport Council, upon receipt of route application from the Association or an
Operator.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Mpateni/ Ms. K. Gumata Tel No: (011) 355-7521/9043
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with disabilities, Coloured Males, Indian Males, White Males,
Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Females candidates.
POST 24/172 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: PLANT HIRE REFS NO: REFS/050263
Branch: Roads Infrastructure
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Koedoespoort (Tshwane)
REQUIRMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or NQF level 4 equivalent qualification. No experience
required. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy, Planning and
organization, good verbal and written communication skills, Job Knowledge,
Teamwork, Ability to work under pressure. Report writing.
DUTIES : To provide general administration duties - typing, scanning, emailing, filing and
recording keeping, etc. Licenses renewal administration. Traffic fines and
infringements re-routing. Vehicle accidents reporting and administration. Assist
with other administrative duties assigned by the superior. Basic secretariat
functions as and when needed. Management of attendance register. Provide
Administration support with regards to Performance Assessments during
review and contracting period. Provide administration support on HR related
functions as and when needed.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Mashele/ Mr. S. Ngcobo Tel No: (011) 355-7082/7043
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with disabilities, Coloured Females, Indian Females, White
Females, Persons with disabilities candidates.
POST 24/173 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: REFS/050276
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02), (plus benefit)
CENTRE : Zwartkop Academy
136
REQUIRMENTS : AET or equivalent qualification. Good communication skills (Verbal and
written). An ability to work under pressure and ability to work in a team.
Knowledge of work procedures in respect of working environment skills. Basic
numeracy and good communication skills.
DUTIES : Maintain premises and surroundings: clean premises by providing gardening
services of routine nature, watering the garden, prune and trim flowers and
trees, mow the grass, remove weeds, and garden refuse, apply insecticides.
Cultivate the soil for trees and flowers, monitor and keep gardening equipment
and tools in good condition. Detect and report malfunctioning of gardening
equipment and tools. Repair minor defects of gardening equipment and tools.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 -7521)/ Ms. P. Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 –
7175
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with disabilities, Coloured Males, Indian Males, White Males
Persons with Disabilities candidates.
137
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, TOURISM AND ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the KZN online e-
Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and
CV directly to the following email address: kznjobs@kznedtea.gov.za
Applications may alternatively be forwarded to the Department of Economic
Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Private Bag X9152,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200, OR hand delivered to the Ground Floor, 270 Jabu
Ndlovu Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3201, in the vacancy box provided for the
attention of Ms Nondumiso Buthelezi / Mr Sipho Zangwa.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 (at 16h00)
NOTE : All attachments for Email applications must include an application form Z83
and CV only combined in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment,
indicating the correct job title and the reference number of the post on the
subject line of your email. Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated
Online Application Centres (DOACS), where our friendly staff will assist you
with applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the
Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) list at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” Please note that applicants should only use
one of the following methods when applying for a post: Either through the
online e-recruitment system, emailing the Z83 and CV directly to the relevant
department, or submitting a hard-copy application as directed. Candidates are
discouraged from sending their applications through registered mail, as the
Department will not take responsibility for the non-collection of those
applications. The appointment is subject to a positive outcome from the State
Security Agency and to the following checks (security clearance, qualifications,
citizenship, and previous employment verifications). The Department will
conduct reference checks with the HR of the current and/or previous
employer(s) apart from the referees listed. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the
technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will
undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities,
behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical
Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises
as an additional criterion in the interview process. Before the appointment for
SMS positions, the appointee will be required to produce a Pre-entry certificate
for the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, a public service-specific
training program applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS. The
course is offered by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry, and the full details
can be obtained by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/smspre-entryprogramme.
Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the Department is not in a position
to cover any travel and subsistence costs associated with recruitment
processes.). Applications received after the closing date and time will not be
considered. To applicants: The Provincial Administration of KwaZulu-Natal is
an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, and women and people with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. The Department of Economic
Development, Tourism, and Environmental Affairs is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer, and preference will be given to suitably qualified
candidates from designated groups in terms of the Employment Equity Act,
1998. The Department reserves the right not to make these appointments. All
information submitted will be treated as confidential. The Department reserves
the right to withhold the filling of the abovementioned posts at any time before
an appointment. All applications must be submitted on the new Application for
Employment form (Z83), which became effective from the 1st of January 2021,
obtainable from any Public Service Department or can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. The form must be completed in full, and the
application form should be initiated, signed, and dated. All required information
on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all information
will automatically disqualify the applicant. The completed and signed Z83 must
be accompanied by an updated, detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV). Dates of
138
starting and leaving employment must be given as DD/MM/YYYY. Shortlisted
candidates must submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview, following communication from Human Resources. Should an
applicant have a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications submitted electronically
will be taken as a final application and may not be amended or supplemented
in any way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to undergo a competency test/technical
exercise.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/174 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL REF NO:
DD- AMD 01/JULY 2026
Business Unit: Financial Management Services
SALARY : R932 292 - R 1 098 195 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year National Diploma in Supply Chain Management,
Financial Management, Financial Accounting, Asset Management, or Cost and
Management Accounting, at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. A minimum
of 3 years’ junior management experience in a Supply Chain Management,
Financial Management, Asset Management, Financial Accounting, or Inventory
Control environment. A valid driver’s license. Skills, Training And
Competencies: The successful candidate must have an in-depth knowledge of
Supply Chain Management policies and procedures, Asset management,
inventory control, reconciliation and disposal processes, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and its Regulations, Treasury Regulations and
relevant Treasury Practice Notes, SCM delegations, disposal processes and
SCM Practice Notes, Hardcat System and BAS, Supply Chain Management
systems, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Public
Service Regulations, Public Service Act, Human Resource practices, Labour
Relations Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Skills Development Act and Service Delivery Frameworks.
Skills such as People management skills Communication skills (verbal and
written), presentation skills, report writing, Language skills, Listening skills,
Presentation skills, Interpersonal relations, Computer skills, Strategic Planning
skills, Organisational skills, Research skills, Analytical skills, Leadership skills,
Financial Management Skills, Time Management, Report Writing skills,
Problem Solving skills, Conflict Management skills, Change Management
skills, Project Management skills, Planning and Organizing skills, facilitation
skills, and decision-making skills. Attributes such as integrity, respect, honesty,
teamwork, vision, transparency, commitment, and confidentiality.
DUTIES : Manage the Physical Asset Management; Ensure efficient and effective Asset
and Inventory Control and Systems Management; Manage Asset Planning,
Reporting and Compliance; Develop and implement policies, strategies,
frameworks and plans; Manage the resources of the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. K Mthethwa at 064 7579122
NOTE : NB: All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the department, which are African Male, Coloured Male, Indian
Male, And People with Disabilities who meet the requirements are encouraged
to apply.
POST 24/175 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: PROVISIONING REF NO: SCM
CLERK REF NO: PROV 02/JULY 2026
Business: Unit: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must possess an appropriate Grade 12/Matric Senior
Certificate in Accounting, Mathematics, and English, coupled with a basic
understanding of the SCM environment. Skills, Training, And Competencies:
The successful candidate must have a good working knowledge of Public
139
Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations; Knowledge of The Broad-
Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, The Relevant Practice Note,
Project Management; Supply Chain Management framework and Principles;
Batho Pele principles; Code of Conduct for SCM Practitioners; Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa; Departmental procurement procedures; Public
Service Act, and Relevant SCM Instruction Notes. Skills: Computer literacy
Skills; Interpersonal Relations skills; Time Management skills; Organizing &
Planning skills; Language Proficiency, listening skills, Communication skills
(verbal and written), Presentation skills, Analytical skills, Report writing, Time
Management skills, problem-solving skills, Negotiation skills, Research skills,
Conflict management skills, Driving skills. Attributes: Teamwork, Honesty,
Responsibility, Reliability, Accuracy, Correctness, Initiative, Innovative thinker,
and Quality of Work.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be required to: Provide clerical support to SCM
provisioning; Provide clerical support on evaluation of quotations and
preparation of recommendations of awards; Adhere to acquisition policies and
procedures; and provide clerical assistance in preparing the monthly report for
provisioning activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Ntsepiseng Molefe at 060 564 1286
NOTE : NB: All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the Department. People With Disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
POST 24/176 : DRIVER/MESSENGER: FLEET MANAGEMENT REF NO: D/M-FLT MNGT
03 / JULY 2026
Business Unit: Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must have Grade 12 plus a Code B driver’s license – light motor
vehicles. Applicants must have a minimum of 1 year of driving experience. PDP
will be an added advantage. Skills, Training, And Competencies: The
successful candidate must have: Knowledge of sorting and distribution
procedures; Knowledge and understanding of the Regulatory Framework for
Public Service, e.g., Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations; Working
knowledge of the Departmental Policies and Circulars, Public Service
functioning; Motor vehicles; Self-motivated and the ability to work
independently towards predetermined deadlines. Skills: Communication
(verbal and written) Good interpersonal relations, Record maintenance,
Technical skills and Driving skills. Attributes: Reliability, Dependable, Initiative,
Punctual, Honesty and integrity, Commitment.
DUTIES : Drive Light and medium motor vehicles to transport passengers and other
items (mail, documents, and assets transferred); Conduct routine maintenance
on the allocated vehicles and report defects in time; Complete all the required
and prescribed records and log books with regard to the vehicle and goods
handled; Render messenger services in the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T Ngwenya at 071 226 4412
NOTE : NB: All the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the Department. People With Disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/177 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADES 1 – 3 REF NO: PMMH 01/2026 (X1 POST)
Component: Orthopaedic
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 – R1 479 723 per annum, (all-inclusive packages)
Grade 2: R1 592 274 – R1 688 553 per annum, (all-inclusive packages)
Grade 3: R1 844 151 – R2 301 186 per annum, (all-inclusive packages)
consist of 70% basic salary and 30% flexible portion that may be structured in
terms of applicable rules. Other Benefits: In-Hospitable Area Allowance (18%
of basic salary), Commuted overtime (conditions apply) / the incumbent in the
post would be required to enter into a performance contract for commuted
overtime.
CENTRE : Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital
140
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate or Equivalent. MBCHB degree or equivalent qualification plus
appropriate qualification that allows for registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in a normal specialty (Orthopaedic).
Certificate of registration with Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic. Current (2026) registration
as a Medical Specialist with HPCSA. Grade 1: No experience required.
Registrars who have completed their training may also apply on condition that
their appointment will be subject to them submitting documentary evidence of
registration with the Health Professions of South Africa. Grade 2: Further to the
minimum requirements mentioned herein, the appointment to Grade 2 requires
5 years’ appropriate experience after registration with HPCSA as Medical
Specialist in Orthopaedic. Grade 3: Further to the minimum requirements
mentioned herein, the appointment to Grade 3 requires 10 years’ appropriate
experience after registration with HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Orthopaedic.
Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies Required: Sound knowledge
and experience in the Orthopaedics. Knowledge of current health and public
service legislation, regulations and policies including medical ethics,
epidemiology and statistics. Good Communication, leadership, decision-
making and clinical skills. Ability to teach junior doctors and participate in
continuing professional development Comprehensive knowledge of speciality
Discipline.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in clinical and customer care (patient
perspective) in the respective specialty. Provide a full package of services
including after hour services. Develop, maintain and audit the correct
implementation of clinical protocols and guidelines Implement and maintain an
efficient, effective and seamless service delivery process within the Institution
and referring facilities. Plan and provide continuous medical education to
multidisciplinary team members, conduct and stimulate research. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide Specialist services and
support to the Clinical Head of Unit. Ensure Compliance with Norms and
Standards as prescribed by Office of Health Standards Compliance (OHSC).
Participate in the continued medical education programme in the institution.
Manage EPMDS of junior staff. Participate in the extended management
activities. Develop, Implement and monitor quality improvement programmes.
Develop and participate in the outreach programme. Ensure a functional
referral system. Actively participate in the academic programme run by the
Department of Health for the postgraduate training of Registrars. Clinical
teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students. Engage in academic
research culminating in the publication of papers in scientific journals or the
presentation of the results of such research at scientific congresses.
Competence in the clinical evaluation of patients, Interpretation of special
investigations within the Discipline. Render efficient and cost-effective services
to patients managed by the institution. Ensure Clinical Governance within the
Discipline. Deliver an effective and efficient administration of all resources
allocated to the Discipline. Assist the Head of Clinical Unit (HCU) to ensure an
optimal delivery of Services within the Discipline. Assist HCU in the
development of management protocols/policies for Department – Discipline.
Assist with Quality Improvement imperatives including Clinical Audits
(morbidity and mortality reporting and reviewing, clinical documentation audits
etc.) and continuous professional development activities. Maintain satisfactory
clinical professional and ethical standards in the department Engage in
research and supervise registrar research. Partake in outreach programmes of
the DOH. After hours participation in call roasters.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R MAgagulatel Tel No: (031) 907 8319
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be forwarded to: The Human Resource Manager OR Hand
deliver to A-Block 1st Floor white applications box. Prince Mshiyeni Memorial
Hospital Private Bag X07, Mobeni, 4060. For Attention: Mr. M.F Mlambo.
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications may alternatively be
emailed to: PrincemshiyeniHospital.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za for
Nursing Posts and: Mxolisi.Mlambo@kznhealth.gov.za for Medical Post
quoting reference number only in the subject line. Emailed applications should
please be sent as one attachment.
NOTE : Directions To Candidates: The applicant must submit a fully completed Z83
form and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) Only. Only shortlisted candidates
141
will be required to submit proof of all documents and Certificate of Service
endorsed by Human Resources The official Z83 form ‘Application for
employment’ (the new amended version of the Z83 form effectively from
01/01/2021 must be used only; the old Z83 form will be rejected, if used). The
amended Z83 application for employment form is obtainable at any
Government Department OR downloaded from the website –
www.kznhealth.qov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za-vacansies. The ‘Reference
Number’ and ‘Position’ for which are applying (as stated in the advert) must be
clearly indicated in the columns provided on the form Z 83 e.g. Reference
number PMMH 01/2026.Applications may also be submitted via the KZN e-
Recruitment System, accessible at: www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs The system
allows applicants to: a) View advertised posts b) Register using a valid email
address and mobile number c) Complete and update personal profiles aligned
to the Z83 d) Upload CVs and supporting documents (ID, qualifications, etc.)
The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of Educational
Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
The successful candidate would be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment. Please note that due to the high number
of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
consider your application as unsuccessful, please. Persons with disabilities
from all designated race groups are encouraged to apply for the post. Please
note that no S&T payments will be considered for payment to candidates who
are invited for interviews. It is the shortlisted candidate’s responsibility to have
a foreign qualification, which is a requirement of the post, evaluated by the
South Africans Qualifications authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such
evaluation on application. Failure to comply will result in the application not
being considered The Department reserves the right not to fill the post/s.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will disqualify applicants. (This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is
to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department.)
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
POST 24/178 : ASSISTANT NURSING MANAGER (SPECIALTY STREAM) REF NO: PMMH
02/2026 (X1 POST)
Component: Obstetrics & Gynaecology (O&G)
SALARY : R785 568 – R884 940 per annum. Other Benefits: Home Owner Allowance
(conditions apply), 13th Cheque (conditions apply) Medical Aid (Optional) In-
hospital Area Allowance (8% of basic salary)
CENTRE : Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing and
Midwifery) that allows registration with the ‘South African Nursing Council’
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post basic qualification in Obstetrics and
Gynaecology or Advanced Midwifery with duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC Certificates of Registration with the SANC (General Nursing
and Midwifery) Current registration with the SANC (2026) A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. At least 6 years of the
above experience must be appropriate/recognizable experience in Obstetrics
and Gynaecology services after obtaining the relevant post-basic qualification.
At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be at a management level.
Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies Required: In-depth knowledge
of nursing care processes, nursing statutes, and relevant legal frameworks
including the Nursing Act, National Health Act, Occupational Health and Safety
Act, Patients' Rights Charter, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service
Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Disciplinary Code and Grievance
Procedures. Sound knowledge of Maternal, Neonatal and Women's Health
policies, guidelines, and quality assurance systems. Leadership,
organizational, decision-making and problem-solving skills. Interpersonal,
communication, negotiation, conflict management and counselling skills.
Financial and budgetary management skills pertaining to resources under
142
management. Knowledge of Human Resource Management and Labour
Relations policies and procedures. Computer literacy in Microsoft Office
applications. Ability to coordinate, supervise and monitor nursing services
within the O&G component.
DUTIES : Coordinate Optimal, Holistic Specialized Nursing Care Within a Professional
and Legal Framework Plan, organize and monitor the objectives of the
Obstetrics and Gynaecology Unit in consultation with subordinates. Provide a
therapeutic environment for staff, patients and the public. Ensure the provision
of comprehensive, quality nursing care in accordance with identified patient
needs and professional standards. Delegate duties and support staff in the
execution of patient care delivery. Provide direct and indirect supervision of
nursing and support personnel. Ensure continuity of patient care through
effective handovers, ward rounds and maintenance of records. Liaise and
communicate effectively with the multidisciplinary team and other departments
within the hospital. Monitor compliance with clinical governance, patient safety
and infection prevention and control standards. Manage Effectively the
Utilization and Supervision of Resources Human Resources Coordinate staff
allocation, duty rosters, leave schedules and shift management. Ensure
adequate staffing levels to meet service delivery requirements. Monitor staff
attendance, performance and conduct. Conduct performance reviews and
support staff development. Implement labour relations policies, disciplinary
procedures and grievance processes. Promote employee wellness and
support programmes. Financial and Material Resources Monitor utilization of
financial resources and promote cost-effective service delivery. Manage
procurement and stock control of consumables and equipment. Ensure
availability and maintenance of functional equipment. Participate in budget
planning and provide input on resource requirements. Ensure proper control of
medicines, including schedule drugs and ward stock. Monitor emergency
trolley checks and equipment maintenance. Support Services Monitor
cleaning, laundry, waste management and other support services within the
unit. Ensure effective record keeping and communication systems. Coordinate
the Provision of Effective Training and Research Facilitate orientation,
induction and mentoring of newly appointed staff. Coordinate in-service training
and continuous professional development activities. Support nursing education
and clinical accompaniment of students. Identify training needs and promote
learning opportunities for all categories of staff. Participate in evidence-based
nursing practice and research activities. Maintain accurate training records and
reports. Provide Effective Support to Nursing Services Assist with relief duties
for Operational Managers and Nursing Managers when required. Participate in
management meetings and quality improvement initiatives. Support
implementation of strategic and operational plans within the O&G component.
Promote teamwork and multidisciplinary collaboration. Maintain Professional
Growth, Ethical Standards and Self-Development Uphold the Code of Conduct
for the Public Service and South African Nursing Council. Maintain professional
registration and competencies. Participate in continuous professional
development activities. Promote Batho Pele principles and patient-centred
care.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R.M Abboo Tel No: (031) 907 8518
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be forwarded to: The Human Resource Manager OR Hand
deliver to A-Block 1st Floor white applications box. Prince Mshiyeni Memorial
Hospital Private Bag X07, Mobeni, 4060. For Attention: Mr. M.F Mlambo.
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications may alternatively be
emailed to: PrincemshiyeniHospital.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za for
Nursing Posts and: Mxolisi.Mlambo@kznhealth.gov.za for Medical Post
quoting reference number only in the subject line. Emailed applications should
please be sent as one attachment.
NOTE : Directions To Candidates: The applicant must submit a fully completed Z83
form and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) ONLY. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit proof of all documents and Certificate of Service
endorsed by Human Resources The official Z83 form ‘Application for
employment’ (the new amended version of the Z83 form effectively from
01/01/2021 must be used only; the old Z83 form will be rejected, if used). The
amended Z83 application for employment form is obtainable at any
Government Department OR downloaded from the website –
www.kznhealth.qov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za-vacansies. The ‘Reference
Number’ and ‘Position’ for which are applying (as stated in the advert) must be
143
clearly indicated in the columns provided on the form Z 83 e.g. Reference
number PMMH 01/2026.Applications may also be submitted via the KZN e-
Recruitment System, accessible at: www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs The system
allows applicants to: a) View advertised posts b) Register using a valid email
address and mobile number c) Complete and update personal profiles aligned
to the Z83 d) Upload CVs and supporting documents (ID, qualifications, etc.)
The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of Educational
Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
The successful candidate would be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment. Please note that due to the high number
of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
consider your application as unsuccessful, please. Persons with disabilities
from all designated race groups are encouraged to apply for the post. Please
note that no S&T payments will be considered for payment to candidates who
are invited for interviews. It is the shortlisted candidate’s responsibility to have
a foreign qualification, which is a requirement of the post, evaluated by the
South Africans Qualifications authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such
evaluation on application. Failure to comply will result in the application not
being considered The Department reserves the right not to fill the post/s.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will disqualify applicants. (This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is
to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department.)
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
POST 24/179 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY STREAM) REF NO:
PMMH 03/2026 (X1 POST)
Component: Orthopaedics
SALARY : R720 819 – R809 313 per annum. Other Benefits: Home Owner Allowance
(conditions apply), 13th Cheque (conditions apply) Medical Aid (Optional) In-
hospital Area Allowance (8% of basic salary)
CENTRE : Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Professional Nurse Grade.1 Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/ Degree in
General Nursing) that allows registration with the ‘South African Nursing
Council’ (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post basic qualification in
Orthopaedic nursing science, with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with
the SANC Certificates of Registration with the SANC (General Nursing) Current
registration with the SANC (2026) A minimum of nine (9) years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. At least five (5) years of the
above experience must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
Orthopaedic Nursing Science after obtaining the post-basic qualification.
Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies Required: In-depth knowledge
of nursing legislation, nursing ethics and professional practice. Knowledge of
relevant legislation and policies including the Nursing Act, National Health Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Labour Relations Act, Public Service
Regulations, Batho Pele Principles, Patients' Rights Charter and relevant
Department of Health policies. Sound knowledge of Orthopaedic Nursing
standards, protocols and clinical guidelines. Leadership, supervisory, planning,
organisational and problem-solving skills. Ability to manage human, financial
and material resources effectively. Good communication, interpersonal, conflict
management and report-writing skills. Knowledge of Human Resource
Management, Labour Relations and Performance Management Systems.
Computer literacy in Microsoft Office applications. Ability to work effectively
within a multidisciplinary team environment.
DUTIES : Provide leadership and ensure the provision of optimal, holistic specialised
orthopaedic nursing care within a professional and legal framework. Plan,
organise, coordinate and monitor nursing activities within the Orthopaedic Unit
to ensure quality patient care. Supervise and support nursing personnel and
ensure adherence to policies, protocols and standards of care. Ensure effective
management and utilisation of human, financial and material resources within
144
the unit. Manage staff allocation, duty rosters, leave planning, performance
management and staff development. Monitor and promote infection prevention
and control practices, patient safety and quality improvement initiatives. Ensure
availability, maintenance and proper utilisation of equipment and supplies.
Monitor implementation of clinical governance programmes and quality
assurance standards. Coordinate and facilitate orientation, in-service training,
mentoring and continuous professional development of staff. Participate in
research activities and promote evidence-based nursing practice. Compile and
submit reports, statistics and other information as required. Promote and
uphold Batho Pele Principles and Patients' Rights Charter. Collaborate with
multidisciplinary teams to ensure efficient, cost-effective and equitable service
delivery. Maintain professional growth, ethical standards and self-
development. NB: Candidates must be prepared to work extended hours,
weekends, public holidays and perform after-hours managerial duties when
required by the service.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs I.F. Mpanza Tel No: (031) 907 8248
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be forwarded to: The Human Resource Manager OR Hand
deliver to A-Block 1st Floor white applications box. Prince Mshiyeni Memorial
Hospital Private Bag X07, Mobeni, 4060. For Attention: Mr. M.F Mlambo.
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications may alternatively be
emailed to: PrincemshiyeniHospital.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za for
Nursing Posts and: Mxolisi.Mlambo@kznhealth.gov.za for Medical Post
quoting reference number only in the subject line. Emailed applications should
please be sent as one attachment.
NOTE : Directions To Candidates: The applicant must submit a fully completed Z83
form and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) only. Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit proof of all documents and Certificate of Service
endorsed by Human Resources The official Z83 form ‘Application for
employment’ (the new amended version of the Z83 form effectively from
01/01/2021 must be used only; the old Z83 form will be rejected, if used). The
amended Z83 application for employment form is obtainable at any
Government Department OR downloaded from the website –
www.kznhealth.qov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za-vacansies. The ‘Reference
Number’ and ‘Position’ for which are applying (as stated in the advert) must be
clearly indicated in the columns provided on the form Z 83 e.g. Reference
number PMMH 01/2026.Applications may also be submitted via the KZN e-
Recruitment System, accessible at: www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs The system
allows applicants to: a) View advertised posts b) Register using a valid email
address and mobile number c) Complete and update personal profiles aligned
to the Z83 d) Upload CVs and supporting documents (ID, qualifications, etc.)
The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of Educational
Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
The successful candidate would be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment. Please note that due to the high number
of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
consider your application as unsuccessful, please. Persons with disabilities
from all designated race groups are encouraged to apply for the post. Please
note that no S&T payments will be considered for payment to candidates who
are invited for interviews. It is the shortlisted candidate’s responsibility to have
a foreign qualification, which is a requirement of the post, evaluated by the
South Africans Qualifications authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such
evaluation on application. Failure to comply will result in the application not
being considered The Department reserves the right not to fill the post/s.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will disqualify applicants. (This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is
to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department.)
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
145
POST 24/180 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: (GENERAL STREAM) REF NO:
PMMH 04/2026 (X1 POST)
Component: Outpatient Services
SALARY : R571 161 – R644 613 per annum. Other Benefits: Home Owner Allowance
(conditions apply), 13th Cheque (conditions apply) Medical Aid (Optional) In-
hospital Area Allowance (8% of basic salary)
CENTRE : Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Operational Manager Nursing (General Stream) Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing and Midwifery) that allows registration
with the ‘South African Nursing Council’ (SANC) as a Professional Nurse.
Certificates of Registration with the SANC (General Nursing and Midwifery)
Current registration with the SANC (2026) Experience: a minimum of 7 years
appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Recommendation
Computer literacy Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies Required:
Demonstrate an in depth understanding of nursing legislation and related legal
and ethical nursing practices. Possess communication skills for dealing with
patients, supervisors and other members of the multidisciplinary team including
the writing of reports when required. Good human relations displaying a
concern for patients, promoting and Advocating proper treatment and care
including a willingness and awareness to respond to patient’s needs,
requirements and expectations (Batho Pele) Demonstrate a basic
understanding of HR and Financial policies and practices. Demonstrate basic
computer literacy as a support tool to enhance service delivery. Ability to plan
and organise own work, time and that of support personnel to Ensure proper
nursing care in the unit.
DUTIES : Work as part of a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good nursing care that is
cost effective, equitable and efficient in outpatient services. Perform a quality
comprehensive clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of
practice and nursing standards as determined legislative framework and
national Core Standards and Office of Health Standard Compliance. Perform
duties within the ambits of legal framework as required. Ensure compliance to
professional and ethical practice. Work effectively and amicably at a
supervisory level with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious
differences. Perform duties as delegated by the supervisor and relief duties of
the assistant nurse manager’s office as required. Ensures implementation of
programs relevant to the area of speciality. Serves in quality improvement, IPC
and Health and Safety committees NB: Must be prepared to work shift as per
allocation; includes night shift, weekends and Public Holidays.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R.M Abboo Tel No: (031) 907 8518
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be forwarded to: The Human Resource Manager OR Hand
deliver to A-Block 1st Floor white applications box. Prince Mshiyeni Memorial
Hospital Private Bag X07, Mobeni, 4060. For Attention: Mr. M.F Mlambo.
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications may alternatively be
emailed to: PrincemshiyeniHospital.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za for
Nursing Posts and: Mxolisi.Mlambo@kznhealth.gov.za for Medical Post
quoting reference number only in the subject line. Emailed applications should
please be sent as one attachment.
NOTE : Directions To Candidates: The applicant must submit a fully completed Z83
form and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) only. Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit proof of all documents and Certificate of Service
endorsed by Human Resources The official Z83 form ‘Application for
employment’ (the new amended version of the Z83 form effectively from
01/01/2021 must be used only; the old Z83 form will be rejected, if used). The
amended Z83 application for employment form is obtainable at any
Government Department OR downloaded from the website –
www.kznhealth.qov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za-vacansies. The ‘Reference
Number’ and ‘Position’ for which are applying (as stated in the advert) must be
clearly indicated in the columns provided on the form Z 83 e.g. Reference
number PMMH 01/2026.Applications may also be submitted via the KZN e-
Recruitment System, accessible at: www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs The system
allows applicants to: a) View advertised posts b) Register using a valid email
address and mobile number c) Complete and update personal profiles aligned
to the Z83 d) Upload CVs and supporting documents (ID, qualifications, etc.)
The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
146
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of Educational
Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
The successful candidate would be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment. Please note that due to the high number
of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
consider your application as unsuccessful, please. Persons with disabilities
from all designated race groups are encouraged to apply for the post. Please
note that no S&T payments will be considered for payment to candidates who
are invited for interviews. It is the shortlisted candidate’s responsibility to have
a foreign qualification, which is a requirement of the post, evaluated by the
South Africans Qualifications authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such
evaluation on application. Failure to comply will result in the application not
being considered The Department reserves the right not to fill the post/s.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will disqualify applicants. (This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is
to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department.)
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
POST 24/181 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1/ 2 (SPECIALTY STREAM) REF NO:
PMMH 05/2026 (X1 POST)
Component: Operating Theatre
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 – R571 161 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 – R741 783 per annum
Other Benefits: Home Owner Allowance (conditions apply), 13th Cheque
(conditions apply) Medical Aid (Optional) In- hospital Area Allowance (8% of
basic salary)
CENTRE : Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification(i.e. Degree/Diploma)in nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council(SANC) as a “Professional Nurse” with Midwifery A post basic
qualification in ‘Operating Theatre Nursing Science’, with duration of at least 1
year, accredited with the SANC Certificates of Registration with the SANC
(General Nursing and Midwifery) Current registration with the SANC (2026)
Experience Grade 1: a minimum of 4 years appropriate/ recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Experience Grade 2: a minimum of 14 years appropriate/
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate/ recognizable experience in the specific specialty
(i.e. Operating Theatre Nursing Science) after obtaining the 1- year post-basic
qualification in the relevant specialty. Knowledge, Skills Training and
Competencies Required: Demonstrate an in depth understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices. Possess
communication skills for dealing with patients, supervisors and other members
of the multidisciplinary team including the writing of reports when required.
Good human relations displaying a concern for patients, promoting and
Advocating proper treatment and care including a willingness and awareness
to respond to patient’s needs, requirements and expectations (Batho Pele)
Demonstrate a basic understanding of HR and Financial policies and practices.
Demonstrate basic computer literacy as a support tool to enhance service
delivery. Ability to plan and organise own work, time and that of support
personnel to Ensure proper nursing care in the unit.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework in the Operating Theatre. Effective
utilization of resources. Participation in training and research. Provision of
support to nursing services and multidisciplinary theatre teams. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Display a concern
for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care including
awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements and
Work as part of a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good nursing care that is
147
cost Effective, equitable and efficient. NB: Must be prepared to work shift as
per allocation; includes night shift, weekends and Public Holidays.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R.M Abboo Tel No: (031) 907 8518
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be forwarded to: The Human Resource Manager OR Hand
deliver to A-Block 1st Floor white applications box. Prince Mshiyeni Memorial
Hospital Private Bag X07, Mobeni, 4060. For Attention: Mr. M.F Mlambo.
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications may alternatively be
emailed to: PrincemshiyeniHospital.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za for
Nursing Posts and: Mxolisi.Mlambo@kznhealth.gov.za for Medical Post
quoting reference number only in the subject line. Emailed applications should
please be sent as one attachment.
NOTE : Directions To Candidates: The applicant must submit a fully completed Z83
form and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) only. Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit proof of all documents and Certificate of Service
endorsed by Human Resources The official Z83 form ‘Application for
employment’ (the new amended version of the Z83 form effectively from
01/01/2021 must be used only; the old Z83 form will be rejected, if used). The
amended Z83 application for employment form is obtainable at any
Government Department OR downloaded from the website –
www.kznhealth.qov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za-vacansies. The ‘Reference
Number’ and ‘Position’ for which are applying (as stated in the advert) must be
clearly indicated in the columns provided on the form Z 83 e.g. Reference
number PMMH 01/2026.Applications may also be submitted via the KZN e-
Recruitment System, accessible at: www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs The system
allows applicants to: a) View advertised posts b) Register using a valid email
address and mobile number c) Complete and update personal profiles aligned
to the Z83 d) Upload CVs and supporting documents (ID, qualifications, etc.)
The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of Educational
Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
The successful candidate would be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment. Please note that due to the high number
of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
consider your application as unsuccessful, please. Persons with disabilities
from all designated race groups are encouraged to apply for the post. Please
note that no S&T payments will be considered for payment to candidates who
are invited for interviews. It is the shortlisted candidate’s responsibility to have
a foreign qualification, which is a requirement of the post, evaluated by the
South Africans Qualifications authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such
evaluation on application. Failure to comply will result in the application not
being considered The Department reserves the right not to fill the post/s.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will disqualify applicants. (This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is
to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department.)
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
POST 24/182 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-3 (GENERAL STREAM) REF NO:
PMMH 06/2026 (X5 POSTS)
Component: Admission, Antenatal & Labour Ward
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 – R391 515 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 – R478 116 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 – R635 704 per annum
Other Benefits: Home Owner Allowance (conditions apply), 13th Cheque
(conditions apply) Medical Aid (Optional) In- hospital Area Allowance (8% of
basic salary)
CENTRE : Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing and
Midwifery) that allows registration with the ‘South African Nursing Council’
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Current registration with the SANC (2026)
Experience Grade 1: None Experience Grade 2: a minimum of 10 years
148
appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Experience Grade 3: a
minimum of 20 years appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing
Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies Required: Knowledge of nursing
care processes and procedures, nursing statutes, and other relevant legal
frameworks. Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health & Safety Act. Patient
Rights Charter, Batho-Pele principles, Public Service Regulations, Labour Act,
Disciplinary Code and Procedure, Grievance Procedure, etc. Good
communication skills; Report writing skills Knowledge Management; Planning
& Organizing; Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Provide directions and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice/quality patient care. Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilise human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Assist with relief duties of the supervisor and act as a shift leader
on both day and night when necessary. Display a concern for patients,
promoting and advocating proper treatment and care including awareness and
willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements and Work as part of a
multi-disciplinary team to ensure good nursing care that is cost Effective,
equitable and efficient. NB: Must be prepared to work shift as per allocation;
includes night shift, weekends and Public Holidays.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R.M Abboo Tel No: (031) 907 8518
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be forwarded to: The Human Resource Manager OR Hand
deliver to A-Block 1st Floor white applications box. Prince Mshiyeni Memorial
Hospital Private Bag X07, Mobeni, 4060. For Attention: Mr. M.F Mlambo.
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications may alternatively be
emailed to: PrincemshiyeniHospital.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za for
Nursing Posts and: Mxolisi.Mlambo@kznhealth.gov.za for Medical Post
quoting reference number only in the subject line. Emailed applications should
please be sent as one attachment.
NOTE : Directions To Candidates: The applicant must submit a fully completed Z83
form and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) only. Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit proof of all documents and Certificate of Service
endorsed by Human Resources The official Z83 form ‘Application for
employment’ (the new amended version of the Z83 form effectively from
01/01/2021 must be used only; the old Z83 form will be rejected, if used). The
amended Z83 application for employment form is obtainable at any
Government Department OR downloaded from the website –
www.kznhealth.qov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za-vacansies. The ‘Reference
Number’ and ‘Position’ for which are applying (as stated in the advert) must be
clearly indicated in the columns provided on the form Z 83 e.g. Reference
number PMMH 01/2026.Applications may also be submitted via the KZN e-
Recruitment System, accessible at: www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs The system
allows applicants to: a) View advertised posts b) Register using a valid email
address and mobile number c) Complete and update personal profiles aligned
to the Z83 d) Upload CVs and supporting documents (ID, qualifications, etc.)
The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of Educational
Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
The successful candidate would be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment. Please note that due to the high number
of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
consider your application as unsuccessful, please. Persons with disabilities
from all designated race groups are encouraged to apply for the post. Please
note that no S&T payments will be considered for payment to candidates who
are invited for interviews. It is the shortlisted candidate’s responsibility to have
a foreign qualification, which is a requirement of the post, evaluated by the
South Africans Qualifications authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such
evaluation on application. Failure to comply will result in the application not
149
being considered The Department reserves the right not to fill the post/s.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will disqualify applicants. (This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is
to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department.)
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
POST 24/183 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-3 (GENERAL STREAM) REF NO:
PMMH 07/2026 (X1 POST)
Component: Neonatal
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 – R391 515 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 – R478 116 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 – R635 704 per annum
Other Benefits: Home Owner Allowance (conditions apply), 13th Cheque
(conditions apply) Medical Aid (Optional) In- hospital Area Allowance (8% of
basic salary)
CENTRE : Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing and
Midwifery) that allows registration with the ‘South African Nursing Council’
(SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Current registration with the SANC (2026)
Experience Grade 1: None Experience Grade 2: a minimum of 10 years
appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Experience Grade 3: a
minimum of 20 years appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing
Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies Required: Knowledge of nursing
care processes and procedures, nursing statutes, and other relevant legal
frameworks. Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health & Safety Act. Patient
Rights Charter, Batho-Pele principles, Public Service Regulations, Labour Act,
Disciplinary Code and Procedure, Grievance Procedure, etc. Good
communication skills; Report writing skills Knowledge Management; Planning
& Organizing; Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Provide directions and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice/quality patient care. Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilise human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Assist with relief duties of the supervisor and act as a shift leader
on both day and night when necessary. Display a concern for patients,
promoting and advocating proper treatment and care including awareness and
willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements and Work as part of a
multi-disciplinary team to ensure good nursing care that is cost Effective,
equitable and efficient. NB: Must be prepared to work shift as per allocation;
includes night shift, weekends and Public Holidays.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R.M Abboo Tel No: (031) 907 8518
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be forwarded to: The Human Resource Manager OR Hand
deliver to A-Block 1st Floor white applications box. Prince Mshiyeni Memorial
Hospital Private Bag X07, Mobeni, 4060. For Attention: Mr. M.F Mlambo
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications may alternatively be
emailed to: PrincemshiyeniHospital.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za for
Nursing Posts and: Mxolisi.Mlambo@kznhealth.gov.za for Medical Post
quoting reference number only in the subject line. Emailed applications should
please be sent as one attachment.
NOTE : Directions To Candidates: The applicant must submit a fully completed Z83
form and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) only. Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit proof of all documents and Certificate of Service
endorsed by Human Resources The official Z83 form ‘Application for
employment’ (the new amended version of the Z83 form effectively from
01/01/2021 must be used only; the old Z83 form will be rejected, if used). The
amended Z83 application for employment form is obtainable at any
Government Department OR downloaded from the website –
www.kznhealth.qov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za-vacansies. The ‘Reference
Number’ and ‘Position’ for which are applying (as stated in the advert) must be
clearly indicated in the columns provided on the form Z 83 e.g. Reference
150
number PMMH 01/2026.Applications may also be submitted via the KZN e-
Recruitment System, accessible at: www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs The system
allows applicants to: a) View advertised posts b) Register using a valid email
address and mobile number c) Complete and update personal profiles aligned
to the Z83 d) Upload CVs and supporting documents (ID, qualifications, etc.)
The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of Educational
Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
The successful candidate would be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment. Please note that due to the high number
of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
consider your application as unsuccessful, please. Persons with disabilities
from all designated race groups are encouraged to apply for the post. Please
note that no S&T payments will be considered for payment to candidates who
are invited for interviews. It is the shortlisted candidate’s responsibility to have
a foreign qualification, which is a requirement of the post, evaluated by the
South Africans Qualifications authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such
evaluation on application. Failure to comply will result in the application not
being considered The Department reserves the right not to fill the post/s.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will disqualify applicants. (This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is
to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department.)
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
POST 24/184 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-3 (GENERAL STREAM) REF NO:
PMMH 08/2026 (X1 POST)
Component: Surgical
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 – R391 515 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 – R478 116 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 – R635 704 per annum
Other Benefits: Home Owner Allowance (conditions apply), 13th Cheque
(conditions apply) Medical Aid (Optional) In- hospital Area Allowance (8% of
basic salary)
CENTRE : Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing that allows registration with the ‘South
African Nursing Council’ (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Current registration
with the SANC (2026) Experience Grade 1: None Experience Grade 2: a
minimum of 10 years appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Experience Grade 3: a minimum of 20 years appropriate/ recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes, and
other relevant legal frameworks. Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health
& Safety Act. Patient Rights Charter, Batho-Pele principles, Public Service
Regulations, Labour Act, Disciplinary Code and Procedure, Grievance
Procedure, etc. Good communication skills; Report writing skills Knowledge
Management; Planning & Organizing; Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Provide directions and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice/quality patient care. Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilise human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Assist with relief duties of the supervisor and act as a shift leader
on both day and night when necessary. Display a concern for patients,
promoting and advocating proper treatment and care including awareness and
willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements and Work as part of a
multi-disciplinary team to ensure good nursing care that is cost Effective,
equitable and efficient. NB: Must be prepared to work shift as per allocation;
includes night shift, weekends and Public Holidays. Management reserves the
151
right to allocate employees outside the appointed domain as service demands;
this may occur in the instance of staff shortages experienced in any nurse
component.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R.M Abboo Tel No: (031) 907 8518
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be forwarded to: The Human Resource Manager OR Hand
deliver to A-Block 1st Floor white applications box. Prince Mshiyeni Memorial
Hospital Private Bag X07, Mobeni, 4060. For Attention: Mr. M.F Mlambo.
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications may alternatively be
emailed to: PrincemshiyeniHospital.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za for
Nursing Posts and: Mxolisi.Mlambo@kznhealth.gov.za for Medical Post
quoting reference number only in the subject line. Emailed applications should
please be sent as one attachment.
NOTE : Directions To Candidates: The applicant must submit a fully completed Z83
form and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) only. Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit proof of all documents and Certificate of Service
endorsed by Human Resources The official Z83 form ‘Application for
employment’ (the new amended version of the Z83 form effectively from
01/01/2021 must be used only; the old Z83 form will be rejected, if used). The
amended Z83 application for employment form is obtainable at any
Government Department OR downloaded from the website –
www.kznhealth.qov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za-vacansies. The ‘Reference
Number’ and ‘Position’ for which are applying (as stated in the advert) must be
clearly indicated in the columns provided on the form Z 83 e.g. Reference
number PMMH 01/2026.Applications may also be submitted via the KZN e-
Recruitment System, accessible at: www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs The system
allows applicants to: a) View advertised posts b) Register using a valid email
address and mobile number c) Complete and update personal profiles aligned
to the Z83 d) Upload CVs and supporting documents (ID, qualifications, etc.)
The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of Educational
Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
The successful candidate would be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment. Please note that due to the high number
of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
consider your application as unsuccessful, please. Persons with disabilities
from all designated race groups are encouraged to apply for the post. Please
note that no S&T payments will be considered for payment to candidates who
are invited for interviews. It is the shortlisted candidate’s responsibility to have
a foreign qualification, which is a requirement of the post, evaluated by the
South Africans Qualifications authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such
evaluation on application. Failure to comply will result in the application not
being considered The Department reserves the right not to fill the post/s.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will disqualify applicants. (This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is
to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department.)
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
POST 24/185 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-3 (GENERAL STREAM) REF NO:
PMMH 09/2026 (X1 POST)
Component: Medical
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 – R391 515 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 – R478 116 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 – R635 704 per annum
Other Benefits: Home Owner Allowance (conditions apply), 13th Cheque
(conditions apply) Medical Aid (Optional) In- hospital Area Allowance (8% of
basic salary)
CENTRE : Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing that allows registration with the ‘South
African Nursing Council’ (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. Current registration
with the SANC (2026) Experience Grade 1: None Experience Grade 2: a
152
minimum of 10 years appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Experience Grade 3: a minimum of 20 years appropriate/ recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes, and
other relevant legal frameworks. Nursing Act, Health Act, Occupational Health
& Safety Act. Patient Rights Charter, Batho-Pele principles, Public Service
Regulations, Labour Act, Disciplinary Code and Procedure, Grievance
Procedure, etc. Good communication skills; Report writing skills Knowledge
Management; Planning & Organizing; Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Provide directions and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice/quality patient care. Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilise human, material and physical resources efficiently and
effectively. Assist with relief duties of the supervisor and act as a shift leader
on both day and night when necessary. Display a concern for patients,
promoting and advocating proper treatment and care including awareness and
willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements and Work as part of a
multi-disciplinary team to ensure good nursing care that is cost Effective,
equitable and efficient. NB: Must be prepared to work shift as per allocation;
includes night shift, weekends and Public Holidays.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R.M Abboo Tel No: (031) 907 8518
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be forwarded to: The Human Resource Manager OR Hand
deliver to A-Block 1st Floor white applications box. Prince Mshiyeni Memorial
Hospital Private Bag X07, Mobeni, 4060. For Attention: Mr. M.F Mlambo
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications may alternatively be
emailed to: PrincemshiyeniHospital.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za for
Nursing Posts and: Mxolisi.Mlambo@kznhealth.gov.za for Medical Post
quoting reference number only in the subject line. Emailed applications should
please be sent as one attachment.
NOTE : Directions To Candidates: The applicant must submit a fully completed Z83
form and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) only. Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit proof of all documents and Certificate of Service
endorsed by Human Resources The official Z83 form ‘Application for
employment’ (the new amended version of the Z83 form effectively from
01/01/2021 must be used only; the old Z83 form will be rejected, if used). The
amended Z83 application for employment form is obtainable at any
Government Department OR downloaded from the website –
www.kznhealth.qov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za-vacansies. The ‘Reference
Number’ and ‘Position’ for which are applying (as stated in the advert) must be
clearly indicated in the columns provided on the form Z 83 e.g. Reference
number PMMH 01/2026.Applications may also be submitted via the KZN e-
Recruitment System, accessible at: www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs The system
allows applicants to: a) View advertised posts b) Register using a valid email
address and mobile number c) Complete and update personal profiles aligned
to the Z83 d) Upload CVs and supporting documents (ID, qualifications, etc.)
The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of Educational
Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
The successful candidate would be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment. Please note that due to the high number
of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
consider your application as unsuccessful, please. Persons with disabilities
from all designated race groups are encouraged to apply for the post. Please
note that no S&T payments will be considered for payment to candidates who
are invited for interviews. It is the shortlisted candidate’s responsibility to have
a foreign qualification, which is a requirement of the post, evaluated by the
South Africans Qualifications authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such
evaluation on application. Failure to comply will result in the application not
153
being considered The Department reserves the right not to fill the post/s.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will disqualify applicants. (This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is
to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department.)
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
POST 24/186 : STAFF NURSE REF NO: PMMH 10/2026 (X1 POST)
Component: Orthopaedics
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 – R256 671 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 – R306 294 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 – R391 515 per annum
Other Benefits: Home Owner Allowance (conditions apply), 13th Cheque
(conditions apply) Medical Aid (Optional)
CENTRE : Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Enrolled Nurse Certificate. Current registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) 2026 as a Staff Nurse. Experience
Grade 1: None Experience Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Staff Nurse. Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies Required:
Knowledge of Public Service Policies, Acts, Regulations, Code of Conduct,
Labour Relations Act, Batho Pele Principles and Patients’ Rights Charter.
Knowledge of SANC rules and regulations. Knowledge of nursing care
processes and procedures. Good communication, writing, facilitation and
interpersonal skills. Ability to function effectively as part of a multidisciplinary
team. Basic understanding of clinical nursing care within a specialised unit.
DUTIES : Provide basic nursing care within the Orthopaedic Unit under supervision
Assist Professional Nurses with patient care and procedures Maintain patient
hygiene, comfort and safety Observe and report changes in patient condition
Assist with admissions, transfers and discharges Maintain accurate records
and reports Ensure adherence to infection prevention and control standards
Work as part of a multidisciplinary team to ensure quality patient care NB: Must
be prepared to work shift as per allocation; includes night shift, weekends and
Public Holidays.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R.M Abboo Tel No: (031) 907 8518
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be forwarded to: The Human Resource Manager OR Hand
deliver to A-Block 1st Floor white applications box. Prince Mshiyeni Memorial
Hospital Private Bag X07, Mobeni, 4060. For Attention: Mr. M.F Mlambo
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications may alternatively be
emailed to: PrincemshiyeniHospital.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za for
Nursing Posts and: Mxolisi.Mlambo@kznhealth.gov.za for Medical Post
quoting reference number only in the subject line. Emailed applications should
please be sent as one attachment.
NOTE : Directions To Candidates: The applicant must submit a fully completed Z83
form and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) only. Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit proof of all documents and Certificate of Service
endorsed by Human Resources The official Z83 form ‘Application for
employment’ (the new amended version of the Z83 form effectively from
01/01/2021 must be used only; the old Z83 form will be rejected, if used). The
amended Z83 application for employment form is obtainable at any
Government Department OR downloaded from the website –
www.kznhealth.qov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za-vacansies. The ‘Reference
Number’ and ‘Position’ for which are applying (as stated in the advert) must be
clearly indicated in the columns provided on the form Z 83 e.g. Reference
number PMMH 01/2026.Applications may also be submitted via the KZN e-
Recruitment System, accessible at: www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs The system
allows applicants to: a) View advertised posts b) Register using a valid email
address and mobile number c) Complete and update personal profiles aligned
to the Z83 d) Upload CVs and supporting documents (ID, qualifications, etc.)
The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of Educational
Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
154
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
The successful candidate would be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment. Please note that due to the high number
of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
consider your application as unsuccessful, please. Persons with disabilities
from all designated race groups are encouraged to apply for the post. Please
note that no S&T payments will be considered for payment to candidates who
are invited for interviews. It is the shortlisted candidate’s responsibility to have
a foreign qualification, which is a requirement of the post, evaluated by the
South Africans Qualifications authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such
evaluation on application. Failure to comply will result in the application not
being considered The Department reserves the right not to fill the post/s.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will disqualify applicants. (This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is
to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department.)
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
POST 24/187 : STAFF NURSE REF NO: PMMH 11/2026 (X1 POST)
Component: Admission, Antenatal & Labour Ward
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 – R256 671 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 – R306 294 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 – R391 515 per annum
Other Benefits: Home Owner Allowance (conditions apply), 13th Cheque
(conditions apply) Medical Aid (Optional)
CENTRE : Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Appointment and Experience Requirements: Grade 12 Certificate.
Enrolled Nurse Certificate. Current registration with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC) 2026 as a Staff Nurse. Experience Grade 1: None Experience
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience Grade 3:
A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Knowledge, Skills Training and
Competencies Required: Knowledge of Public Service Policies, Acts,
Regulations, Code of Conduct, Labour Relations Act, Batho Pele Principles
and Patients’ Rights Charter. Knowledge of SANC rules and regulations.
Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures. Good communication,
writing, facilitation and interpersonal skills. Ability to function effectively as part
of a multidisciplinary team. Understanding of maternal, antenatal and labour
ward basic nursing care principles.
DUTIES : Provide basic nursing care in the Admission, Antenatal and Labour Ward under
supervision. Assist with monitoring of pregnant women and labouring mothers.
Support Professional Nurses during deliveries and emergencies. Maintain
patient hygiene, comfort and safety. Assist with admissions, observations and
documentation. Report abnormalities promptly to Professional Nurses. Ensure
adherence to infection prevention and control measures. Participate in team-
based patient care delivery. NB: Must be prepared to work shift as per
allocation; includes night shift, weekends and Public Holidays.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R.M Abboo Tel No: (031) 907 8518
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be forwarded to: The Human Resource Manager OR Hand
deliver to A-Block 1st Floor white applications box. Prince Mshiyeni Memorial
Hospital Private Bag X07, Mobeni, 4060. For Attention: Mr. M.F Mlambo.
Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications may alternatively be
emailed to: PrincemshiyeniHospital.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za for
Nursing Posts and: Mxolisi.Mlambo@kznhealth.gov.za for Medical Post
quoting reference number only in the subject line. Emailed applications should
please be sent as one attachment.
NOTE : Directions To Candidates: The applicant must submit a fully completed Z83
form and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV) only. Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit proof of all documents and Certificate of Service
endorsed by Human Resources The official Z83 form ‘Application for
employment’ (the new amended version of the Z83 form effectively from
01/01/2021 must be used only; the old Z83 form will be rejected, if used). The
155
amended Z83 application for employment form is obtainable at any
Government Department OR downloaded from the website –
www.kznhealth.qov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za-vacansies. The ‘Reference
Number’ and ‘Position’ for which are applying (as stated in the advert) must be
clearly indicated in the columns provided on the form Z 83 e.g. Reference
number PMMH 01/2026.Applications may also be submitted via the KZN e-
Recruitment System, accessible at: www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs The system
allows applicants to: a) View advertised posts b) Register using a valid email
address and mobile number c) Complete and update personal profiles aligned
to the Z83 d) Upload CVs and supporting documents (ID, qualifications, etc.)
The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of Educational
Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
The successful candidate would be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment. Please note that due to the high number
of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
consider your application as unsuccessful, please. Persons with disabilities
from all designated race groups are encouraged to apply for the post. Please
note that no S&T payments will be considered for payment to candidates who
are invited for interviews. It is the shortlisted candidate’s responsibility to have
a foreign qualification, which is a requirement of the post, evaluated by the
South Africans Qualifications authority (SAQA) and to provide proof of such
evaluation on application. Failure to comply will result in the application not
being considered The Department reserves the right not to fill the post/s.
Failure to comply with the above instructions will disqualify applicants. (This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is
to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department.)
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
POST 24/188 : PROFESIONAL NURSE (GENERAL STREAM) WITH MIDWIFERY REF NO:
VRH 01/2026 (X1 POST)
Component: Primary Health Care (Integrated School Health Programme)
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 – R391 515 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 – R478 116 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 – R625 704 per annum
Other Benefits: Medical Aid – Optional, Housing Allowance - Employee must
meet prescribed requirements, 13th Cheque and 12% rural allowance.
CENTRE : Vryheid District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / B Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse with Midwifery. Registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse with Midwifery. Current SANC receipt. Valid
driver’s license. Grade 1: No experience. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with SANC in general nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with SANC in general nursing. Knowledge, Skills, Training
and Competences Required: Problem solving and decision making. Health
promotion and team building. Report writing and presentation skills. Good
communication skills: Public speaking, listening and summarizing. Good
Interpersonal skills. School Health Policy and Guidelines Relevant Health
Programmes viz. HAST, MCWH, Healthy Lifestyle, Nutrition, Mental Health,
Non- Communicable diseases. Sexuality Education. Batho Pele Principles.
Legislation that guides practice. Nursing skills. Driving skills.
DUTIES : Offering a comprehensive integrated package of ISHP services. Basic health
screening of learners as per ISHP policy. Ensuring prompt referrals to a higher
level of care or to other sectors whilst working with the Ward Based Primary
Health Care Outreach Teams. Ensure the implementation of the Integrated
Multi stakeholder Health Promotion and Wellbeing Strategy in the Sub-
District/District. Working with all relevant stakeholders ensure well-coordinated
and successful HPV Campaigns at stipulated periods. Support all health
campaigns as per sub-district/district plans. Working with all relevant
156
stakeholders support ECDs and qualifying schools in being accredited as being
health promotion. Attend school health and other related forums to address
relevant issues and ensure resolutions. Attend Sub-District and District
Community Based Model meetings. Compile monthly and quarterly reports to
all levels. Ensure accurate, consistent, complete and reliable data. Conduct
data audits of all school health, HPV and other health campaigns. Offer support
to the household champions in line with the CBM concept. Support the
disclosure and adherence to short term or chronic treatment that learners are
on. Support the Expanded Programme on Immunization: Administration of
vaccines, Vitamin A, Deworming etc. Support the WBPHCOTs with growth
monitoring and Family MUAC projects while working with the Community
Health Workers. Fast track all investigations done e.g. sputum collection, blood
specimens etc. Working with the sub-district Dental, Eye Care and School
Health Teams coordinate outreach services to schools.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. ATS Sibiya Tel No: (034) 982 2111, Ext 5918
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be forwarded to: Assistant Director: HRM, Private Bag
X9371, Vryheid, 3100 or be hand delivered at Coswald Brown Street, Vryheid
3100, HR office No: 09 or email to
VryheidHospital.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za
NOTE : This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose
aim is to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department. The contents of this circular minute must be brought to the notice
of all eligible employees on the establishment of all institutions without delay. It
must be ensured that all employees who meet the requirements of the post are
made aware on this circular minute even if they are absent from their normal
places of work. Directions To Candidates: The following documents must be
submitted: Application for employment form (Form Z83), which is obtainable at
any Government Department OR from the website (www.kznhealth.gov.za)
issued by Minister of DPSA in line with regulation 10 of the Public Service
Regulations 2016. Applicant must utilize the most recent Z83 form. The Z83
must be fully completed: Failure to do so will result in disqualification. A detailed
Curriculum Vitae (CV) and Please note that it is no longer a requirement to
submit any qualification or supporting documents, only shortlisted candidate
will be required to produce certified copies of documents on or before the day
of the interview. The Reference Number and the position for which you are
applying (as stated in the advert) must be clearly indicated in the columns
provided on the Z83 form. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
The appointments are subject to positive outcome obtained from the NIA to the
following checks (Security clearance, credit records, qualifications, citizenship
and previous experience verifications) It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
a foreign qualification which is the inherent requirement of the job evaluated by
the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide proof when
shortlisted. Failure to comply will result in the application not being considered.
Applicants are respectfully informed that if no notification of appointment is
received within 3 months after the closing date they must accept that their
applications were unsuccessful. People living with disabilities are encouraged
to apply for the post. Please note that due to financial constraint no S&T claims
will be considered for payment to the candidates that are invited for an
interview. The department reserves the right not to fill the post. Failure to
comply with the above instructions will disqualify your application. The post will
be filled in terms of the Employment Equity Target. NB: Sending applications
using courier service/email is encouraged as we have challenges with the post
office.
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
157
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Limpopo Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer with clear employment equity targets. Applications are hereby invited for the filling of the
vacant posts, which exist in the Limpopo Department of Agriculture and Rural Development. Women and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants using electronic format must apply on the following website:
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za and applicants submitting applications in a
printed hard copy (manual or hand delivery) must quote the relevant reference
number on the Z83 application for employment form and forward to the below
addresses.
For Head office: Polokwane; Mara Research Station; Towoomba Research
Station, Thulamela, Makhado Laboratory, Mokopane Lboratory, Lephalale
Laboratory, Tompi Seleka College and Madzivhandila College: The Head of
Department, Limpopo Department of Agriculture and Rural Development,
Private Bag X9487, Polokwane 0700 or hand delivered to: Office 48, Temo
Towers Floor 2, 67/69 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699.
Waterberg District: The Director Waterberg District Limpopo Agriculture and
Rural Development, Private Bag X1048, Modimolle, 0510 or hand delivered to:
Cnr Thabo Mbeki and Limpopo Streets, Old NTK Buildings, Modimolle, 0510.
Capricorn District: The Director: Capricorn District, Limpopo Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X28, Chuenespoort, 0745 or
hand delivered to: Block 28 Next to Traffic Government offices: Lebowakgomo.
Sekhukhune District: The Director: Sekhukhune District, Limpopo
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X01,
Chuenespoort, 0745 or hand delivered to: Block 27 Next to Traffic Government
offices: Lebowakgomo.
Mopani District: The Director Mopani District Limpopo Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X577, Giyani, 0826 or hand
delivered to: Old Parliamentary Building, Giyani, 0826.
Vhembe District: The Director: Vhembe District, Limpopo Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Private Bag X2247, Sibasa, 0970 or
Physical address: Handed in at Makwarela Government offices.
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 00:00 (online)
NOTE : It is compulsory for the applicant to complete all the mandatory fields of the E-
recruitment System. Once all the fields in an E-recruitment System are
completed, the applicant shall confirm that they understand that by applying
electronically, they agree that all the information presented is true, correct, and
legally binding. All applications submitted through an electronic format shall be
accepted as the final application and may not be amended or supplemented in
any way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement. Applicants
submitting applications in a printed hard copy (manual or hand delivery) must
utilize the most recent Z83 application for employment form as issued by the
Minister for the Public Service and Administration in line with Regulation 10 of
the Public Service Regulation, 2016, as amended, failure to do so will results
in disqualification. The Z83 form must be completed in a manner that provides
sufficient information about the candidate and the post he or she applies for by
completing all relevant fields. The declaration must be signed in order for an
applicant to be considered. The following must be considered in relation to the
completion of the new z83 form by the applicants: All the fields in Parts A, B,
C, and D must be completed. In Part B, all fields must be completed in full
except the following; South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers, If an applicant responds "no" to the question I' Are you conducting
business with the State or are you a Director of a Public or Private Company
conducting business with the State?" then the answer to the next question "In
the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interests?" can be left blank or indicated as not
applicable. A "not applicable" or blank response will be allowed on the question
"if your profession or occupation requires official registration, provide date and
particulars of registration”, if you are not in possession of such registration.
Noting there is limited space provided for Part E, F & G, applicants often
indicate "refer to Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see attached", this is acceptable as
long as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. If the
information required is not provided in the CV, the applicant may be
158
disqualified. It must be noted that a CV is an extension of the application of
employment Z83, and applicants are accountable for the information that is
provided therein. The question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part F must be answered (Applicants currently employed
by the public service do not need to complete the section). The application
must include only completed and signed Z83 form and a recently updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience). Certified copies of
Identity Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as
well as a driver's license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the date of the interview date. The applicant
may submit additional information separately where the space provided on z83
form is not sufficient. Applicants who apply for more than one position are
requested to submit separate applications for each position they wish to apply
for. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only due to the
large number of applications we envisage to receive and if you have not heard
from us within 90 days of the closing date, please accept that your application
has been unsuccessful. However, should there be any dissatisfaction,
applicants are hereby advised to, within 90 days, request reasons from the
Department for any administrative action which has adversely affected them in
terms of section 5(1)(2) of the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act 3 of
2000. By virtue of applying, you are consenting that the department subject
you to personnel suitability checks e.g. the verification of educational
qualifications, previous experience, citizenship, reference checks, financial
checks and security vetting. Candidates with foreign qualifications are advised
to attach SAQA accreditation of their qualifications. As per DPSA directive on
human resources management and development for public service
professionalization volume 1, “All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and
the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Note: All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and structured interview. Following the technical exercise and structured
interview, a maximum of three (3) recommended candidates shall undergo a
psychometric assessment to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural
preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. In order to ensure that
potential SMS members have a background on processes and procedures
linked to the SMS, a further requirement for appointment at SMS level will be
a successful completion of the Senior Management pre-entry
certificate/programme as endorsed by the National School of Governance
(NSC) with effect from 01st April 2020. This is a Public Service specific training
programme which will be applicable for appointments at SMS level. The link for
the completion of the SMS pre-entry certificate is as follows:
https://www.thensg.qov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. All
short-listed candidates will be required to have completed the pre-entry SMS
certificate and submit such upon appointment. Failure to comply with the above
requirements will results in the disqualification of the application. Successful
incumbents will be expected to sign a performance agreement within three
months of the assumption of duty and be required to disclose their financial
interest in accordance with the prescribed regulations. Failure to comply with
the above requirements will result in the disqualification of the application. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment for the advertised
posts. The employment decision shall be made based on the Employment
Equity Plan for the Department. Note: Due to austerity measures, the
department will not carry any related costs (transport, accommodation, and
meals) for candidates attending interviews. Note: The full contents of the
advertised posts will be posted on the following websites: www.ldard.gov.za;
www.limpopo.gov.za and Departmental social media.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 24/189 : DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, MONITORING AND
EVALUATION REF NO: LDARD 1/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive remunerative package.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate undergraduate (NQF level 7) qualification in
Public Management/ Administration/ Business Management/ Administration or
equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 5 years of experience at a
159
middle/senior managerial level. A valid driver`s license (with exception of
people with disabilities). Proof of completion of SMS pre- entry certificate must
be submitted before appointed. Knowledge, Competencies, and Skills:
Extensive knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Ability to develop a perspective of the
department’s vision, mission & strategy. Extensive knowledge and
understanding of strategic planning processes. An understanding of corporate
governance in all spheres of Government. Good background in turn around
and change management strategy. Proven experience and thorough
understanding of agriculture and rural development sector. Core
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. People Management and
empowerment, Programme and project management. Financial Management.
Change and management. Process competencies: Knowledge Management,
Service delivery innovation, problem solving analysis, client orientation and
customer focus, communication.
DUTIES : Manage, facilitate and coordinate strategic planning and policy coordination
process. Establish, maintain and manage monitoring and evaluation systems
for the department. Assess the impact of service delivery and ensure the
implementation of programs aimed at improving service delivery. Provide
advisory services to management pertaining to organisational development
services. Manage and utilise resources (financial, human and physical) in
accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/190 : DIRECTOR: EXTENSION AND ADVISORY SERVICES REF NO: LDARD
2/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), all-inclusive remunerative package.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate undergraduate (NQF level 7) qualification in
Agriculture or equivalent as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 5 years of
experience at a middle/senior managerial level. A valid driver`s license (with
exception of people with disabilities). Proof of completion of SMS pre- entry
certificate must be submitted before appointed. Knowledge, Competencies,
And Skills: Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework, Acts
and regulations governing the Public Service. Knowledge and understanding
of agricultural extension and advisory regulations, policies and plans. Working
experience and knowledge of agricultural environment. Working knowledge of
HR, Financial management, supply chain and asset prescripts and policies.
Core Competencies: Knowledge Management. Service delivery innovation,
problem solving analysis. client orientation and customer focus,
communication. Process competencies: Strategic capability and leadership.
People Management and empowerment, Programme and project
management. Financial Management. Change and management.
DUTIES : Facilitate the provision of agricultural extension support services. Ensure
agricultural programmes coordination and linkages with stakeholders. Manage
food security and poverty alleviation programmes. Establish and maintain good
relations within the department and all stakeholders. Manage and utilise
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/191 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EXTENSION AND ADVISORY SERVICES (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remunerative package.
CENTRE : Waterberg South Central Ref No: LDARD 3/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Mopani North Ref No: LDARD 4/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Capricorn East Ref No: LDARD 5/7/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an undergraduate (NQF 7) qualification in agriculture or
equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 5 years’
160
experience in Agricultural Environment of which 3 years must be at Assistant
Director level. A valid driver`s license (with exception of people with
disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework, Acts and regulations governing the
Public Service. Knowledge and understanding of agricultural extension and
advisory regulations, policies and plans. Knowledge and understanding of
Project Management. Working knowledge and understanding of financial
management, supply chain and asset management policies and prescripts.
Leadership & Management skills. Interpersonal relations. Communications
skills. Conflict management skills. Policy analyzing and interpretation skills.
Report writing skills. Presentation skills. Innovative, creative thinker.
Management principles. Labour Relations skills Willingness to work under
changing and difficult circumstances. Client focused strategist.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of crop and animal production services. Manage the
coordination and provision of extension services & linkages with stakeholders.
Manage the facilitation of farmer capacity development services. Manage the
provision of administrative support service. Manage and utilise resources
(human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT, Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or (015)
811 1189.
Waterberg District: Ms. Kekana RM Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Mr. Nkoko KA
Tel No: (014) 717 1064/2523.
Capricorn District: Mr. Masera Tel No: (015) 632 8625, Mr. Mphahlele STG Tel
No: (015) 632 8600 or Ms. Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 632 8600.
POST 24/192 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDARD
6/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remunerative package
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 7) qualification in Disaster
Management/ Agriculture/ Environmental Management sciences as
recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 5 years’ experience in Agricultural Disaster
Risk Management environment of which 3 years must be at Assistant Director
level. A valid driver`s license (with exception of people with disabilities).
Knowledge, Competencies, and Skills: Sound and in-depth knowledge of
relevant prescripts, and application of public services as well as understanding
of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Sound and in-depth
knowledge of Agricultural Disaster Management. Proven management
competencies and experience. Action-oriented and results-driven. Ability to
work in a highly pressured environment and driven by a sense of urgency to
meet deadlines. Thorough understanding of policy formulation and co-
ordination. Strategic capability & Leadership. Program and project
Management skills. Financial Management skills. Change Management skills.
Communication skills. Conflict Management skills. Policy analysing skills.
Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Provide management on early warning system tools for effective planning and
implementation of disaster risk reduction programs. Manage post disaster
recovery, rehabilitation and disaster relief scheme. Provide management on
capacity building, conduct awareness programmes, and participate on the
relevant climate change and disaster risk management structures. Manage the
implementation of climate change programs to ensure compliance in support
of disaster risk management policies. Manage and utilise resources (human
and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/193 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE PROVISIONING AND
UTILIZATION REF NO: LDARD 7/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remunerative package.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF level 6 qualification in Human Resource
Management, Public Management/ Administration or equivalent qualification
as recognised by SAQA. Certificate PERSAL Training / Certificate. Minimum of
5 years’ experience in HRM environment of which 3 years must be at Assistant
161
Director level. A valid driver`s license (with exception of people with
disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Computer Literacy. Sound
and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service i.e Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Public Finance Management
Act. Experience of, and insight into legislation which impacts on human
resource provisioning and utilisation. Presentation Skills. Report Writing Skills.
Communication Skills. Problem Solving Skills. Negotiation Skills. Creativity and
Innovation. Time Management. Computer Skills.
DUTIES : Manage development of recruitment plan. Manage recruitment and selection
processes. Manage transfers and translations. manage the coordination of
salary packages for SMS and MMS restructuring. Manage and utilise
resources (financial, human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/194 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: AGRIBUSINESS DEVELOPMENT REF NO: LDARD
8/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remunerative package.
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF Level 8 qualification in Agricultural
Economics or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of 5
years relevant experience required of which 3 years’ experience must be at an
Assistant Director level. A valid driver`s license (with exception of people with
disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Computer skills
(advanced). Statistical skills. Negotiation skills (advanced). Knowledge of
economic and financial (advanced) analytical techniques.
Communication/presentation skills (advanced).
DUTIES : Manage the rendering of services in the agricultural and agribusiness sector.
Continuous in-depth study/research of developments/patterns/trends in a
specific agricultural environment (e.g. resources, production, marketing,
reform, macroeconomics, farm management, agricultural business,
international trade and investment, business support, rural development etc.).
Manage the analysis/identification of economic questions/challenges in a
specific environment/situation (specific districts/areas, a specific industry,
specific events/circumstances) pertaining to legislation/strategy/
policy/initiatives/interventions. Manage the application, adaptation and/or
development of models in order to reflect the current situation and/or
forecast/project possible scenarios. Initiate, design and manage the
compilation of the final output eg. reports, position papers, information
documents, policy documents, strategies, populated databases, international
agreements. Manage the implementation of trade initiatives, negotiations and
policies. Manage the provision of advice to internal & external stakeholders on
the impact of forecasts for decision-making, initiatives and/or interventions
within a specific environment. Manage the development, monitoring and
evaluation of business plans. Establish and maintain a network for liaison with
economic/agricultural analysis institutions. Perform administrative and related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/195 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LANDCARE AND LANDUSE MANAGEMENT REF
NO: LDARD 9/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remunerative package.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Soil Science/Land
Use Planning/ Agricultural Management/ Environmental Management or
equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by SAQA. Minimum
of 5 years’ experience in Land Care and Land Use environment of which 3
years must be at Assistant Director level. A valid driver’s licence (with the
exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies And Skills:
Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts and understanding of the
162
legislative framework governing the Public Service i.e Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Public Finance Management
Act. Experience of, and insight into legislation which impacts on Land Care and
Land Use. People Management. Financial Management. Problem Solving.
Planning & organizing. Time Management. Policy analysis and development.
Good Communication skills. Group dynamics. Diversity management.
Facilitation skills. Co-ordination skills. Leadership skills.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor the provision of integrated sustainable Land Use planning
in accordance with CARA and SALA/ PDALA. Manage and monitor the
implementation of Landcare programme. Monitor and coordinate the
implementation of soil conservation. Manage and utilise resources (human and
physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/196 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EPWP REF NO: LDARD 10/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remunerative package.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF level 6 qualification in Natural Resource
Management / Environmental Management / Project Management /
Agricultural Management or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as
recognised by SAQA. Minimum of 5 years post qualification experience of
which three (3) must be Assistant Director level in EPWP environment. A valid
driver’s licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of Natural Resource Management and
Environmental Management. Understanding of governmental service delivery
environment, teamwork, PFMA, LRA, IDPS, LEGDP, land care, conflict
Resolution, Community development. Project Management. Good
interpersonal relations; Computer proficiency; Report writing; Negotiation
skills; People Management; Financial Management; Problem Solving;
Planning & organizing; Time Management; Strategic Planning; Policy analysis
and development. Good Communication skills; Group dynamics; Diversity
management; Facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Manage the coordination of EPWP functions to sector departments and
municipalities. Manage the reporting of job opportunities created through
EPWP within the departmental programmes. Manage coordination of the
development and implementation of sector training and capacity building plans.
Manage coordination on the rehabilitation of agricultural land through EPWP
interventions. Manage and utilise resources (human and physical) in
accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/197 : REGISTRAR REF NO: LDARD 11/7/2026 (X1 POST)
(Twelve months fixed contract)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive remunerative package.
CENTRE : Madzivhandila College
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate plus an appropriate NQF Level 8 qualification in Public
Administration/ Management or equivalent relevant qualification as recognised
by SAQA. Minimum 3-5 years’ appropriate management experience. A valid
driver’s licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Good Communication Skills. Good knowledge of the
Agricultural training. Planning & Organizing skills. All relevant legislative
frameworks governing Education and Training Institutions. Formal training and
presentation skills. Computer proficiency skills will be tested.
DUTIES : Proper management of student information. Manages efficient use of college
properties and infrastructure by students. Supervises all learner processes
from enrolments to graduation. Provision of secretariat services. Performs the
essential roles of supporting, facilitating, and promoting the academic mission
of the College. Manage and foster adherence to college policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
163
POST 24/198 : GIS PROFESSIONAL GRADE A REF NO: LDARD 12/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD), all-inclusive remunerative package.
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an undergraduate 4-year B degree (NQF Level 7) qualification
in GISc or appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) in GISc. Three (03) years post qualification
GISc professional experience required. Current registration with PLATO is
compulsory. Valid driver’s license (with the exception of the people with
disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Technical: Programme and
project management. GIS, legal and operational compliance and GIS
Implementation. Standards development. Policy formulation. GIS operational
communication. Process knowledge and skills. Maintenance skills and
knowledge. Mobile equipment operating skills. Systems skills. Spatial
modelling design and analysis knowledge. Research and development. GIS
applications. Creating high performance culture. Technical consulting.
Professional judgment. Accountability. Generic: Strategic management and
direction. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership.
Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-management. Financial management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication and listening skills.
Computer skills. Delegation and development of others. Planning, organising
and execution. Ability to manage conflict. Language proficiency. Knowledge
management. Negotiation skills and Change management.
DUTIES : Provide GISc to support institutional decision making. Policy making and
institutional strategic guidance. Conduct Research. Project and Financial
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/199 : QUALITY ASSURANCE MANAGER REF NO: LDARD 13/7/2026 (X1 POST)
(Twelve months fixed contract)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10); plus 37% in lieu
CENTRE : Madzivhandila College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF Level 8 qualification in Public Administration
/ Public Management / Business Administration / Quality Assurance /
Agriculture or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of 6 years lecturing experience. A valid driver’s licence (with
the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Knowledge of policy formulation, interpretation and implementation.
Knowledge of all relevant legislative frameworks governing Education and
Training Institutions. Sound knowledge of quality assurance. Computer skills.
Good knowledge of the subject fields. Planning & Organising Skills. Formal
Training and Presentation skills. Relevant quality assurance certification.
DUTIES : Ensure quality planning is conducted. Ensure compliance with the
accreditation requirements linked to curriculum and staff development.
Coordinate all ATI committees and partnerships. Perform and oversee
administration and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/200 : CONTROL VETERINARY TECHNOLOGIST REF NO: LDARD 14/7/2026 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Makhado Laboratory
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate postgraduate NQF level 6 qualification in
Veterinary Technology or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as
recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 6 years relevant experience. Registration
with the South African Veterinary Council. A Valid driver's license (with the
exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Sound and in-depth Knowledge of relevant prescripts and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Computer skills. Quality
management skills. Managerial and supervisory skills.
164
DUTIES : Undertake more advanced Veterinary Laboratory Diagnostic testing.
Coordinate and supervise the activities of the Veterinary Technologists in the
Laboratory. Ensure that Veterinary Technologists populate data bases with the
latest information (e.g. LIMS) to provide national and provincial veterinary
statistics. Act as Quality Control Officer for the Laboratory. Keep up to date with
regard to the applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new
developments to be able to render an efficient and effective Veterinary
Diagnostic laboratory service. To perform all administrative and related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/201 : CONTROL AGRICULTURAL RESOURCE TECHNICIAN REF NO: LDARD
15/7/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mopani North
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate National Engineering Diploma (NQF Level 6)
qualification or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by
SAQA. Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa.
Minimum of 6 years appropriate experience. A Valid driver's license (with the
exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Knowledge in surveying and design of all engineering type of projects
(contours, waterways, stock watering systems, irrigation systems, subsurface
draining systems, water run off control, conservation farm planning and the
design of farm animal housing). Knowledge of spreadsheets, computerized
and/or farm planning. Good Labour relations. Good interpersonal skills.
Capacity building within communities. Determine the potential of soils for
irrigation.
DUTIES : Manage and control the planning and design of conservation structures in
compliance with environmental and conservation legislation. Co-ordination of
projects (including inter alia projects funded by Land Care and CASP). Manage
and control the prescribed administration of financial aid schemes (e.g. the soil
conservation subsidy scheme) with regard to the conservation of natural
resources and the implementation of norms and standards as prescribed by
the National Department of Agriculture. Manage and control extension services
on land care. Keep up to date with regard to the applicable prescripts, policies,
procedures, technologies and new developments to be able to render an
efficient and effective technical service. Perform administrative and related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT, Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or (015) 811 1189.
POST 24/202 : SENIOR AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIST: AGRO-PROCESSING VALUE
ADDITION SERVICES REF NO: LDARD 16/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate Hons degree qualification or equivalent
qualification with Economics and/or Agricultural Economics as major subjects
or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of 3 years’
relevant experience required at an Assistant Director level. A valid driver`s
license (with exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies,
and Skills: Computer skills (advanced). Statistical skills. Negotiation skills
(advanced). Knowledge of economic and financial (advanced) analytical
techniques. Communication/presentation skills (advanced).
DUTIES : Continuous in-depth study/research of developments/patterns/trends in a
specific agricultural environment. Undertake and oversee the analysis /
identification of economic questions / challenges in a specific environment /
situation (specific districts/areas, a specific industry, specific
events/circumstances) pertaining to legislation / strategy / policy / initiatives /
interventions. Undertake and oversee the application, adaptation and/or
development of models in order to reflect the current situation and/or
forecast/project possible scenarios. Undertake and oversee the compilation of
the final output e.g. reports, position papers, information documents, policy
documents, populated databases etc. Undertake and oversee the provision of
advice to internal & external stakeholders on the impact of forecasts for
165
decision-making, initiatives and/or interventions within a specific environment.
Undertake and oversee the development and evaluation of business plans.
Establish and maintain a network for liaison with economic/agricultural analysis
institutions. Perform administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/203 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RURAL DEVELOPMENT COORDINATION REF
NO: LDARD 17/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate postgraduate (NQF level 8) qualification in
Agriculture or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by
SAQA. Minimum of 2-3 years’ experience in Agriculture/Rural Development. A
Valid driver's license (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Sound and in-depth Knowledge of relevant
prescripts and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public
Service i.e Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations
Act, Public Finance Management Act. Experience in: Rural development
practices, principles, directives, legislations, etc. People management.
Assessment of agricultural land. Policy analysis and development.
Communication skills. Leadership skills. Map reading and interpretation.
DUTIES : Conduct integrated rural development initiatives. Conduct social facilitation and
participatory community development services. Coordinate land reform
projects development initiatives. Facilitate the training of state land and land
reform beneficiaries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/204 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RURAL DEVELOPMENT FACILITATION AND
SUPPORT SERVICES (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mopani District Ref No: LDARD 18/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Capricorn District Ref No: LDARD 19/7/2026 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate postgraduate NQF level 7 qualification in
Agriculture or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by
SAQA. Minimum of 3-5 years’ experience in Rural Development of which 3
years must be at Supervisory level. A Valid driver's license (with the exception
of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Extensive
knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Public Finance Management Act (Act 1 of 1999 as amended by
Act 29 of 1999), Division of Revenue Act, Land Redistribution for Agricultural
Development Policy, Land Reform Act, 1997 (Act 3 of 1997) Dora Act, Polices
and Strategies: APAP, RAAVC, Limpopo Development Plan. National Policy on
Comprehensive Producer Development Support. Communication skills. Client
orientation and customer focus. Knowledge Management. Service delivery
innovation. Change management. Financial Management for Non-Financial
Managers.
DUTIES : Coordinate agricultural development support programs. Coordinate social
facilitation and participatory community development services. Coordinate land
reform development initiatives. Promote knowledge transfer and skills
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT, Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or (015)
811 1189.
Capricorn District: Mr. Masera Tel No: (015) 632 8625, Mr. Mphahlele STG Tel
No: (015) 632 8600 or Ms. Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 632 8600.
POST 24/205 : LAND USE PLANNER REF NO: LDARD 20/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF Level 6 National Diploma qualification in
Land Use Planning, Agricultural Management (Soil Science, Pasture Science),
166
Urban and Regional Planning, Environmental Management or equivalent
appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3-5
years relevant experience in Land Care and Land Use environment. A valid
driver’s licence (with exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies, and Skills: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant
prescripts and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public
Service i.e Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations
Act, Public Finance Management Act, Conservation of Agricultural. Experience
of, and insight into legislation which impacts on Land Care and Land Use
Management (Resources Act (CARA), Spatial Planning and Land Use
Management Act (SPLUMA), National Environmental Management Act
(NEMA). Disaster Management Act. People Management. Financial
Management. Problem Solving. Planning & organizing. Time Management.
Policy analysis. Good Communication skills. Facilitation skills. Presentation
skills. Coordination skills.
DUTIES : Conduct and implement the assessment of agricultural land suitability, land
capability and spatial planning analysis. Implementation of agricultural land use
planning, management and compliance in line with applicable legislative
framework in agricultural land management Conservation of Agricultural
Resources Act (CARA), National Environmental Management Act (NEMA),
Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act (SPLUMA) and Preservation
and Development of Agricultural land Act (PDALA). Implementation of project
planning & goal setting. Coordinate stakeholders engagement.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele RS Tel No: (015) 632
7000.
POST 24/206 : SENIOR AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR/ SENIOR LECTURE-ANIMAL
PRODUCTION (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Tompi Seleka College Ref No: LDARD 21/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Madzivhandila College Ref No: LDARD 22/7/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate 4 year BSc. degree or equivalent appropriate
tertiary qualification as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of 6 years appropriate
experience. Registration with a South African Council Natural Scientific
Professions National professional body (SACNASP) or other applicable and
recognised statutory body is compulsory. A valid driver’s licence (with exception
of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Computer
skills. Good knowledge of the subject field. Supervisory and management
skills. Formal training and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Ensure that classes are conducted by supervisees. Develop and implement
the academic curriculum for the subject field. Conduct classes. Ensure that a
student affairs service is provided. Perform and oversee administrative and
related functions. Keep abreast of the applicable prescripts, policies,
procedures, technologies and new developments in the subject field.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/207 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ACADEMIC REGISTRAR AND HUMAN
RESOURCE SERVICES (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Tompi Seleka College Ref No: LDARD 23/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Madzivhandila College Ref No: LDARD 24/7/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a minimum relevant NQF level 6 in Human Resource
management, Public Administration/ Management qualification or equivalent
appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by SAQA. Successful
completion of PERSAL administration. A minimum of 3 years’ experience at a
supervisory level. A valid driver’s licence (with exception of people with
disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Knowledge of relevant
prescripts and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public
Service i.e Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations
Act, Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of PERSAL. Program and
project Management skills. Financial Management skills. Change Management
skills. Communication skills. Conflict Management skills. Report writing skills.
167
DUTIES : Facilitate human resource provisioning. Facilitate conditions of service.
Facilitate human resource development & transformation. Facilitate personnel
(HR) and general records services. Supervise subordinates and utilise
resources (human and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and
legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/208 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION AND KNOWLEDGE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDARD 25/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a an appropriate recognised (NQF 6) National Diploma / Degree
qualification in Information Studies / Management / Public management /
Administration or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by
SAQA. Successful completion of PERSAL administration. Minimum of 3-5
years’ experience in information and knowledge management and library. A
valid driver’s licence (with exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies, And Skills: Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant
prescripts and applications of information and knowledge management as well
as understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Thorough understanding of policy analysis.
DUTIES : Facilitate implementation of information and knowledge services. Facilitate the
management of information repository. Integrate departmental information.
Render library services. Supervise subordinates and utilise resources (human
and physical) in accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/209 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN AND ASSET MANAGEMENT REF
NO: LDARD 26/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification NQF 6 level in Supply Chain
Management, Purchasing Management, Procurement, Logistics or Financial
Management or equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of
3-5 years proven experience in Supply Chain Management at supervisory
level. A valid driver’s licence (with exception of persons with disabilities).
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Sound and in-depth knowledge of
relevant prescripts and applications of Supply Chain and Asset Management
as well as understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public
Service i.e.. Public Finance Management Act, Public Service Act, PPPFA,
Treasury Regulations, etc. Program and Project Management Skills, Financial
Management Skills, Communication Skills, Policy Analysing skill and Report
writing skills
DUTIES : Provide demand management services. Manage acquisition and purchasing
services. Manage asset management services. Manage transport services.
Render stores and warehousing services. Supervise subordinates and utilise
resources (Human and Physical) in accordance with relevant directives and
legislations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Masera TN Tel No: (015) 632 8625, Ms. Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 632 8600
or Mr. Mphahlele STG Tel No: (015) 632 8600.
POST 24/210 : AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIST REF NO: LDARD 27/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mopani West
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate Hons degree or equivalent qualification with
Economics and/or Agricultural Economics as major subjects or equivalent
appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA. Valid driver’s license (with
the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies, And
Skills: Computer skills (advanced). Statistical skills. Negotiation skills
168
(advanced). Knowledge of economic and financial (advanced) analytical
techniques. Communication/presentation skills (advanced).
DUTIES : Continuous in-depth study / research of developments / patterns / trends in a
specific agricultural environment. Analyse / identify economic questions /
challenges in a specific environment/situation (specific districts / areas, a
specific industry, specific events/circumstances) pertaining to legislation /
strategy / policy / initiatives / interventions. Undertake/conduct analysis, apply,
adapt and/or develop models based on the current situation to forecast/project
possible scenarios. Compile the final output e.g. reports, position papers,
information documents, policy documents, populated databases etc. Provide
advice to internal & external stakeholders on the impact of forecasts for
decision-making, initiatives and/or interventions within a specific environment.
Develop and evaluate business plans. Establish and maintain a network for
liaison with economic/agricultural analysis institutions. Perform administrative
and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or (015) 811 1189.
POST 24/211 : VETERINARY PUBLIC HEALTH OFFICER REF NO: LDARD 28/7/2026 (X4
POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF level 6 qualification in Environmental Health
/ Animal Health / Veterinary Public Health or equivalent appropriate tertiary
qualification as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of1-2 years appropriate
experience within Veterinary Public Health environment. Valid registration with
the relevant Health Professions Council for South Africa (HPCSA) / South
African Veterinary Council is compulsory. A valid driver’s licence (with the
exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Computer literate. Knowledge of Quality management system. Investigation
skills. Diagnostic skills. Communication skills. Report writing. Analytical skills.
Interpretation skills. Interpersonal Skills.
DUTIES : Conduct inspection of abattoir / slaughter facilities. Conduct veterinary public
health training and awareness. Conduct audits of slaughter facilities. Perform
administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/212 : VETERINARY TECHNOLOGIST REF NO: LDARD 29/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mokopane Laboratory
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an undergraduate National Diploma in Veterinary Technology or
equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by SAQA.
Registration with the South African Veterinary Council is recommended. No
experience required. Valid driver’s license (with the exception of people with
disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Computer skills. Proven
interpersonal, negotiation & communication skills (verbal & written). Time
management. Quality assurance, Reproduction, Parasitology, hygiene survey
and Serology.
DUTIES : Render a Veterinary Laboratory Testing service. Populate data bases (e.g.
LIMS) to provide veterinary statistics for national and international planning.
Keep up to date with regard to the applicable prescripts, policies, procedures,
technologies and new developments to be able to render an efficient and
effective Veterinary Diagnostic laboratory service. Promotion of a safe
laboratory environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/213 : AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR (X38 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Capricorn East Ref No: LDARD 30/7/2026 (X3 Posts)
Capricorn Northwestern Ref No: LDARD 31/7/2026 (X3 Posts)
Sekhukhune South Central Ref No: LDARD 32/7/2026 (X4 Posts)
169
Sekhukhune West Ref No: LDARD 33/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune East Ref No: LDARD 34/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Vhembe East Ref No: LDARD 35/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Vhembe West Ref No: LDARD 36/7/2026 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe Far North Ref No: LDARD 37/7/2026 (02 Posts)
Vhembe Central Ref No: LDARD 38/7/2026 (09 Posts)
Waterberg North Ref No: LDARD 39/7/2026 (01 Post)
Waterberg West Ref No: LDARD 40/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Waterberg South Central Ref No: LDARD 41/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Waterberg East Ref No: LDARD 42/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Mopani West Ref No: LDARD 43/7/2026 (X2 Posts)
Mopani East Ref No: LDARD 44/7/2026 (X2 Posts)
Mopani North Ref No: LDARD 45/7/2026 (X4 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF Level 8 qualification in Agriculture or
equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by SAQA.
Compulsory registration with a South African Council Natural Scientific
Professions National professional body (SACNASP) or other applicable and
recognised statutory body is compulsory. A valid driver’s licence (with exception
of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Extensive
knowledge of agricultural advisory. Knowledge of production planning and
management. Knowledge of Public Service Legislation. IDPS, PGDS and
CASP, extension norms and standards. Report writing skills, Computer skills,
Problem solving skills, Analytical skills, and ability to communicate with
stakeholders at all levels. Knowledge of new agricultural technology and
agricultural technical knowledge. Knowledge of project monitoring and
evaluation. Knowledge of planning and organising, Facilitation skills.
Networking skills and knowledge of other agricultural programmes, e.g. CASP,
Letsema, Extension Recovery Plan (ERP), Land care and Fetsa Tlala.
Language proficiency will be tested.
DUTIES : To promote sustainable development in the agricultural sector through the
application of the appropriate extension principles and methods. Provide
technical support for organised agriculture and other agricultural stakeholders
and assist in planning, advice, and aftercare support. Promote sustainable
production of agricultural products. Determine the research needs of the area.
Establish and enhance the relationship with clients (internal and external)
stakeholders. Provide continuous support to ensure sustained production and
quality improvement. Render scientific and technical advice to internal and
external clients to ensure sustainable development. Conduct farmers’ days,
demonstrations, and information days to the farming communities. Conduct
situational analysis to identify the real needs and facilitate the implementation
of best practices and technology. Empower and build capacity of producers
and commodity groups to ensure self-reliance. Provide advice on various
subjects like crop production. Establish networks and linkages with all
stakeholders, keep relevant databases up to date, such as famers’ databases.
Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports. Keep up to date regarding
applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, and advisory technology services.
Implement programmes such as CASP, Letsema, Land care.
ENQUIRIES : Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007.
Waterberg District: Ms. Kekana RM Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Mr. Nkoko KA
Tel No: (014) 717 1064/2523.
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or (015)
811 1189.
Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele
RS Tel No: (015) 632 7000.
Capricorn District: Mr. Masera Tel No: (015) 632 8625, Mr. Mphahlele STG Tel
No: (015) 632 8600 or Ms. Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 632 8600.
POST 24/214 : SENIOR LABOUR RELATIONS PRACTITIONER: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
REF NO: LDARD 46/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF 6 qualification in Labour relations or
equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of 1-2 years’ experience in labour relations field. A valid driver’s
licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
170
Competencies and Skills: Knowledge and understanding of legislative
frameworks, policies, Acts and regulations that governs public service.
Knowledge of Labour relations policies, practices and procedures. Knowledge
of PERSAL. Investigation skills. Strong communication skills. Report writing
skills. Problem analysis and analytical thinking. Investigation skills. Negotiation
skills. Presentation skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Handling of misconduct cases. Handling of employee grievances. Handle
disputes. Conduct workshop on labour relations matters. Providing labour
relations and advisory services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/215 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN AND ASSET
MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDARD 47/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF level 6 qualification in Supply Chain
Management / Assets Management, Logistics Management, Transport
Management or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by
SAQA. Minimum of 2-3 years’ experience in Transport Management, Stores
and Warehousing, Supply Chain and Asset Management environment. A valid
driver’s licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of relevant prescripts and applications of
supply chain and assets management as well as understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. People Management.
Financial Management. Problem Solving. Planning & organizing. Time
Management. Policy analysis. Good Communication skills. Facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the provision of asset management services. Facilitate transport
services. Render stores and warehousing services. Supervise subordinates
and utilise resources (human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele RS Tel No: (015) 632
7000.
POST 24/216 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO:
LDARD 48/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate undergraduate (NQF level 6) qualification in
Purchasing Management, Supply Chain Management and Logistics
Management or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by
SAQA. Minimum of 3 -5 years’ experience in Acquisition Management / Supply
Chain Management. A valid driver’s license (with exception of people with
disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of relevant
prescripts and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public
Service i.e Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations
Act, Public Finance Management Act. Understanding Procurement
Regulations, policies, Procurement strategies, Framework and Acts. People
Management. Financial Management. Problem Solving. Planning &
organizing. Time Management. Policy analysis. Good Communication skills.
Facilitation skills. Presentation skills. Coordination skills. Change Management
skills. Communication skills. Conflict Management skills. Presentation and
Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Advertise bids and price quotations. Facilitate bids evaluation meetings.
Conduct physical verification. Facilitate adjudication of bids and price
quotations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/217 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: SUPPLY CHAIN AND ASSET
MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDARD 49/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
171
CENTRE : Waterberg District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF level 6 qualification in Supply chain
management, Logistics management and Purchasing Management or
equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognized by SAQA. Minimum
of 2-3 years’ experience in supply chain and management. A valid driver’s
license (with exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies
and Skills: Knowledge of relevant prescripts and applications of supply chain
and assets management as well as understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. People Management. Financial Management.
Problem Solving. Planning & organizing. Time Management. Policy analysis.
Good Communication skills. Facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Provide demand management services. Provide acquisition management
services. Provide purchase management services. Supervise subordinates
and utilise resources (human and physical) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Kekana RM Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Mr. Nkoko KA Tel No: (014) 717
1064/2523.
POST 24/218 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE SERVICES
REF NO: LDARD 50/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate undergraduate (NQF level 6) qualification in
Human Resource Management, Public Management/ Administration or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA. PERSAL Training / Certificate.
Minimum of 2-3 years’ experience in Human Resource Management
environment. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Sound and in-depth
knowledge of relevant prescripts and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service i.e Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Public Finance Management Act, Pension
Law Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Experience of, and insight into
legislation which impacts on Human Resource Management. Proven extensive
experience in: -Human Management. Thorough understanding of policy
analysis. People Management. Financial Management. Problem Solving.
Planning & organizing. Time Management. Policy analysis and development.
Good Communication skills. Group dynamics. Diversity management.
Facilitation skills. Co-ordination skills. Leadership skills.
DUTIES : Provide human resource provisioning and utilisation. Provide conditions of
service. Provide human resource planning and information. Supervise
subordinates and utilise resources (human and physical) in accordance with
relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel No: (015) 963
2007.
POST 24/219 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: RESEARCH STATIONS REF NO:
LDARD 51/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mara Research Station
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an Appropriate undergraduate (NQF level 6) qualification in
National Diploma / Public Management /Administration / Human Resource
management or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of
3-5 years’ experience in administration / clerical. Knowledge, Competencies
and Skills: Knowledge of relevant prescripts and applications of supply chain
and assets management as well as understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. People Management. Financial Management.
Problem Solving. Planning & organizing. Time Management. Policy analysis.
Good Communication skills. Facilitation skills.
DUTIES : Render financial administration services. Handle office support services.
Handle information management services. Render human resource
management and development services. Provide transformation services.
Supervise subordinates and utilise resources (human and physical) in
accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
172
POST 24/220 : ARTISAN FOREMAN REF NO: LDARD 52/6/202 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R397 329 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a recognized trade certificate. Six years post qualification
experience as an Artisan. A valid driver’s licence (with the exception of people
with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Technical: Technical
analysis knowledge. Computer-aided applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Generic: Problem solving and analysis.
Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical skills. Creativity. Self-management.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication skills. Computer skills.
Planning, organizing and execution. Language proficiency. Listening skills.
Insight. Diversity Management. Conflict Management.
DUTIES : Design. (Manage) Supervise and produce designs according to client
specification and within limits of production capability. Production. Produce
objects with material and equipment according to job specification and
recognized standards. Quality assurance of produced objects. Maintenance.
Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipments and
facilities according to standards. Test repair equipment and/or facilities against
specifications. Service equipments and/or facilities according to schedule.
Quality assures serviced and maintained equipment and/or facilities. Perform
administrative and related function. Human and Capital Resource
Management. Maintain and advance expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/221 : GIS TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION) GRADE A REF NO: LDARD 53/7/2026
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R407 337 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a Diploma in GISc, Cartography or equivalent qualification as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3-year post qualification GISc Technician
experience. Compulsory registration with PLATO. A valid driver’s licence (with
the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Technical: Understanding of GIS applications and spatial data queries. Theory,
principles, and practices of GIS standards. Knowledge and capabilities of
different GIS software’s. Understanding of technologies such as GPS,
Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, Projections, Principles of Cartography.
Generic: Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical
skills. Creativity. Self-management. Customer service. Communication and
interpersonal skills. Advanced Computer skills. Planning, organising and
execution. Language Proficiency. Project Management.
DUTIES : To support the management of GIS information in the SIM component and in
specific departmental GIS projects. To support GIS end-users. GIS incident
response. To support administrative procedures in the SIM component.
Contribute to the good management of the directorate. Perform technical GISc
activities. Maintain GIS unit Effectiveness. People management. Functional
requirement analysis.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/222 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HR TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: LDARD 54/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an NQF Level 6 appropriated tertiary qualification in Human
Resource Development / Human Resource Management or relevant
equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 1-2 years’
Experience in Human Resource Development/ Management. Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Deep knowledge of Human Resource Training and
Development. Knowledge of public service Act, policies and procedures.
Knowledge of public Finance management. Knowledge of Skill development
173
Act. Financial solving. Planning & organizing. Time management. Policy
analysis. Good communication skills. Facilitation skills. Co-ordination skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the skills programme. Implement Learnership/RPL, internships,
experiential and AET programs. Administer bursaries. Provide induction and
orientation program.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/223 : REGISTRY CLERK (SUPERVISOR) REF NO: LDARD 55/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an NQF Level 6 appropriated qualification in Records
Management/ Public Management/ Administration/ Archival Studies/ Library
and Information Management or equivalent qualification as recognized by
SAQA. Minimum of 3 – 5 years’ experience required. A valid driver’s licence
(with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies And
Skills: Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture
data, and operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and
retrieval procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the
work in registry. Job Knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations.
Flexibility. Teamwork. Computer. Planning and organisation. Language. Good
verbal and written communication skill.
DUTIES : Supervise and provide registry counter services. Supervise the handling of
incoming and outgoing correspondence. Supervise and render an effective
filing and record management service. Supervise the operation and operate
office machines in relation to the registry function. Supervise the processing
and process documents for archiving and/disposal. Supervise employees to
ensure sound records management.
ENQUIRIES : TMs Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/224 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FACILITIES AND RECORD MANAGEMENT
REF NO: LDARD 56/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Capricorn District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification NQF 6 level in Public Management/
Administration/Facilities Management or equivalent qualification as recognized
by SAQA. A minimum of 2-3 years proven experience in Facilities
management. A valid driver’s licence (with exception of persons with
disabilities). Knowledge, Skills and Competencies: Extensive knowledge and
understanding of Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, PFMA. Ability
to source and analyse information. Organisational Communication
Effectiveness. Problem Analysis. Self-Management. Budgeting and Financial
Management. Customer Focus and Responsiveness. Developing Others.
Planning and Organising skills. Problem Solving and Decision-Making. Project
Management. Team Leadership.
DUTIES : To provide office accommodation. Facilitate office automation/ equipment.
Facilitate maintenance services. Facilitate cleaning services. Administer
switchboard operations. Processing of payments of contractual obligations
Supervise subordinates and utilise resources (Human and Physical) in
accordance with relevant directives and legislations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Masera TN Tel No: (015) 632 8625, Ms. Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 632 8600
or Mr. Mphahlele STG Tel No: (015) 632 8600.
POST 24/225 : FARM MANAGER REF NO: LDARD 57/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Madzivhandila College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate (NQF level 6) qualification in Farm Management
or relevant equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 3
Months appropriate experience required. Knowledge, Competencies And
Skills: Computer skills. Basic supervisory skills. Knowledge of relevant
174
prescripts and applications of supply chain and assets management as well as
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
People Management. Financial Management. Problem Solving. Planning &
organizing. Time Management. Good Communication skills. Facilitation skills.
Ability to work in a highly pressured environment.
DUTIES : Manage natural resources. Manage the day-to-day agricultural activities.
Implement new infrastructure projects and maintain existing infrastructure eg.
farm fences, roads, irrigation systems, buildings, animal housing, water supply
systems, quarantine facilities, implements, tractors, etc. in support of research
/ training and / or general farm activities. Provide support for research/training
purposes. Perform all administrative and related functions. Keep up to date
with regard to the applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and
new developments in the subject field.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/226 : AGRICULTURAL RESOURCE TECHNICIAN (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani East Ref No: LDARD 58/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Capricorn East Ref No: LDARD 59/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Waterberg East Ref No: LDARD 60/7/2026 (X2 Posts)
Mopani North Ref No: LDARD 61/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune East Ref No: LDARD 62/7/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an Appropriate (NQF level 6) qualification in Engineering/
Environmental Sciences / Agricultural Sciences/ Land Use Planning/
Agricultural Management or relevant equivalent qualification as recognized by
SAQA. Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa.
A valid driver’s licence (with the exception of people with disabilities).
Knowledge, Competencies, and Skills: Conservation of Agricultural Resources
Act (CARA). Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act (SPLUMA).
National Environmental Management Act (NEMA). Disaster Management Act.
Climate Change and sustainable agricultural principles. Planning & organizing.
Time Management. Technical report writing. Communication and facilitation
skills. Coordination skills. Data collection and analysis. Stakeholder
engagement. Monitoring and evaluation.
DUTIES : Provide technical support in integrated sustainable land use planning in
accordance with CARA and SALA/ PDALA. Implement landcare programme.
Facilitate and implement soil conservation works. Provide administration,
reporting and stakeholder coordination.
ENQUIRIES : Waterberg District: Ms. Kekana RM Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Mr. Nkoko KA
Tel No: (014) 717 1064/2523.
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or (015)
811 1189
Capricorn District: Mr. Masera Tel No: (015) 632 8625, Mr. Mphahlele STG Tel
No: (015) 632 8600 or Ms. Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 632 8600.
POST 24/227 : LABORATORY TECHNICIAN REF NO: LDARD 63/7/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Tompi Seleka College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF level 6 qualification or equivalent
appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by SAQA. A valid driver’s
licence (with the exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge,
Competencies, and Skills: Excellent interpersonal, communication and
negotiation skills. Time management. Report writing skills. Computer skills.
Analytical Skills. Attention to details.
DUTIES : Render an analytical laboratory service. Analyze samples (soil, feed, plant,
water). Assist with the development of new analytical procedures. Perform all
administrative and related functions. Keep up to date with regard to the
applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new
developments to be able to render an efficient and effective service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
175
POST 24/228 : LABORATORY TECHNICIAN: WET AND PHYSICAL REF NO: LDARD
64/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Madzivhandila College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF level 6 qualification or equivalent
appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by SAQA. A valid driver’s
licence (with exception of people with disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies,
And Skills: Excellent interpersonal, communication and negotiation skills. Time
management. Report writing skills. Computer skills. Analytical Skills. Attention
to details.
DUTIES : Render an analytical laboratory service. Analyze samples (soil, feed, plant,
water). Assist with the development of new analytical procedures. Perform all
administrative and related functions. Keep up to date with regard to the
applicable prescripts, policies, procedures, technologies and new
developments to be able to render an efficient and effective service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/229 : LABORATORY ANALYST REF NO: LDARD 65/6/2025 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Tompi Seleka College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an appropriate NQF level 6 qualification in Bsc in Agriculture
Soil Science or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as recognised by
SAQA. A valid driver’s licence (with the exception of people with disabilities).
Knowledge, Competencies, and Skills: Knowledge of relevant prescripts and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service i.e
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Public
Finance Management Act. Knowledge of Policies governing Students.
Knowledge of Act on Higher Education. Quality control. ISO-17025 standards.
Good laboratory practice. Project management. Computer skills. Supervisory
and management skills. Formal training and presentation skills. Program and
project Management skills. Change Management skills. Communication skills.
Conflict Management skills. Report writing skills. Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Analyze samples (soil, feed, plant, water). Assist with the development of new
analytical procedures. Perform all administrative and related functions. Provide
technical support and stakeholder assistance service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/230 : FARM FOREMAN (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Towoomba Research Station Ref No: LDARD 66/7/2026 (X1 Post)
: Mara Research Station Ref No: LDARD 67/7/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Basic literacy and numeracy (ABET level 3 – Grade 7) or an equivalent
appropriate qualification as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 6 years’
experience required. A valid driver’s licence (with the exception of people with
disabilities). Knowledge, Competencies and Skill: Excellent interpersonal,
communication and negotiation skills. Time management. Report writing skills.
Computer skills. Analytical Skills. Attention to details.
DUTIES : Oversee the execution of routine activities in respect of crop production.
Oversee the execution of routine activities in respect of livestock. Oversee the
execution of general routine activities. Oversee the execution of general routine
activities in respect of infrastructure. Perform all administrative and related
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/231 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT AND
DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM REF NO: LDARD 68/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
176
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate qualification NQF Level 4 as recognized
by SAQA. Exposure in Performance Management and Development System
and related field will be an added advantage. Knowledge, Competencies and
Skill: Knowledge of registry duties. Ability to capture data. Ability to operate
computer. Understanding of legislative framework governing the Public
Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Computer. Planning.
Language. Good verbal and written communication skills. Job knowledge.
Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility. Teamwork.
DUTIES : Facilitate PMDS workshops. Receive and record the submission of PMDS
documents. Implement PMDS outcomes. Handle competency assessment for
SMS members. Handling grade progression for Non-OSD and OSD
employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/232 : REGISTRY CLERK: GENERAL RECORDS REF NO: LDARD 69/7/2026 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate qualification NQF Level 4 as recognized
by SAQA. Certificate / Qualification in Public Management/ Administration and
Records Management or related fields will be an added advantage. Exposure
in the field will be an added advantage. Knowledge, Competencies and Skill:
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
and operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval
procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the work in
registry. Job Knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility.
Teamwork. Computer. Planning and organisation. Language. Good verbal and
written communication skill.
DUTIES : Provide registry services. Provide registry counter services. Handle incoming
and outgoing correspondence. Render an effective filing and record
management service. Operate office machines in relation to the registry
function. Process documents for archiving and/ disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/233 : REGISTRY CLERK (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Capricorn District Ref No: LDARD 70/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District Ref No: LDARD 71/7/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate qualification NQF Level 4 as recognized
by SAQA. Certificate / Qualification in Public Management/ Administration and
Records Management or related fields will be an added advantage. Exposure
in the field will be an added advantage. Knowledge, Competencies and Skill:
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
and operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval
procedures in terms of the working environment. Understanding of the work in
registry. Job Knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility.
Teamwork. Computer. Planning and organisation. Language. Good verbal and
written communication skill.
DUTIES : Provide registry services. Provide registry counter services. Handle incoming
and outgoing correspondence. Render an effective filing and record
management service. Operate office machines in relation to the registry
function. Process documents for archiving and/ disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Capricorn District: Mr. Masera Tel No: (015) 632 8625, Mr. Mphahlele STG Tel
No: (015) 632 8600 or Ms. Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 632 8600.
Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele
RS Tel No: (015) 632 7000.
177
POST 24/234 : FINANCE CLERK: EXPENDITURE REF NO: LDARD 72/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate qualification NQF Level 4 as recognized
by SAQA. Certificate / Qualification in Financial Management or related fields
will be an added advantage. Exposure in the field will be an added advantage.
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate
financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial
legislations, procedures and Treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR,
PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems
(PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc.). Job Knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal
relations. Flexibility. Teamwork. Accuracy. Aptitude of figures. Computer
operating skills. Planning and organisation. Language. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Basic Numeracy skills. Ability to perform routine tasks.
Ability to operate office equipment.
DUTIES : Render Financial Accounting transactions. Perform Salary Administration
support services. Perform Bookkeeping support services. Render a budget
support service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/235 : FINANCE CLERK: FINANCIAL AND MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Vhembe District Ref No: LDARD 73/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Seleka College Ref No: LDARD 74/7/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate qualification NQF Level 4 as recognized
by SAQA. Certificate / Qualification in Financial Management or related fields
will be an added advantage. Exposure in the field will be an added advantage.
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate
financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial
legislations, procedures and Treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR,
PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems
(PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc.). Job Knowledge. Communication. Interpersonal
relations. Flexibility. Teamwork. Accuracy. Aptitude of figures. Computer
operating skills. Planning and organisation. Language. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Basic Numeracy skills. Ability to perform routine tasks.
Ability to operate office equipment.
DUTIES : Render Financial Accounting transactions. Perform Salary Administration
support services. Perform Bookkeeping support services. Render a budget
support service.
ENQUIRIES : Tompi Seleka College: Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi
PP Tel No: (015) 294 3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms.
Kgobe MA Tel No: (015) 294 3347.
Vhembe District: Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or
Rathogwa MM Tel No: (015) 963 2007
POST 24/236 : DRIVER/MESSENGER (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Capricorn South Ref No: LDARD 75/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Vhembe Far North Ref No: LDARD 76/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District Ref No: LDARD 77/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Mara Research Station Ref No: LDARD 78/7/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA.
Minimum of 7-12-months relevant experience. A valid driver’s license (with the
exception of people with disabilities) as well as a PDP. Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of the procedures to operate the motor
vehicle e.g. procedures to obtain trip authorities, complete the logbooks of the
motor vehicle, to obtain consumables (e.g. petrol) and obtain basic services
(e.g. fixing a flat tyre). Knowledge of prescripts for the correct Utilisation of the
motor vehicle. Knowledge of the procedures to perform messenger functions
178
and routine office support functions. Interpersonal skills. Driving skills. Time
management skills. Customer care skills. Communication skills.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium motor vehicles. Facilitate maintenance on the allocated
vehicle. Render a general support function. Collect and deliver documents.
ENQUIRIES : Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007
Waterberg District: Ms. Kekana RM Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Mr. Nkoko KA
Tel No: (014) 717 1064/2523.
Mara Research Station: Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi
PP Tel No: (015) 294 3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms.
Kgobe MA Tel No: (015) 294 3347.
Capricorn District: Mr. Masera Tel No: (015) 632 8625, Mr. Mphahlele STG Tel
No: (015) 632 8600 or Ms. Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 632 8600.
POST 24/237 : DRIVER/MESSENGER REF NO: LDARD 79/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA.
Minimum of 7-12 months relevant experience. A valid driver’s license Code 14
as well as a Professional Driving Permit (PDP). Knowledge, Competencies and
Skills: Knowledge of the procedures to operate the motor vehicle e.g.
procedures to obtain trip authorities, complete the logbooks of the motor
vehicle, to obtain consumables (e.g. petrol) and obtain basic services (e.g.
fixing a flat tyre). Knowledge of prescripts for the correct Utilisation of the motor
vehicle. Knowledge of the procedures to perform messenger functions and
routine office support functions. Interpersonal skills. Driving skills. Time
management skills. Customer care skills. Communication skills.
DUTIES : Drive light and medium motor vehicles. Facilitate maintenance on the allocated
vehicle. Render a general support function. Collect and deliver documents.
ENQUIRIES Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/238 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: LDARD 80/7/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Head Office: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA.
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Clerical and administrative procedures.
Basic data capturing and record keeping principles. Public Service prescripts
relevant to administration. Basic computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
databases). Basic knowledge of EPWP reporting requirements will be an
advantage. Attention to detail and ability to work with numerical information.
Information Systems and Computer Knowledge. Records and Audit Readiness
Knowledge. Data capturing and verification. Record management.
Communication and teamwork. Planning and organising own work.
Administrative and Data Skills. Computer and Office Skills. Planning and
Organising Skills. Communication Skills.
DUTIES : Provide data capturing and updating. Provide data verification and quality
control. Provide EPWP data capturing and compliance support. Provide
general administrative support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/239 : SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Towoomba Research Station Ref No: LDARD 81/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Capricorn East Ref No: LDARD 82/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Vhembe West Ref No: LDARD 83/7/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 qualification or equivalent appropriate tertiary qualification as
recognised by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Able to operate
switchboard machines. Able to handle confidential information. Able to read
and write. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of Batho
Pele Principle. Operating switchboard and computer.
179
DUTIES : Operating switchboard. Maintenance of minor fault on switchboard.
Switchboard Record management. Coordinate control of expenditure for
allocated pin codes. Writing skills. computer Sills. Reading and Analytical skills.
ENQUIRIES : Towoomba Research Station: Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms.
Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294 3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235
or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015) 294 3347.
Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 / Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 9632007
Capricorn District: Mr. Masera Tel No: (015) 632 8625, Mr. Mphahlele STG Tel
No: (015) 632 8600 or Ms. Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 632 8600.
POST 24/240 : LABORATORY ASSISTANT (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Mokopane Laboratory Ref No: LDARD 84/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Makhado Laboratory Ref No: LDARD 85/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Lephalale Laboratory Ref No: LDARD 86/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Tompi Seleka College Ref No: LDARD 87/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Thulamela Ref No: LDARD 88/6/2025 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with science and maths as recommendation or an equivalent
appropriate qualification NQF Level 4 as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge,
Competencies and Skills: Ability to read and write. Interpersonal skills,
communication skills, Time management, conflict management. Ability to
analyze data.
DUTIES : Prepare samples for the determination of i.e. chemical residues, pH, EC,
mycology etc. Perform routine analysis of samples under
mentorship/supervision of senior personnel. Perform basic maintenance on
selected equipment and instrumentation. Report all faulty equipment and
instrumentation. Maintain tidiness of laboratories, clean/sterilize glassware and
equipment. Perform basic maintenance and control functions of animal
production stock. Perform administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/241 : AUXILIARY SERVICES OFFICER REF NO: LDARD 89/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Tompi Seleka College
REQUIREMENTS : Basic literacy and numeracy (ABET level 4) as recognised by SAQA.
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Basic numeracy skills, literacy, operating
equipment skills. Basic Computer Literacy skills.
DUTIES : Operate specialised machinery and/or construct facilities in support of general
farm operations. Perform general maintenance activities in respect of research
subjects (animals/plants). Implement placement of students for farm practical.
Perform administrative tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/242 : ANIMAL HEALTH ASSISTANT (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Mopani North Ref No: LDARD 90/7/2026 (X3 Posts)
Mopani East Ref No: LDARD 91/7/2026 (X2 Posts)
Mopani West Ref No: LDARD 92/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Capricorn Northwestern Ref No: LDARD 93/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Capricorn East Ref No: LDARD 94/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune South Central Ref No: LDARD 95/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune West Ref No: LDARD 96/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Vhembe North Ref No: LDARD 97/7/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent appropriate NQF Level 4 qualification as recognized by
SAQA. A valid driver’s license (with the exception of people with disabilities).
Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of Animal Health
methodology. Communication skills with clients and farmers. Resource
utilization. Basic reporting. Basic public speaking.
180
DUTIES : Assist in planning and implementing disease control measures. Assist in
rendering a support service with regard to animal disease control, reproduction
and production advancement, sample collection and law enforcement. Assist
in the provision of extension services on animal health to animal owners.
Perform administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007.
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or Tel
No: (015) (015) 811 1189.
Sekhukhune District: Ms. Laka MA Tel No: (015) 632 7000 or Ms. Mphahlele
RS Tel No: (015) 632 7000.
Capricorn District: Mr. Masera Tel No: (015) 632 8625, Mr. Mphahlele STG Tel
No: (015) 632 8600 or Ms. Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 632 8600.
POST 24/243 : RED LINE SUPERVISOR (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Mopani North Ref No: LDARD 98/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Vhembe Central Ref No: LDARD 99/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Vhembe East Ref No: LDARD 100/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Vhembe Far North Ref No: LDARD 101/7/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : STD. 9 or ABET level 4. Minimum of 2 years’ experience as Redline gate Guard
or Fence Patroller. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of legislative, Acts and policies that governs Public Service.
Planning skills. Communication skills. Supervisory skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and render control over movement of cloven hooved animals.
Supervise and render conduct of fence patrol. Supervise and provide control
over quarantined animals. Supervise and upkeep records. Supervise human
resources / staff.
ENQUIRIES : Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007.
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or (015)
811 1189
POST 24/244 : LIBRARY ASSISTANT REF NO: LDARD 102/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Tompi Seleka College
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or an equivalent appropriate NQF Level 4 qualification as recognised
by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills: Knowledge of Library and
information science matters; Prescripts and legislation; Procedures and
processes; Departmental financial manuals; Public Finance Management Act
and Departmental policy and strategy. Skills and attributes: Organising,
Problem solving, Customer care, Good interpersonal relations, Creative
thinking, Computer literacy e.g Microsoft Office and internet, Numeracy, Ability
to work under pressure, Language proficiency, Communication and Analytic
thinking.
DUTIES : Handle the library administrative and support services and information
services. Maintain the library collection. Handle administrative support
services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/245 : WATER PUMP OPERATOR REF NO: LDARD 103/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Madzivhandila College
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate)/ABET/AET or equivalent appropriate
qualification as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of 5 years driving and operating
specialized equipment experience. Valid driver’s license Code EC and
operating certificate (PDP). Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Driving and
operation of earth moving and non-earth moving equipment. Physical
inspection and interpret instructions for proper use of all controls for safe
operations of vehicles. Fleet and equipment management procedures.
Interpret and follow operating manuals, maintenance manuals and service
charts. Driving and machinery operation. Basic mechanical troubleshooting.
181
Record keeping and reporting. Time management and teamwork. Good
eyesight. Teamwork. Good communication. Ability to read and write.
DUTIES : Operate specialised equipment and machinery. Render driving and
transportation services. Conduct equipment inspection, maintenance, and
reporting. Provide safety and administration support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/246 : HANDYMAN (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Waterberg District Ref No: LDARD 104/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Mopani District Ref No: LDARD 105/7/2026 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District Ref No: LDARD 106/7/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : ABET/ AET Level 04 or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by
SAQA. Minimum of 0-6 months experienced required. knowledge,
competencies, and skills: Knowledge of maintenance tools and equipment.
Safety regulations. Communication skills. Good interpersonal relation and
knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Buildings and related farm infrastructure
maintenance experience and knowledge of various types of farm infrastructure
and maintenance tools will be an added advantage. Driver`s licence will be an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Maintenance of office buildings and furniture. Conduct regular building
inspections. Maintenance of office equipment. Safekeeping of maintenance
tools and supplies. Report defects.
ENQUIRIES : Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007.
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or (015)
811 1189
Capricorn District: Ms. Sebatjane LD Tel No: (015) 632 8609 or Ms. Moeti M
Tel No: (015) 632 8619
Waterberg District: Ms. Kekana RM Tel No: (014) 717 4949 or Mr. Nkoko KA
Tel No: (014) 717 1064/2523.
POST 24/247 : TRACTOR DRIVER REF NO: LDARD 107/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Towoomba Research Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Basic education (literacy and numeracy - ABET level 2) or equivalent
appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA. A valid driver’s License Code
EC1 with PDP (with exception of people with disabilities). A minimum of 1 Year
appropriate experience. Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Knowledge of
Agricultural Equipment. Ability to Operate the Tractor. Basic diesel mechanic
skills. Water/Diesel Engine maintenance skills. Knowledge of various types of
farm equipment. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Discing, planting, and
harvesting of crop fields. Driving skills.
DUTIES : Operate a tractor with various implements (such as ploughs, Rippers, planters,
crop sprayers etc.) attached to assist with the physical execution of various
general farming activities. Perform vehicle maintenance and administrative
support activities. Operate a specialised machinery (such as harvesters, drilling
equipment, excavators etc.).
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/248 : FARM AID (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE Tompi Seleka College Ref No: LDARD 108/7/2026 (X2 Posts)
Madzivhandila College Ref No: LDARD 109/7/2026 (X2 Posts)
Mara Research Centre Ref No: LDARD 110/7/2026 (X2 Posts)
Towoomba Research Centre Ref No: LDARD 111/7/2026 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Basic literacy and numeracy (ABET level 2) or equivalent appropriate
qualification as recognised by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies and Skills:
Basic literacy and numeracy.
182
DUTIES : Perform routine activities in respect of crop production. Perform routine
activities in respect of livestock. Perform general routine activities. Perform
general routine activities in respect of infrastructure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/249 : GENERAL WORKER (REDLINE GATE/ GUARD/FENCE PATROLER (X16
POSTS
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Vhembe Far North Ref No: LDARD 112/7/2026 (X5 Posts)
Vhembe Central Ref No: LDARD 113/7/2026 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe East Ref No: LDARD 114/7/2026 (X7 Posts)
Mopani North Ref No: LDARD 115/7/2026 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Basic literacy and numeracy (ABET level 2) or equivalent appropriate
qualification as recognised by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills:
Knowledge and understanding of legislative, Acts and policies that governs
Public Service. Planning skills. Communication skills. Supervisory skills.
DUTIES : Control over movement of cloven hooved animals. Conduct fence patrol.
Control over quarantined animals. Keep records.
ENQUIRIES : Vhembe District: Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel
No: (015) 963 2007
Mopani District: Ms. Malatji MA and Matlou MT Tel No: (015) 811 9837 or (015)
811 1189
POST 24/250 : GROUNDSMAN: FARM MANAGEMENT REF NO: LDARD 116/7/2026 (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Towoomba Research Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Basic education (literacy and numeracy - ABET / AET level 2) or equivalent
appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA. Knowledge, Competencies,
And Skills: Able to read and write; Knowledge of cleaning services;
Communication skills; Good interpersonal relations; Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Perform routine activities in respect of grounds. Perform general routine
activities in respect of infrastructure. Perform general activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Modiba MM Tel No: (015) 294 3170, Ms. Mothupi PP Tel No: (015) 294
3100, Ms. Mothapo RL Tel No: (015) 294 3235 or Ms. Kgobe MA Tel No: (015)
294 3347.
POST 24/251 : GENERAL WORKER REF NO: LDARD 117/7/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Vhembe Far North
REQUIREMENTS : ABET/AET or equivalent appropriate qualification as recognised by SAQA.
Knowledge, Competencies, And Skills: Basic literacy and numeracy. Able to
read and write. Knowledge of cleaning procedures and gardening principles.
Ability to operate basic garden equipment and machinery. Knowledge of
maintenance of relevant equipment. Good interpersonal relations Be able to
work in a team. Be able to perform manual work. Show commitment and loyalty.
Must be punctual, productive and show good behaviour towards customers
Communication skills.
DUTIES : Perform general assistant work. Maintain premises and surroundings.
Maintenance and safekeeping of gardening equipment. Moving furniture and
equipment as required. Removing garbage and empty boxes. Assist in
receiving stock and goods. Reporting losses/damage to equipment. Loading
and offloading of goods. Cleaning of government vehicles.
ENQUIRIES : Mammburu TD Tel No: (015) 963 2005 or Rathogwa MM Tel No: (015) 963
2007
183
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant references `applications should be forwarded to the
relevant District:
Capricorn North: The District Director Capricorn North Education District
Private Bag X9711, Polokwane, 0700. Cnr Blaauwberg & Yster Street
Ladanna, Polokwane.
Capricorn South: The District Director Capricorn South Education District
Private Bag X 03cChueniespoort, 0745, Old Parliament Complex,
Lebowakgomo.
Mogalakwena: Education District: The District Director Private Bag X601
Mahwelereng, 0626. 805 Rufus Seakamela Street, Mahwelereng, 0626.
Mopani East: Education District, Private Bag X578, Giyani, 0826. Old
Parliament Building, Giyani.
Mopani West: The District Director Mopani West Education District, Private
Bag X4032, Tzaneen, 0850. 27 Peace Street, Prosperitas Building, Tzaneen,
0850.
Sekhukhune East The Acting District Director Sekhukhune East Education
District Private Bag X9041, Burgersfort, 1150. 83 Aloe Street Stand No 2314,
Ext 4 Aloeridge West. Burgersfort 1150. The District Director
Sekhukhune South: Education District The District Director Private Bag X70,
Lebowakgomo, 0737. Old Parliament Complex, Lebowakgomo.
Vhembe East: The Acting District Director Vhembe East Education District
Private Bag X2250, Sibasa, 0970. Makwarela Old Parliament Building.
Vhembe West: The District Director Vhembe West Education District, Private
Bag X2250, Sibasa, 0970. Block D Old Parliament Building, Thohoyandou.
Waterberg: The Acting District Director Waterberg Education District, Private
Bag X1040, Modimolle, 051084. Limpopo Street NTK Building, Modimolle,
0510.
Applications submitted via e-Recruitment system through the link a
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026 @ 14 H00 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed
copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e. effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified If an applicant wishes
to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing. Under no circumstances
will Photostat copies or faxed copies of application documents be accepted.
The successful candidates will be subjected to Personnel Suitability Checks
(criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset record checks and qualification
and employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or
feedback within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated,
receipt of applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job
description(s) please contact the person indicated in the post details. The
contents of the advertised post will also be posted on the following websites
www.limpopo.gov.za/ www.edu.gov.za / www.dpsa.gov.za. The Department
reserves the right not to make any appointment to the posts advertised. The
employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the
Department. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
184
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/252 : BRAILIST (X11 POSTS)
Directorate: Special Schools and Inclusive Education
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Letaba Special School, Mopani West Ref No: LDoE 582/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Rivoni School for the Blind, Vhembe West Ref No: LDoE 583/06/2026 (X2
Posts)
Bosele School for the Blind, Sekhukhune South Ref No: LDoE 584/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Siloe School for the Blind, Sekhukhune South Ref No: LDoE 585/06/2026 (X3
Posts)
Setotolwane LSEN School, Capricorn South Ref No: LDoE 586/06/2026 (X2
Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or Equivalent A recognized certificate in Braille Grade 1 & 2 will be
an added advantage. Knowledge of Braille Mathematics will be an added
advantage Functional computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Outlook and
PowerPoint) will be an added advantage. Competencies: Good communication
skills, Good Customer Care, Time Management, Group dynamics, working
under pressure, Diversity Management, Change and knowledge management.
DUTIES : Participate in a designated, testing braille program. Transcribe materials
including books, workbooks, testing material and classroom material from
ordinary print to Braille Train learners on assistive devices including
Refreshable Braille machine, magnifying devices etc.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/253 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK, CONDITIONS OF SERVICES (X12 POSTS)
Branch: Corporate Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Vhembe West District, Ref No: LDOE 131/06/2026
Capricorn North District Ref No: LDOE 132/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Mopani East District Ref No: LDOE 133/06/2026
Sekhukhune East Ref No: LDOE 134/06/2026 (X3Posts)
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDOE 135/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric Certificate. A qualification/s in Public Administration/Human
Resource Management/Public Management will be an added advantage.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Service regulations, policies and
legislations. Report writing. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
Good organizing skills. Functional computer literacy (Ms word, PowerPoint,
Excel and Outlook)
DUTIES : Provide personnel administration clerical support services. Administer
conditions of service and employee benefits for Employment of Educators and
Public Service Acts staff. Administer termination of service of Employment of
Educators and Public Service Acts staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921
POST 24/254 : HUMAM RESOURCE CLERK, HUMAN RESOURCE PROVISIONING (X8
POSTS)
Branch Corporate Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE Vhembe West District Ref No: LDOE 136/06/2026
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDOE 137/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Capricorn North District Ref No: LDOE 138/06/2026
Mopani East District Ref No: LDOE 139/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Sekhukhune East Ref No: LDOE 140/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric Certificate A qualification/s in Public Administration/Human
Resource Management/Public Management will be an added advantage.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Service regulations, policies and
legislations. Report writing. Good communication skills (verbal and written).
185
Good organizing skills. Functional computer literacy (Ms word, PowerPoint,
Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide personnel administration clerical support services. Administer human
Resources provisioning services for Employment of Educators and Public
Service Acts staff. Facilitate recruitment process Facilitate transfers and
translations. Facilitate secondments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/255 : REGISTRY CLERK (X9 POSTS)
Branch: Records Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Vhembe East District Ref No: LDOE 141/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Capricorn North District Ref No: LDOE 142/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Mopani East District Ref No: LDOE 143/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDOE 144/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric Certificate A qualification in Public Administration/Human
Resource Management/Public Management/Archives will be an added
advantage. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of Public Service regulations,
policies and legislations. Report writing. Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Good organizing skills. Functional computer literacy (Ms word,
PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide records management/registry services. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Render an effective filing and record management service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/256 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: PURCHASES POSTS REF NO:
LDOE 145/06/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Acquisition, Purchases & Stores
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Vhembe West District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric Certificate A qualification in the Finance/SCM field will be an
added advantage. Knowledge and Skills: Data capturing. Collecting statistics.
Knowledge of SCM regulations, policies and legislation. Report writing. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Good organizing skills. Functional
computer literacy (Ms word, PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Render purchases management clerical support. Render purchases
management services. Render stores services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/257 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT
(X5 POSTS)
Branch: Acquisition, Purchases & Stores
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE Mopani West District Ref No: LDOE 146/06/2026
Mopani East District Ref No: LDOE 147/06/2026
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDOE 148/06/2026
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDOE 149/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric Certificate A qualification in the Finance/SCM field will be an
added advantage. Knowledge and Skills: Data capturing. Collecting statistics.
Knowledge of SCM regulations, policies and legislations. Report writing. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Good organizing skills. Functional
computer literacy (Ms word, PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide secretariat or logistical support during the bid consideration and
contracts conclusion processes. Write bid invitations. Request and receive
quotations. Place orders. Issue And Receive Bid Documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
186
POST 24/258 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: ASSET MANAGEMENT SERVICES (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Assets & Fleet Management Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDOE 150/06/2026
Mopani East District Ref No: LDOE 151/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric. A qualification in Finance/SCM will be an added advantage.
Knowledge and Skills: Data capturing. Collecting statistics. Knowledge of SCM
regulations, policies and legislations. Report writing. Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Good organizing skills. Functional computer literacy
(Ms word, PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Allocate assets as per purchasing request. Maintain and update the fixed asset
register. Conduct asset verification in line with asset management policy and
procedures. Render disposal service of assets for the Fund.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/259 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: FLEET MANAGEMENT SERVICES (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Assets & Fleet Management Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Mopani West District Ref No: LDOE 152/06/2026
Capricorn North District Ref No: LDOE 153/06/2026
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDOE 154/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric Certificate A qualification in Fleet management will be an
added advantage. Knowledge and Skills: Data capturing. Collecting statistics.
Knowledge of SCM regulations, policies and legislations. Report writing. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Good organizing skills. Functional
computer literacy (Ms word, PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide secretariat services in the fleet management services. Render support
service in the maintenance and repair of fleet. Provide record keeping of all
fleet documents/record.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/260 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: SECURITY AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
(X5 POSTS)
Directorate: Security and Facilities Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE Mopani West District Ref No: LDOE 155/06/2026
Mopani East District Ref No: LDOE 156/06/2026
Capricorn North District Ref No: LDOE 157/06/2026
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE 158/06/2026
Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 159/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirements: Grade 12/Matric Certificate. A relevant NQF level 6
qualification will be an added advantage. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
Public Service regulations, policies and legislations. Report writing. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Good organizing skills. Functional
computer literacy (Ms word, PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : Handle security and facilities management services. Handle and administer
security measures including access control. Handle and facilitate office
accommodation in line with policies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/261 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Financial Administration
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn North District Ref No: LDOE 160/06/2026
Mopani East District Ref No: LDOE 161/06/2026
187
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric Certificate. A qualification in Finance will be an added
advantage. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of Finance policies, legislations
and Treasury Regulations. Report writing. Good communication skills (verbal
and written). Good organizing skills. Functional computer literacy (Ms word,
PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook). Treasury Regulations. Computer literacy,
Communication skills (written and verbal), Planning and Organizing skills,
Interpersonal skills. Accounting skills.
DUTIES : Provide secretariat support for financial administration and reporting services.
Verify financial vouchers/invoices before payments are made.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/262 : DRIVER/MESSENGER (X26 POSTS)
Directorate: Special Schools and Inclusive Education
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Pfunanani Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 587/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Ramokgwakgwa Special School. Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE
588/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Nthabiseng Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 589/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Yingisani Special School, Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 590/06/2026 (X1
Post)1
Letaba Special School, Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 591/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Rivoni School for the Blind, Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 592/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Tshilwavhusiku Special School, Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE
593/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Tshilidzini Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 594/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Fulufhelo Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 595/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Ratanang Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 596/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Rethuseng Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 597/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Mahlasedi Special School, Capricorn South 3 District Ref No: LDoE
598/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Grace and Hope Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
599/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Benedict and Hope Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
600/06/2026 (X1 Post)
General Piet Joubert Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
601/06/2026 (X1 Post)
New Horizon Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
602/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Siloe School for the Blind, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 603/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Lebone Special School, Mogalakwena District Ref No: LDoE 604/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Jane Furse Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
605/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Bosele School for the Blind, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
606/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Ipelegeng Special School, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
607/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Susan Strydom Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 608/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Sedibeng Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 609/06/2026 (X1
Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Matric Certificate. Valid Code 10 driver’s license with PDP. 3 years’
bus driving experience will be an added advantage. Driver’s competency test
will be conducted before appointment.
188
DUTIES : Responsible to transport learners in Special Schools to and from school
following designated routes and schedule. Follow traffic laws. Capable of
communicating with learners, parents and school staff. Assist learners in safe
loading and off - loading learners. Inform school’s personnel and parents of
incidents to maintain proper procedures. Performs pre - and post - trip
inspection. Supervise learners during transit for the purpose of maintaining
safety and following Departmental policies. Conduct safety and operational
inspection of assigned vehicle daily. Reports needed mechanical repairs, when
necessary, Performs periodical safety drills as required by law, completing
necessary reports upon request. Delivery and collections: Collect and deliver
documents, correspondence, mail, packages, and other items from places
such as the post office, other departments, and external stakeholders.
Purchase and loading: buying and loading equipment’s, groceries for the
institution. Health support: Taking learners to clinic and hospitals. Route
Planning: Plan and follow the most efficient routes using maps or GPS to
ensure timely delivery and avoid traffic delays. Vehicle Maintenance: Perform
pre-trip and post-trip inspections, ensure the vehicle is fuelled, clean, and well-
maintained, and report any issues or arrange for necessary repairs. Record
Keeping: Complete and maintain all required records and logbooks regarding
trips, mileage, fuel consumption, and goods handled. General Support: Assist
with general office or clerical work, such as filing, making photocopies, running
errands, or assisting with loading and unloading items. Customer Service:
Interact with clients and customers in a professional and courteous manner,
potentially collecting payments or obtaining signatures for deliveries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/263 : TEACHER AID (X117 POSTS)
Directorate: Special Schools and Inclusive Education
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Yingisani School for the Deaf, Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE
610/06/20264
Letaba Special School, Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 611/06/2026 (X4
Posts)
Rivoni School for the Blind, Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 612/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Tshilwavhusiku Razwimisani Special School, Vhembe West District Ref No:
LDoE 613/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Tshilidzini Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 614/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Grace and Love Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE
615/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Fulufhelo Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 616/06/2026 (X4
Posts)
Phatlaphadima Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
617/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Rethuseng Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 618/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Botlokwa Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 619/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Helene Franz Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
620/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Ratanang Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 621/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Grace and Hope Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
622/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Benedict and Hope Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
623/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Banaba Thari Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
624/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
General Piet Joubert Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
625/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Mahlasedi Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 626/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
189
Siloe School for the Blind, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 627/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
New Horizon Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
628/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Tsoga-O-Itirele Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
629/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Setotolwane LSEN School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
630/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Lebone special School, Mogalakwena District Ref No: LDoE 631/06/2026 (X2
Posts)
Nthabiseng Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 632/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Pfunanani Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 633/06/2026 (X4
Posts)
Ramokgwakgwa Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE
634/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Bosele School for the Blind, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
635/06/2026 (X6 Posts)
Asiphumelele Special School, Sekhukhune South District Ref LDoE
636/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Ipelegeng Special School, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
637/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Matobule Special School, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
638/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Rehlahleng Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
639/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Jane Furse Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
640/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Thusanang Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 645/06/2026 (X3
Posts)
Susan Strydom Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 646/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Sedibeng Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 647/06/2026 (X2
Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or Equivalent Functional computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Outlook
and PowerPoint) will be an added advantage. Competencies: Good
communication skills. Good Interpersonal Skills. Record Keeping. Patience &
Compassion. Teamwork. Strong planning and coaching skills. Work under
pressure
DUTIES : Help learners with assessments Support teaching and learning Prepare
classroom material including teaching aids, ICT equipment, Assistive devices
etc. as well a classroom activities Supervise learners during class, breaks and
play Help with classroom organization and control Assist with classroom
administrative tasks. Help learners who need additional support including
accompanying to bathroom for learners with physical disabilities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/264 : HOUSEKEEPER SUPERVISOR (X30 POSTS)
Directorate: Special Schools and Inclusive Education
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Pfunanani Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 703/06/2026 (X2
Posts)
Yingisani School for the Deaf, Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 704/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Letaba Special School, Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 705/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Rivoni School for the Dlind, Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 706/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Tshilwavhusiku Special School, Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE
707/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Tshilidzini Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 708/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Ratanang Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 709/06/2026
(X1 Post)
190
Helene franz Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
710/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Botlokwa Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 711/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Phatlaphadima Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
712/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Capricorn North District Rethuseng Special School Ref No: LDoE 713/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Grace and Hope Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
714/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Benedict and Hope Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
715/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Bana ba Thari Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
716/06/2026 (X1 Post)
General Piet Joubert Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
717/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
New Horizon Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
718/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Tsoga-O-Itirele Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
719/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Siloe School for the Blind, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 720/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Bosele School for the Blind, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
721/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Jane Furse Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
722/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Rehlahleng Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
723/06/2026 (2 Posts)
Thusanang Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 724/06/2026 (X2
Posts)
Susan Strydom Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 725/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Sedibeng Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 726/06/2026 (X2
Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or Equivalent, or Differentiated Curriculum and Assessment Policy
Statement (DCAPS) Grade 5 or Technical Occupational Curriculum (TOC)
Level 4 For Persons with Intellectual Disability Valid driver’s license will be an
added advantage except for people with disabilities. Competencies:
Communication skills. Ability to work with learners. Patience and compassion.
Teamwork.
DUTIES : Monitor the work of housekeepers Ensure safety and well-being of all learners
in the hostel Support and mentor learners Supervise implementation hostel
rules Promote positive behaviour Accompany learners for medical attention
Cleaning of the hostel Help ready learner for school each day Help with serving
of food in the dining hall as well as feeding unable learners Administer
medication as prescribed by medical practitioner Help with bathing of younger
learners or those unable to help themselves Assist learners with schoolwork
Help change nappies for learners unable to and perform supervisory duties in
this regard Act in loco parentis Be able to do shift work including day and night
shift, weekend shift and public holidays.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/265 : ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT (X29 POSTS)
Directorate: Special Schools and Inclusive Education
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Yingisani School for the Deaf, Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 648/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Rivoni School for the blind, Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 649/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Tshilwavhusiku Razwimisani Special School, Mopani West District Ref No:
LDoE 650/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Tshilidzini Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 651/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
191
Grace and Love Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE
652/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Phatlaphadima Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
653/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Rethuseng Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 654/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Grace and Hope Special School, CapricornNorth District Ref No: LDoE
655/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Benedict and Hope Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
656/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Banaba Thari Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
657/06/2026 (X1 Post)
General Piet Joubert Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
658/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Mahlasedi Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 659/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Siloe School for the Blind, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 660/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Lebone Special School, Mogalakwena District Ref No: LDoE 661/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Nthabiseng Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 662/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Ramokgwakgwa Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE
663/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Bosele School for the Blind, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
664/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Asiphumelele Special School, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
665/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Ipelegeng Special School, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
666/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Matobule Special School, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
667/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Rehlahleng Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
668/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Thusanang Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 669/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Susan Strydom Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 670/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Sedibeng Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 671/06/2026 (X1
Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or Equivalent or Differentiated Curriculum and Assessment Policy
Statement (DCAPS) Grade 5 or Technical Occupational Curriculum (TOC)
Level 4 in Office Admin or ICT related fields for Persons with Intellectual
Disability Functional computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Outlook and
PowerPoint) will be an added advantage. Competencies: Good communication
skills. Attention to details. Customer service. Good interpersonal Skills. Record
keeping and filing skills. Multitasking. Well organized and confidential. Good
communication skills
DUTIES : Management of correspondences (emails, memos and letters etc.). Filling and
Maintenance of records. Scheduling meetings and appointments. Manage
office supplies and inventory. General administrative tasks. Typing and
photocopying. Management of stock and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/266 : GENERAL ASSISTANT (X146 POSTS)
Directorate: Special Schools and Inclusive Education
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Yingisani School for the Deaf, Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 672/06/2026
(X6 Posts)
Letaba Special School, Mopani West Distric Ref No: LDoE 673/06/2026 (X6
Posts)
Rivoni School for the Blind, Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 674/06/2026
(X6 Posts)
192
Tshilwavhusiku Razwimisani Special School, Vhembe West District Ref No:
LDoE 675/06/2026 (X6 Posts)
Tshilidzini Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 676/06/2026
(X6 Posts)
Grace and Love Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE
677/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Fulufhelo Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 678/06/2026 (X7
Posts)
Phatlaphadima Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
679/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Rethuseng Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 680/06/2026
(X6 Posts)
Botlokwa Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 681/06/2026
(X6 Posts)
Helene Franz Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
682/06/2026 (X6 Posts)
Ratanang Special School, Capricorn North District Ref LDoE 683/06/2026 (X6
Posts)
Grace and Hope Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
684/06/2026 (X6 Posts)
Benedict and Hope Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
685/06/2026 (X6 Posts)
Bana – ba - Thari Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
686/06/2026 (X5 Posts)
General Piet Joubert Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
687/06/2026 (X7 Posts)
Mahlasedi Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 688/06/2026
(X3 Posts)
Siloe School for the Blind, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 689/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Lebone Special School, Mogalakwena Ref No: LDoE 690/06/2026 (2 Posts)
Nthabiseng Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 691/06/2026
(X3 Posts)
Pfunanani Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 692/06/2026 (X5
Posts)
Ramokgwakgwa Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE
693/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Bosele School for the Blind, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
694/06/2026 (X6 Posts)
Asiphumelele Special School, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
695/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Ipelegeng Special School, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
696/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Matobule Special School, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
697/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Rehlahleng Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
698/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Jane Furse Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
699/06/2026 (4 Posts)
Thusanang Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 700/06/2026 (X4
Posts)
Susan Strydom Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 701/06/2026
(X3 Posts)
Sedibeng Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 702/06/2026 (X3
Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent or Differentiated Curriculum and Assessment Policy
Statement (DCAPS) Grade 5 or Technical Occupational Curriculum (TOC)
Level 4 For Persons with Intellectual Disability. Competencies: Ability to
communicate, physically sound and healthy. Understanding to carry out simple
one or two steps instructions. Ability to operate a variety of small hands tools.
Good customer care. Time management. Group dynamics. Diversity
management. Change & knowledge management.
DUTIES : Maintain school grounds. Perform minor infrastructure maintenance. Cleaning
of classrooms, offices and hostels where applicable. Help with classroom and
general school furniture. Perform any other duties delegated by the school
principals.
193
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/267 : HOUSEKEEPER (MALE) (X85 POSTS)
Directorate: Special Schools and Inclusive Education
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE Pfunanani Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 727/06/2026 (X4
Posts)
Yingisani School for the Deaf, Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 728/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Letaba Special School, Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 729/06/2026 (X4
Posts)
Rivoni School for the Blind, Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 730/06/2026
(X3 Posts)
Tshilwavhusiku Special School, Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE
731/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Tshilidzini Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 732/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Ratanang Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 733/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Helene franz Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
734/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Botlokwa Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 735/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Phatlaphadima Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
736/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Rethuseng Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 737/06/2026
(X3 Posts)
Grace and Hope Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
738/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Benedict and Hope Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
739/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Banaba Thari Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
740/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
General Piet Joubert Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
741/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
New Horizon Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
742/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Tsoga-O-Itirele Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
743/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Siloe School for the Blind, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 744/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Setotolwane LSEN School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
745/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Bosele School for the Blind, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
746/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Jane Furse Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
747/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Rehlahleng Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
748/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Thusanang Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 749/06/2026 (X4
Posts)
Susan Strydom Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 750/06/2026
(X3 Posts)
Sedibeng Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 751/06/2026 (X3
Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or Equivalent, or Differentiated Curriculum and Assessment Policy
Statement (DCAPS) Grade 5 or Technical Occupational Curriculum (TOC)
Level 4 For Persons with Intellectual Disability. Valid driver’s license will be an
added advantage except for people with disabilities. Competencies:
Communication skills, Ability to work with learners, Patience, compassion,
teamwork.
DUTIES : Ensure safety and well-being of all learners Support and mentor learners
Implement hostel rules Promote positive behaviour Accompany learners for
medical attention Cleaning of the hostel Help ready learner for school each day
194
Help with serving of food in the dining hall as well as feeding unable learners
Administer medication as prescribed by medical practitioner Help with bathing
of younger learners or those unable to help themselves Assist learners with
schoolwork Help change nappies for learners unable to Act in loco parentis. Be
able to do shift work including day and night shift, weekend shift and public
holidays.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/268 : HOUSEKEEPER (FEMALE) (X78 POSTS)
Directorate: Special Schools and Inclusive Education
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Pfunanani Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 752/06/2026 (X4
Posts)
Yingisani School for the Deaf, Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 753/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Letaba Special School, Mopani West Distric Ref No: LDoE 754/06/2026 (X4
Posts)
Rivoni School for the Blind, Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 755/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Tshilwavhusiku Special School, Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE
756/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Tshilidzini Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 757/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Ratanang Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 758/06/2026
(X4 Posts)
Helene franz Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
759/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Botlokwa Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 760/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Phatlaphadima Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
761/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Rethuseng Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 762/06/2026
(X3 Posts)
Grace and Hope Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
763/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Benedict and Hope Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
764/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Bana ba Thari Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
765/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
General Piet Joubert Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
766/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
New Horizon Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
767/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
Capricorn South district, Tsoga-O-Itirele Special School Ref No: LDoE
768/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Siloe School for the Blind, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 769/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Setotolwane LSEN School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
770/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Bosele School for the Blind, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
771/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Jane Furse Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
772/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Rehlahleng Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
773/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Thusanang Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 774/06/2026 (X3
Posts)
Susan Strydom Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 775/06/2026
(X3 Posts)
Sedibeng Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 776/06/2026 (X3
Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or Equivalent, or Differentiated Curriculum and Assessment Policy
Statement (DCAPS) Grade 5 or Technical Occupational Curriculum (TOC)
Level 4 For Persons with Intellectual Disability. Valid driver’s license will be an
195
added advantage except for people with disabilities. Competencies: Good
communication skills. Care and support skills. Patience and compassion.
Collaboration.
DUTIES : Ensure safety and well-being of all learners Support and mentor learners
Implement hostel rules Promote positive behaviour Accompany learners for
medical attention Cleaning of the hostel Help learners for school each day Help
with serving of food in the dining hall and feeding learners who are unable.
Administer medication as prescribed by medical practitioners. Help with
bathing of younger learners or those unable to help themselves. Assist learners
with schoolwork. Help change nappies for learners unable to. Act in loco
parentis Shift work includes day and night shift, weekend shift and public
holidays. Be able to do shift work including day and night shift, weekend shift
and public holidays.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 24/269 : FOOD SERVICE WORKER (X56 POSTS)
Directorate: Special Schools and Inclusive Education
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Nthabiseng Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 777/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Pfunanani Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 778/06/2026 (X2
Posts)
Ramokgwakgwa Special School, Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE
779/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Rivoni School for the Blind, Vhembe: West District Ref No: LDoE 780/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Tshilwavhusiku Special School, Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE
781/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Tshilidzini Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 782/06/2026
(X3 Posts)
Mhinga Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 783/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Grace and love Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE
784/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Fulufhelo Special School, Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 785/06/2026 (X4
Posts)
Ratanang Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 786/06/2026
(X3 Posts)
Botlokwa Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 787/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Phatlaphadima Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
788/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Rethuseng Special School, Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 789/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Benedict and Hope Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
790/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
General Piet Joubert Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
791/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
New Horizon Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
792/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Tsoga-O-Itirele Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
793/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Siloe School for the Blind, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 794/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Setotolwane LSEN School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
795/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Mahlasedi Special School, Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 796/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Bosele School for the Blind, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
797/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Ipelegeng Special School, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
798/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Matobule Special School, Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
799/06/2026 (X1 Post)
196
Jane Furse Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
800/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Rehlahleng Special School, Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
801/06/2026(2 Posts)
Thusanang Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 802/06/2026 (X2
Posts)
Susan Strydom Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 803/06/2026
(X2 Posts)
Sedibeng Special School, Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 804/06/2026 (X2
Posts)
Lebone Special School, Mogalakwena District Ref No: LDoE 805/06/2026 (X1
Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 2 (Gr 10 / Std. 8) or equivalent qualification or Differentiated
Curriculum and Assessment Policy Statement (DCAPS) Grade 5 or Technical
Occupational Curriculum (TOC) Level 4 For Persons with Intellectual Disability
in Hospitality or related field. Competencies: Good communication skills, good
customer care, time management, group dynamics, diversity management,
change and knowledge management, and ability to read and write. Appropriate
competencies in food services. Ability to operate food service equipment.
Ability to apply hygiene measures in the workplace. Ability to work as a team.
DUTIES : Preparation of food according to menus. Serving food and refreshments.
Cleaning and purification of kitchen, canteen and food equipment. Be able to
do shift work including day and night shift, weekend shift and public holidays.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
197
ANNEXURE X
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
The Mpumalanga Department of Education is committed to provide equal opportunities and practices
affirmative action employment. It is the intention of the Department to promote representivity (disability,
gender and race) through the filling of posts and a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment
will promote representivity will receive preference. The Mpumalanga Department of Education awaits
applications from suitably qualified and experienced persons for appointment to positions, as set out
below.
APPLICATIONS : Should be uploaded via the following link https://erecruitment.mpg.gov.za
ENQUIRIES : should be directed to Tel No: (013) 766 5524/5175/5267/5458/5350: Ms. NP
Magagula / Ms. SL Mkhatshwa / Ms. SR Ndzinisa / Mr. X Sifunda, YT Mthethwa
- HR Recruitment.
CLOSING DATE : 30 July 2026
NOTE : Applications should be submitted on the latest Form Z.83, obtainable from any
Public Service Department. Applications must in all cases be accompanied by
a recently updated comprehensive CV only. Only shortlisted candidates for a
post will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity
document and driver’s license on or before the day of the interview following
communication from the relevant HR section of the Department. The filling of
posts will be done in terms of the Department’s approved Employment Equity
Plan. Due to ongoing internal processes, the Department reserves the right to
withdraw any post at any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the
qualifications of every recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer
of appointment. All short-listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process
prior to appointment. If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department
of Education within 90 days after the closing date of the advertisement,
applicants must assume that their application was not successful. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/270 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REF NO: A5/095
This is a re-advertisement of the post advertised in the PSVC 22 of 2026 (Ref
No: A4/084)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) as recognized by SAQA in Labour
Relations / Labour Law or equivalent qualifications plus 3 years relevant
experience. Competencies: Extensive knowledge of Labour laws, dispute
resolution mechanisms, education legislation and policies and public service
legislation and policies. In depth knowledge of and experience in procedures
for dealing with incapacity/inefficiency and employee behaviour. Credible
experience in conflict resolution and crisis intervention. Strong interpersonal-,
written and verbal communication skills. Proven ability to communicate
effectively with a broad spectrum of role players. Excellent report writing skills.
Sound analytical and problem solving skills. Advanced planning, organising
and project management skills. Sound financial management skills. Ability to
develop logical frameworks and other planning models. Ability to develop and
adhere to work schedules. Ability to maintain the required level of information
confidentiality and security. Developed computer literacy. Willingness to travel
and work beyond normal working hours. Ability to provide strategic leadership
and to deliver excellent results under pressure. Valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Manage the Collective Bargaining Unit. Co-ordinate, manage and monitor
collective bargaining activities. Prepare and obtain mandates for collective
bargaining. Prepare documents for collective bargaining. To represent the
employer in collective bargaining structures. To Liaise with disputing parties
with the aim of resolving disputes emanating from collective bargaining. To
handle Industrial actions according to legislation, policy and procedure. Give
direction to, co-ordinate, monitor and advise on all Labour relations related
198
matters (procedural and policy). Interpret existing and newly developed policies
and facilitate policy making on Labour relations matters where applicable.
Manage the development and implementation of appropriate policy, systems,
management- and administrative structures for the provision and maintenance
of a comprehensive Labour relations service. Identify the needs for improved
Labour relations services and formulate programmes and projects for the
implementation thereof. Ensure compliance, implementation and maintenance
of national and provincial policy frameworks in the responsible areas of activity.
Maintain discipline of staff members. Promote a culture of efficiency and
quality. Execute HR Performance Management. The appointee will be a
member of the middle management echelon of the Department of Education,
and will be expected to chair disciplinary enquiries when required to do so.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. H Ngwenya Tel No: (013) 766 5429
POST 24/271 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL & SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: A5/096
This is a re-advertisement of the post advertised in the PSVC 22 of 2026 (Ref
No: A4/085)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Nkangala District Office, KwaMhlanga
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) as recognized by SAQA in Accounting
/ Cost and Management Accounting / Commerce / Financial Management or
equivalent qualifications related to the field plus 3 years relevant experience.
In depth knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999, Treasury
Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA) and the
specified work field. Sound knowledge and experience of all financial related
matters, budget procedures, the Basic Accounting System (BAS), the PERSAL
System as well as the computerised LOGIS System. Well-developed written
and verbal communication skills. Good presentation and report writing skills.
Strong interpersonal and networking skills. Ability to work under pressure.
Ability to function independently. Proven management skills and the ability to
liaise at a high level. The ability to develop systems and processes as well as
policies and procedures. Client-orientation/customer focus. Analytical, problem
solving and decision making skills. Good computer user knowledge and
experience. Valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Overall management of district Financial Services (including Budget and
revenue management, expenditure services & Salary services, Supply Chain
services and Asset Management). Ensure the efficient management of the
district budget, the co-ordination of budgetary inputs and financial reporting.
Manage and co-ordinate the efficient and accountable administration of
salaries and salary accounts. Ensure the effective acquisition of goods and
services. Co-ordinate and administer matters in respect of asset management
in accordance with policies and delegations. Give direction to, co-ordinate,
monitor and advise on all finance related matters (procedural and policy).
Interpret existing and newly developed policies and facilitate policy making on
financial matters where applicable. Develop and implement appropriate policy,
systems, management- and administrative structures for the provision and
maintenance of a comprehensive district Financial Service. Identify the needs
for improved financial services and formulate programmes and projects for the
implementation thereof. Maintain discipline of staff members. Execute HR
Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela Tel No: (013) 947 1816 / Ms LS Malatjie Tel No: (013) 947 1725.
POST 24/272 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HR SERVICES REF NO: A5/097
This is a re-advertisement of the post advertised in the PSVC 22 of 2026 (Ref
No: A4/086)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office, Kanyamazane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) as recognized by SAQA in Human
Resource Management / Public Management or equivalent qualification plus 3
years relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge of Human Resource
concepts, principles, policies and procedures. In depth knowledge and
experience of the PERSAL System. Knowledge of the legislation regulating all
HR administration of educators and officials and related HR policies and
199
practices, as well as employee wellness. Excellent written and verbal
communication skills. Good presentation and report writing skills. Strong
interpersonal and networking skills. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to
function independently. Proven management skills and the ability to liaise at a
high level. The ability to develop systems and processes as well as policies
and procedures. Client-orientation/ customer focus. Analytical, problem solving
and decision making skills. Advanced planning and project management skills.
Proven supervisory and people management skills. Good computer user
knowledge and experience pertaining to MS Office (Word, Excel and
PowerPoint - with special emphasis on Access). Valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Overall management of district HR Services, including specialised HR support-
, research and advisory services, establishment services, employment, career
matters, housing and leave, pensions and compensation benefits, PERSAL
registry services, the maintenance of the PERSAL Personnel subsystem, and
the co-ordination of all HR Projects. Overall management of matters in respect
of HIV/AIDS prevention and -care programmes and employee assistance
programmes. Give direction to, co-ordinate, monitor and advise on all HR
related matters (procedural and policy). Interpret existing and newly developed
policies and facilitate policy making on HR matters where applicable. Develop
and implement appropriate policy, systems, management- and administrative
structures for the provision and maintenance of a comprehensive district HR
Service. Identify the needs for improved HR services and formulate
programmes and projects for the implementation thereof. Maintain discipline of
staff members. Execute HR Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JT Dlamini Tel No: (013) 766 0508
POST 24/273 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HR SERVICES REF NO: A5/098
This is a re-advertisement of the post advertised in the PSVC 22 of 2026 (Ref
no: A4/087)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Bohlabela District Office, Bushbuckridge
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) as recognized by SAQA in Human
Resource Management /Public Management or equivalent qualification plus 3
years relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge of Human Resource
concepts, principles, policies and procedures. In depth knowledge and
experience of the PERSAL System. Knowledge of the legislation regulating all
HR administration of educators and officials and related HR policies and
practices, as well as employee wellness. Excellent written and verbal
communication skills. Good presentation and report writing skills. Strong
interpersonal and networking skills. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to
function independently. Proven management skills and the ability to liaise at a
high level. The ability to develop systems and processes as well as policies
and procedures. Client-orientation/ customer focus. Analytical, problem solving
and decision-making skills. Advanced planning and project management skills.
Proven supervisory and people management skills. Good computer user
knowledge and experience pertaining to MS Office (Word, Excel and
PowerPoint - with special emphasis on Access). Valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Overall management of district HR Services, including specialised HR support-
, research and advisory services, establishment services, employment, career
matters, housing and leave, pensions and compensation benefits, PERSAL
registry services, the maintenance of the PERSAL Personnel subsystem, and
the co-ordination of all HR Projects. Overall management of matters in respect
of HIV/AIDS prevention and -care programmes and employee assistance
programmes. Give direction to, co-ordinate, monitor and advise on all HR
related matters (procedural and policy). Interpret existing and newly developed
policies and facilitate policy making on HR matters where applicable. Develop
and implement appropriate policy, systems, management- and administrative
structures for the provision and maintenance of a comprehensive district HR
Service. Identify the needs for improved HR services and formulate
programmes and projects for the implementation thereof. Maintain discipline of
staff members. Execute HR Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Mashile Tel No: (013) 766 7441
200
POST 24/274 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS
REF NO: A5/099
This is a re-advertisement of the post advertised in the PSVC 22 of 2026 (Ref
No: A4/088)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Bohlabela District Office, Bushbuckridge
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) as recognized by SAQA or equivalent
qualifications related to the field plus 3 years relevant experience. In depth
knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999, Treasury Regulations
and the specific work field. Sound knowledge and experience of all building
project matters, education and training management information systems as
well as computer based system services. Well-developed written and verbal
communication skills. Good presentation and report writing skills. Strong
interpersonal and networking skills. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to
function independently. Proven management skills and the ability to liaise at a
high level. The ability to develop systems and processes as well as policies
and procedures. Client-orientation/customer focus. Analytical, problem solving
and decision making skills. Extensive computer user knowledge and
experience. Valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate the rendering of integrated education resource
planning- and resource management services within the MTEF. Oversee the
performing of works inspections. Manage the strategic development and
operation of education and training management information systems,
collecting and provisioning of education data at District level. Manage the
establishment, support and maintenance of effective and efficient information
communication technology systems throughout the district.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Mashile Tel No: (013) 766 7441
POST 24/275 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS A5/100
This is a re-advertisement of the post advertised in the PSVC 22 of 2026 (Ref
No: A4/089)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Bohlabela District Office, Bushbuckridge
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) as recognized by SAQA in Labour
Relations / Labour Law or equivalent qualifications plus 3 years relevant
experience. Competencies: Extensive knowledge of Labour laws, dispute
resolution mechanisms, education legislation and policies and public service
legislation and policies. In depth knowledge of and experience in procedures
for dealing with incapacity/inefficiency and employee behaviour. Credible
experience in conflict resolution and crisis intervention. Strong interpersonal-,
written and verbal communication skills. Proven ability to communicate
effectively with a broad spectrum of role players. Excellent report writing skills.
Sound analytical and problem solving skills. Advanced planning, organising
and project management skills. Sound financial management skills. Ability to
develop logical frameworks and other planning models. Ability to develop and
adhere to work schedules. Ability to maintain the required level of information
confidentiality and security. Developed computer literacy. Willingness to travel
and work beyond normal working hours. Ability to provide strategic leadership
and to deliver excellent results under pressure. Valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Manage all district labour relations matters. Co-ordinate, manage and monitor
collective bargaining activities, address grievances and regulate, promote and
administer sound dispute resolution and -prevention mechanisms. Manage all
matters pertaining to incapacity/ inefficiency and employee behaviour. Give
direction to, co-ordinate, monitor and advise on all labour relations matters
(procedural and policy). Interpret existing and newly developed policies and
facilitate policy making on collective bargaining, grievances as well as dispute
resolution and -prevention mechanisms. Manage the monitoring of time off and
secondment for teacher union or employee organisation activities. Liaise with
Head Office and trade unions on all labour relations matters. Develop and
implement appropriate policy, systems, management and administrative
structures for the provision of effective and efficient district labour relations.
Maintain discipline of staff members. Execute HR Performance Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Mashile Tel No: (013) 766 7441
201
POST 24/276 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSFORMATION REF NO: A5/101
This is a re-advertisement of the post advertised in the PSVC 22 of 2026 (Ref
No: A4/090)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) as recognized by SAQA in Public
Management / Human Resource Management or equivalent qualifications plus
3 years relevant experience. Competencies: Extensive knowledge of the
legislation regulating the transformation of the public service and related HR
policies and practices. Planning and organising skills. Ability to meet deadlines.
Strong interpersonal-, written and verbal communication skills. Good
presentation and report writing skills. Proven managerial skills and the ability
to liaise at a high level. Good computer user knowledge and experience.
Condition: Appointment will be subject to competency assessment. Valid
driver's license
DUTIES : This role is responsible for managing staff performance and executing
management function regarding the transformation of civil society in order to
achieve organisational objectives. Develop and manage transformation
processes. Render support services. Manage and develop democratization of
the workplace. Develop policies and procedures. Perform management
functions. Execute HR Performance Management. Ensure the development,
monitoring and implement Employment Equity Plan and the reporting
therefore. Co-ordinate the Employment Equity Committee meetings. Facilitate
Diversity Management programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LH Moyane Tel No: (013) 766 5520
POST 24/277 : GIS SPECIALIST: WEB SERVICES REF NO: A5/102
This is a re-advertisement of the post advertised in the PSVC 22 of 2026 (Ref
No: A4/091)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) as recognized by SAQA in Information
Technology / Computer Science / BSc or equivalent qualifications plus 3 years
relevant experience. Experience in GIS database administration, GIS web
application development and/or spatial analysis and data extraction will be
considered. Experience in working with Arc Gis or Arc lMS. Project
management. Knowledge of Government legislation regarding spatial
information. Experience in the educational sector will be an advantage.
Analytical thinking and problem solving abilities. Excellent client liaison skills.
Sound teamwork and human relation capabilities. Ability to work under
pressure and expended working hours. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage, maintain and support the departmental GIS services. Identify and
acquire spatial and non-spatial data from various sources. Prepare data for use
in the GIS environment. Use static information and non-spatial information to
create spatial data. Compile and print reports and maps based on the spatial
analysis. Responsible for business report writing and spatial data
presentations. Promote the use of GIS and spatial analysis in the planning and
monitoring of in-house development. Represent the department on
departmental, provincial and national level.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Tebeila Tel No: (013) 766 5566.
POST 24/278 : SENIOR STATISTICIAN: EDUCATION MANAGEMENT INFORMATION
SYSTEMS REF NO: A5/103
This is a re-advertisement of the post advertised in the PSVC 22 of 2026 (Ref
No: A4/092)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) as recognized by SAQA in Statistics or
equivalent qualifications plus 3 years relevant experience. Computer literate in
Microsoft developments. Excellent statistical analysing skills. Good verbal and
202
written communication skills. Good report writing skills. Sound human relations
and the ability to work under pressure and within a team. Valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Execute statistical analyses of education data and Stats-SA data. Incorporate
external data into useful analytical data. Forecast trends on data to support
management decisions. Liaise with other departments / directorates / sectors
in assisting with data analyses. Work closely with the Chief Information Officer
in regard of the above. Assist management in analyses and understanding of
statistical data. Prepare statistical reports for publishing on web-sites,
newsletters and media. Liaise within the matrix function on statistical reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. D Mtembu Tel No: (013) 766 5124
POST 24/279 : WEB SPECIALIST: WEB SERVICES REF NO: A5/104
This is a re-advertisement of the post advertised in the PSVC 22 of 2026 (Ref
No: A4/093).
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) as recognized by SAQA in the relevant
field or equivalent qualifications plus 3 years relevant experience. Analytical
thinking and problem solving abilities. Excellent client liaison skills. Sound
teamwork and human relation capabilities. Ability to work under pressure and
extended working hours. Experience in the Educational sector, project
management experience, sound knowledge of HTML/ASP.NET/PHP
languages and familiar with SQL databases will be considered. Short listed
candidates may be required to complete a technical/practical competency test.
Valid driver's license.
DUTIES Develop policies in support of the Departmental strategy. Represent the
department on departmental, provincial and national level. Manage technical
aspects of the departmental web site. Liaise with other departmental
stakeholders regarding departmental website content. Maintain, manage and
support the departmental website. Liaise with the EMIS and Information Officer
regarding publishing educational data.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Tebeila Tel No: (013) 766 5566
POST 24/280 : SOCIAL WORKER GR 1: ECD CENTRES - CONDITIONAL GRANT REF NO:
A5/105 (X6 POSTS)
This is a re-advertisement of the post advertised (Ref No: A1/002)
SALARY : R338 208 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized Bachelors Degree in social work (NQF Level 7). Registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions. In-depth knowledge
of psycho-social interventions, Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive Education
as well as diverse barriers to learning and development. Computer literacy. A
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Monitor and support Conditional Grant ECD programs on compliance as per
norms and standards. Facilitate the registration and renewal of ECD centers.
Verify the screening of children who are eligible for funding. Mentor and
Supervise Social Auxiliary workers. Allocate tasks to Social Auxiliary workers.
Facilitate local stakeholder meetings. Render parental care giver training.
Render administration services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. EK Siwela Tel No: (013) 766 5922
203
ANNEXURE Y
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST
DEPARTMENT OF ARTS, CULTURE, SPORTS AND RECREATION
This Department is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representativity (race, gender and disability) e.g. White, Indian, Coloured and African, in the Department
through the filling of posts. People with disability are encouraged to apply. The candidates whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference. An indication in
this regard will facilitate the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted to Human Capital Management, Department
of Arts, Culture, Sports and Recreation, 760 Dr James Moroka Drive,
Gaabomotho Building, Mmabatho.
FOR ATTENTION : The Head of Department
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026
NOTE : Compliance: Applications must be submitted on the approved New Amended
Z83 Form (No.81/971431) as prescribed with effect from 01 January 2021,
which must be signed, initialled and dated, however, the initial on the second
page of the form is not mandatory. The form is obtainable any Public Service
Department or on the DPSA website, www.dpsa.gov.za Applicants must
indicate the post and the correct reference number on the Z83 application
Form. The New Z83 Form must be accompanied by detailed Curriculum Vitae
clearly indicating positions held, period in the position and key responsibilities
with three contactable referees and it is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to provide proof of such
evaluation report (only when shortlisted). DPSA Circular 03 of 2025 states that
the form must be completed in manner that provides sufficient information
about the candidate and the post applied for by completing all relevant fields.
Please note that Part A must be fully completed. Part B, C and D questions of
the Z83 may be left blank, marked as not relevant, and use dashes or N/A if
they do not apply to you or the position applied for. Part E, F and G do not need
to be completed if the CV has been attached and provides the required
information. However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part F is compulsory for applicants seeking re-employment
into the Public Service. Applicants currently employed by the public service do
not need to complete the section as it is intended for those seeking re-
employment. Failure to provide information on CV as requested the applicant
may be disqualified. Applications received after closing date will, as a rule not
be accepted. Only shortlisted candidates for the post will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interviews. It will be expected
of candidate(s) to be available for interview process on a date, time and place
as determined by the Department. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity. Applicants could be required to provide consent for
access to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment for SMS, a
candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry
Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an
online course, endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The
course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the
SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required to undergo personal
suitability checks, which include criminal records, citizenship, financial
credits/assets, qualifications verification, verification of any dismissal for
misconduct and previous employment background/reference checks will be
verified. Candidates will be subject to security screening and vetting. Applicants
must disclose if he/she is not a Director/Shareholder of a company or
conducting any business with Organ of State and whether is performing any
additional remunerative work outside his/her normal duties. The successful
candidate will enter into an Annual Performance Agreement, and also annually
disclose his/her financial interest. The Department reserves the right not to
204
make appointments. Note: Candidates who previously applied for re-
advertised posts are encouraged to re-apply. Candidates requiring additional
information regarding advertised post must direct their enquiries to the relevant
person indicated. Communication and Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3)
months after the closing date, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 24/281 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2026/ACSR49/NW
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The inclusive
remuneration package consist of the Basic Salary, contribution to Government
Employee Pension Fund, Medical Fund and a flexible portion in terms of
applicable rules. The successful candidate must enter a performance
agreement and sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Degree/ Advanced Diploma/ B-Tech at NQF Level 7 (as
recognised by SAQA) in Human Resource Management / Public Administration
/ Public Management / Human Resource and Industrial Psychology. A minimum
of five (5) years relevant experience at Middle/ Senior Management level. A
valid driver’s license. An SMS pre-entry programme must be completed and a
Nyukela Certificate be obtained and submitted before an appointment can be
considered. Knowledge: Client focused HR Strategist. A thorough
understanding of policy formulation and coordination. Proven experience in or
thorough understanding of the social development system/ sector. A good
background in turnaround and change management strategies Experience in
and insight into legislation that impacts on human resource practices and
procedures. Knowledge of Government systems (PERSAL). Competencies: A
results-driven, customer-focused approach, with excellent planning,
organisational communication (written and verbal) and presentation skills.
Analytical and innovative thinking. Knowledge of human and financial resource
management. Good computer literacy in the Microsoft Office suite (Word, Excel
and PowerPoint). The ability to work in highly pressured environment and
driven by a sense of urgency to meet deadlines. Leadership skills. Research
and policy formulation. Presentation and facilitation skills. Executive report -
writing skills. People management. Financial management. Strategic planning.
Project management. Change and knowledge management. Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Provide Strategic Direction, Leadership, and Management in Human Capital
Management Unit. Ensure policy development, implementation, and
monitoring. Ensure development and implementation of the Strategic Plan,
Annual Performance Plan for the Unit. Provide Human Resource
Administration Services (and HR practices). Ensure the provision of
comprehensive organisational development support. Manage and co-ordinate
implementation of departmental transformation programmes. Manage overall
employee relations. Ensure implementation and monitoring of Employee
Health and Wellness programmes. Manage and co-ordinate human capital
planning, salaries and information systems services that support the
departmental strategy. Coordinate, and manage strategic human resource
training and development services. Ensure implementation of the Performance
Management and Development System in the department to ensure
performance contracting, management, assessments, and rewards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L.E. Moloele Tel No: (018) 388 2810
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/282 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ICT REF NO: 2026/ACSR47/NW
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package). The inclusive
remuneration package consist of the Basic Salary, contribution to Government
Employee Pension Fund, Medical Fund and a flexible portion in terms of
applicable rules. The successful candidate must enter a performance
agreement and sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Appropriate 3 year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/
Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in Information Technology, Computers
205
Science or relevant (equivalent) qualification. A minimum of five (5) years
relevant experience in the ICT environment of which 3 three years should be
at junior management level (Assistant Director and equivalent), MCSE/ ITIL/
COBIT/ Project management Certification/ other relevant certifications will be
an added advantage, and a valid drivers’ licence. Skills and attributes:
Knowledge of hardware and software platforms, their limitations and
capabilities. Knowledge and ability to apply relevant regulations, policies and
directives. Planning and organising. Project management and administration.
People management and conflict resolution. Leadership, delegation and
empowerment of subordinates. Financial management. Customer relationship
management skills. Excellent written and verbal communication skills with the
ability to communicate concepts appropriately to officials at various levels of
responsibility. Trustworthy, ethical and professional with integrity. Innovative,
self-driven and results-oriented.
DUTIES : Implementation of good corporate governance of ICT within the department as
guided by relevant legislations. Development and implementation of business-
enabling ICT Strategy. Management of ICT technical support services
(hardware, software and networks). Ensure Improvement of departmental
processes through deployment of ICT solutions. Initiate, develop and review
relevant IT policies/ procedures/ frameworks ensuring adherence to best
practices. Planning and execution of ICT projects. Define, negotiate and
manage service agreements with external ICT service providers. Proper
implementation of ICT risks management processes. Management of the ICT
unit financial and human resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S.G. Sebolecwe Tel No: (018) 388 2764
POST 24/283 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
2026/ACSR48/NW
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package). The inclusive
remuneration package consist of the Basic Salary, contribution to Government
Employee Pension Fund, Medical Fund and a flexible portion in terms of
applicable rules. The successful candidate must enter a performance
agreement and sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Appropriate 3 year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/
Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in Operations Management/ Management
Services/ Industrial Psychology/ Human Resource Management or relevant
(equivalent) qualification. A minimum of five (5) years relevant experience of
which three (3) must be at Assistant Director level. A valid drivers’ license. Job
Evaluation Certificate. Knowledge of Organisational development interventions
and techniques. Knowledge of mandates prescript attached to Organisational
Develop. Knowledge of Org - Plus and Job Evaluate and OD System.
Understanding of Batho Pele Values. Knowledge of Human Resource Planning
of PERSAL. Change Management principles. Understanding of Public Service
regulations and Act and other Government policies. Skills: Advance
Communications skills, both oral and writing. Problem solving skills, People
management and empowerment, Presentation skills, Project management
skills. Good interpersonal relations skills. Presentation skills. Research
analysis skills. Computer skills.
DUTIES : Ensure the development of the Organisational structure. Manage the
implementation of Job Evaluation system in the Development. Facilitate job
analysis, job design and job evaluation processes. Facilitate implementation of
Organizational functionality assessment processes. Management the
Departmental Human resource administration delegations. Management the
implementation of Change Management Initiatives. Facilitate the development
Human resource Plan HRP. Facilitate the development of Departmental
Employment Equity Plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Jacobs Tel No: (018) 388 2719
206
ANNEXURE Z
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 24 July 2026, 17:00PM
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 24/284 : MANAGER: MEDICAL SERVICES GRADE 1
SALARY Grade 1: R1 479 723 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: A minimum of 3 years
appropriate experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate and proven managerial
experience in a Health Care environment, showing leadership, strategic and
operational skills. Knowledge and proven managerial experience with regard
to managing Clinical Services, Human Resource and Financial Resource
Management. Extensive knowledge of National, Provincial and institutional
health delivery system, policies and law, governing resource allocations, as
well as Medico-Legal matters. Understanding of clinical governance and audit
and proven skills in quality improvement strategies and implementation thereof.
Excellent communication and conflict management skills. Proven computer
literacy with proficiency in (i.e. MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint) with the ability
to understand and analyse statistical and financial information.
DUTIES : Effective leadership and management of staff through leading, growing and
motivating staff, and enabling a culture of team work. Fostering trust and care
with staff and stakeholders and growing connectedness. Taking responsibility
for own behaviour, decision-making and conduct. Overall strategic and on the
ground operational management, clinical and corporate governance of clinical
service departments. Effective and efficient management of Clinical
Departments rendering appropriate, comprehensive, equitable, affordable and
accessible secondary/tertiary/ quaternary services at Red Cross War Memorial
Children’s Hospital in a resource constrained environment. Participation in
ecosystem management for service redesign and transformation to strengthen
the equity of access to tertiary care. Special portfolios/ projects, which may
include data collection, manipulation and analysis. Ensure the highest
standards of patient care are maintained and determine policies and practices
regarding admission, treatment and discharge of patients within available
resources. Management of feedback from the public and resolution of
complaints in order to have continuous improvement of technical quality,
internal efficiency and effectiveness of services. Provide platform for teaching,
training, development and research to improve overall child wellbeing.
ENQUIRIES : Dr AN Parbhoo Tel No: (021) 658-5005, anita.parbhoo@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
207
POST 24/285 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3: SURGERY (OPHTHALMOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council, in respect
of foreign-qualified employees, for whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A
minimum of 6years’ relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Perform
commuted overtime duties. Willingness to work shifts. A Diploma in
Ophthalmology from the CMSA or similar qualification. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of ophthalmology with the ability to examine and
manage patients in outpatient clinics is essential. Basic ophthalmology clinical
and surgical experience, with cataract surgery experience being an added
advantage. Ability to work well within a team at all levels of authority and
communicate effectively with patients and colleagues. Computer literacy to
facilitate patient care, research, and administration. Demonstrated interest in
learning ophthalmology and commitment to service delivery.
DUTIES : Efficiently evaluate new patients in the eye clinic. Work patients up for surgery
and perform the appropriate pre-operative tests, including immersion biometry
and OCT scans. Manage post-operative patients and patients with chronic
conditions, including glaucoma and diabetes. Perform reliable Goldman
applanation tonometry, YAG laser procedures, argon laser procedures, and
selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT). Perform sub-tenons anaesthesia, intra-
ocular injections, and cataract surgery under supervision. Assist with the
administration of the clinic, including the ordering of special lenses and other
related duties as required. Review and appropriately prioritize referrals.
Manage inpatients when required, including admission and discharge
documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Dr D Steven Tel No: (021) 902-8000
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/286 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
208
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willing and able to work shifts. Willing and able
to work with patients with infectious diseases. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license and willingness and ability to travel. Available and willing to participate
in after-hours duties. Perform commuted overtime duties in the Emergency
Centre. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in
Psychiatry. Excellent clinical consultation, management and procedural skills.
Computer literacy. Good professional attitude. Excellent communication skills.
Ability to work well both in a team or as an individual.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive medical and psychiatric care through the assessment,
diagnosis, treatment, and ongoing management of patients presenting with a
wide range of health conditions. Formulate and implement appropriate
treatment plans, including medication and therapeutic interventions.
Demonstrate clinical competence in the assessment and initial management
of undifferentiated patients presenting to a district hospital Emergency Centre.
Perform overtime and after-hours duties in the Emergency Centre, including
the management of medical, surgical, trauma, and psychiatric emergencies
within the district hospital scope of practice. Maintain accurate electronic and
paper-based patient records and complete all required medical, legal, and
administrative documentation. -Refer patients to specialists and other
healthcare providers where appropriate. Complete required CPD activities to
maintain HPCSA registration. Uphold the reputation, ethical standards, and
integrity of the medical profession.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Serfontein Tel No: (021) 902- 8061
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 24/287 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful candidate to participate
in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. One-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
209
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(code B/EB) driver’s licence. Compulsory Commuted Overtime (COT) duties.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of general medical and surgical
conditions on hospital and PHC level and Knowledge applicable to South
African TB and HIV care guidelines and including pediatrics HIV and Drug-
resistant TB. Comprehensive evidence-based, direct patient-centred Clinical
Service Provision in the District Health Service and computer literacy (MS
Excel, Word, Outlook, CAReS, VULA, HECTIS, SPV etc.) and good
interpersonal, organizational and teamwork skills. Primary healthcare
experience. Skills in doing outpatient procedures (Core needle biopsy, Fine
needle aspiration, Endometrial Pipelles, removal of lesions under local
anesthesia) as well as basic antenatal ultrasounds. Ability and willingness to
do outreach services to clinics and training in PHC throughout the Stellenbosch
Sub-district, guiding health care colleagues in managing difficult PHC cases.
Ability to take ownership of the OPD bookings at Stellenbosch and manage
referrals on electronic platforms from the hospital, referring facilities and private
providers.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Provision. Clinical Governance. Training and development and
Research. Outreach and Support/Cross-utilization of services. Provide quality
outpatient care to patients in Stellenbosch Sub-District including Stellenbosch
Hospital and surrounding clinics and healthcare facilities. Provide outreach and
support service to PHC facilities in the Stellenbosch Sub-District. Actively
participate in skills transfer, training, and academic opportunities relevant to the
post. Active involvement in the clinical governance of Stellenbosch Sub-district
facilities as required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr L B Eksteen Tel No: (021) 808-6135
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 24/288 : PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R907 617 per annum
Grade 2: R1 055 292 per annum
Grade 3: R1 221 843 per annum
(plus a non-pensionable rural allowance of 8% of the basic annual salary), (A
portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's personal
needs).
CENTRE : Witzenberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Clinical Psychologist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Clinical
Psychologist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
a Psychologist in respect of RSA-qualified employees. One-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of
foreign-qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 8 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of
210
RSA-qualified employees. Minimum of 9 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified
employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 16 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of RSA-qualified
employees. Minimum of 17 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of foreign-qualified employees of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Willingness to travel in the Sub-district. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Strong
therapeutic skills. Proven presentation skills. Experience working in a multi-
disciplinary team approach. Supervisory experience.
DUTIES : Deliver a comprehensive clinical psychology service to various clinics in the
Langeberg Sub District with regard to assessment, diagnosis and treatment
(with children, adolescents and adults). Apply knowledge of intervention skills
such as behaviour modification, psychodynamic therapies, family therapy,
CBT, group therapy, etc. in a primary health care setting. Provide mentor
supervision and training of registered counsellors and Psychiatric Nurses.
Conduct training and workshops on mental health aspects. Develop and
implement projects that focus on awareness and promotion of mental health in
the community. Understand and uphold the principles and ethics of a
Therapeutic Milieu.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Crous, Clinical Manager (Medical)Tel No: (023) 316-9600
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post Candidates who
are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 24/289 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: NIGHT DUTY)
SALARY : R785 568 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
basic nursing qualification in one of the R212 qualifications, with a duration of
at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC. Or a 4 year Bachelor Degree in
Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post graduate diploma in one of the qualifications (R635) accredited
with the SANC. The following R635 qualifications are excluded, i.e Post
Graduate Diploma in Health Service Management and a Post Graduate
Diploma in Nursing Education. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of
10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in Nursing after registration as
a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 6 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification (R212) or a
post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in the relevant
specialty. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate
recognisable experience at management level. Inherent requirement of the job:
Will be required to work shifts, weekends and public holidays. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in Word, and Excel. Excellent written and
verbal communication skills. Knowledge of quality assurance and National
Core Standards. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policy related to this
nursing specialty. Nursing Management qualification / skills. Strong leadership
and good interpersonal communication skills. Good organisational skills and
the ability to function in a team and under pressure.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible for management and co-ordination of clinical
nursing care in the hospital on night duty. Effective management and utilization
of Human and Financial Resources to ensure optimal clinical and operational
211
function in the area. Manage training, orientation, learning, professional growth
& development, and participation in research within the clinical environment on
night duty. Support/ deputise for the Head of Nursing and support the Nursing
department and the institution.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase Tel No: (021) 938-4000
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 24/290 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE) (X2
POSTS)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Touwsranten CC (X1 Post)
Kuyasa CC (X1 Post), George Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and
Care, accredited with the SANC (R48). OR A 4-year bachelor’s degree in
nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus
R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the
SANC in Primary Care Nursing. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum
of 9 years appropriate / recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to rotate between PHC clinics within the George Sub-
district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Exposure to
managerial functions in Primary Health Care Facilities. Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel and
PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Effective management of Support Services which includes, Information
Management with regards to data collection, verification, report writing and
submission of data, Human Resources (supervision of staff, development and
performance management), Finance and Supply Chain Management to ensure
effective budgeting and control. Control over infrastructure, maintenance and
security. Liaise with relevant stakeholders including Facility Committees. Co-
ordinate and evaluate Health programmes in respected area. Co-ordinate and
evaluate Community Based Health Services in respected area. Overall
management of clinic.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MJF Marthinus Tel No: (044) 814 - 1100
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical evaluation and competency test.
POST 24/291 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R664 410 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Diagnostic Radiographer. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a (Independent practitioner) Diagnostic
Radiographer. Experience: A minimum of 3 years’ experience in Diagnostic
Radiographer registration with the HPCSA. Inherent requirements of the job:
Must be willing to work shifts when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to manage and supervise the Radiography Department with knowledge,
experience and skills in general, trauma, emergency, theatre, mobile
radiography and Computerised Tomography; PACS and RIS experience will be
advantageous. Thorough knowledge of radiation protection, quality assurance,
equipment safety and equipment evaluation, pertaining to radiography.
212
Extensive experience and knowledge of radiography protocols. The candidate
must be computer literate and good communication skill (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Responsible for the control, supervision, delegation and co-ordination of the
imaging service of the Radiology department and the delivery of a professional
service to patients. Produce diagnostic images of high quality and be
responsible for staff and student training. Management of the cost centre,
inventory and supplies. Manage radiography and support personnel, including
performance appraisals. Ensure quality assurance, maintenance of equipment
and the purchase, use and care of suitable radiation protection equipment.
Participate in hospital management and delegated tasks, including statistic
collation and provide support to the Hospital Management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr G Dunbar Tel No: (021) 799-1211, email:
graeme.dunbar@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/292 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: THEATRE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
(Plus non pensionable rural allowance of 18% of your annual basic salary)
CENTRE : Riversdale Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Operating Theatre Nursing (212). OR A 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing
(R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC
in Peri-operative Nursing. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post- graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to work overtime, weekends, standby duties and Public
Holidays when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of
nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how this
impact on service delivery. Effective interpersonal, leadership, organisational,
decision making and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive specialized nursing care provided within a professional
/ legal framework. Participate with the multi-disciplinary team to provide holistic
health care, provide good documentation, care, planning and health education.
To support and participate in clinical practice development initiatives,
educational activities, and research. Effective utilization of human and financial
resources. Provide support services to Supervisor and Nursing division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NL Mphato Tel No: (028) 713 - 8643
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in the post basic qualification or post graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty.
213
POST 24/293 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Northern/Tygerberg Sub-structure Office (Stationed at Bothasig CDC)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880, plus
R254) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with duration of at
least 1year, accredited with SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212). OR A 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
post-graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health
Nursing. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to the above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in
obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification (R212) or a post graduate
diploma (R635) in the relevant speciality. Inherent requirements of the job: Will
be required to rotate within the Facility and assist with other PHC Clinics in the
Sub-structure when there is need. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, planning and
organizational skills. Knowledge of the Mental Health Care Act, Child Care act
and other relevant legislation. Computer literacy in MS Office.
DUTIES : Render and effective and comprehensive nursing treatment and care of
patients. Provide continuous and comprehensive nursing care, Effective
utilization of human, material and physical resources. Work as part of the multi-
disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing care. Work effectively, co-operated
amicable with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious
differences. Perform clinical and promote nursing practice in accordance with
the scope of practice and nursing standards as determined by the health
facility.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Lloyd Tel No: (021) 818-0940
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for the appointment on
condition that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant
council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant
council are submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is
only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the
post basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
Shortlisted Candidates will be subjected to a written/ practical/oral assessment
POST 24/294 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Human Resource Management or Labour Law. Experience:
Appropriate experience in Labour Relations in the Public or Private Sector.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code (B/EB) driver’s licence and
willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong interpersonal,
planning, conflict handling and organising skills. Ability to think analytically and
the ability to resolve problems. Understanding collective bargaining and
dispute resolution in the essential services. Investigative and presiding skills in
respect of disciplinary matters/hearings.
DUTIES : Give expert advice and support regarding variety of labour relations issues
such as misconduct, grievances, and disputes. Act as employer’s
representative at misconduct disciplinary hearings, conciliations and
arbitrations. Facilitate Labour Relations trainings. Investigate and management
of grievances. Monitoring and Evaluation of relevant employment relations
214
practices and activities. Management of ER database, draft learning outcomes
reports, relevant standard operating procedures and policies. Ensure optimal
supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Ngqame Tel No: (021) 831-5864
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/295 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MEC SUPPORT (LICENSING)
Directorate: Assurance
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma
(NQF Level 6) in Administration or Finance or Business or Health field or Law
(or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate administrative, data management and
legal administration/ interpretation experience within a health service and/or
business environment. Appropriate supervisory level (salary level 7 or 8).
Appropriate experience within a regulatory environment. Inherent requirement
of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver's licence and willingness to travel
throughout the Western Cape. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive
knowledge of Health Acts & Regulations (National & Provincial), specifically
those related to licensing of health services. Extensive knowledge of Policies
and Guidelines (National & Provincial) related to licensing of health services.
Excellent interpersonal, communication and organisation skills. Excellent
writing and grammatical skills, such as editing and formulating of documents.
Ability to function independently and with confidence. Good team building
skills. Client and task/results orientated. Ability to efficiently operate computer
programmes such as Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and E-mail.
DUTIES : Effectively and assertively implement applicable health and related legislation,
and decision-making procedure: Participating, on behalf of the Ministry, in all
processes pertaining to legislative changes pertaining to the licensing function.
Representing the Ministry in all consultative processes surrounding legal
matters brought against the MEC in relation to the licensing function Implement
guidance of P.N. 187, P.N. 180 and the Guidelines for Licensing Community
Mental Health Facilities. Rendering professional administrative support to the
MEC in relation to licensing: Receiving, sorting, filing and redirecting matters
received by the MEC in relation to licensing. Monitoring the document progress
for applications received by the MEC. Engage with the administrative staff in
the office of the MEC on short and long term professional administrative
support services with regards to licensing to: Collaborating on all appropriate
functions with the administrative staff in the office of the MEC. Rendering an
advisory service to the MEC in relation to licensing matters: Studying licensing
documentation received by the MEC. Consulting additional advisors where
necessary. Formulating advice for the MEC on all licensing matters. Presenting
to the MEC on all licensing matters. Drafting outcome letters for the MEC in
relation to applications received. Ensuring that legislative timeframes are met
in relation to licensing. Liaison, on behalf of the MEC, between the office of the
MEC and Department and/or applicants in the process of considering the
applications: Engaging Departmental staff to clarify queries and obtain
background information on all licensing matters dealt with in the MEC’s office.
Liaison with applicants to obtain additional information in relation to their
applications. Liaison with additional advisors in the process of formulating
advice in relation to the MEC’s function of considering appeals and
exemptions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Mavela Tel No: (021) 483-3316 / 073 875-8343
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/296 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
ADMINISTRATION
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha/ Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year Diploma/Degree.
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource Management
matters. Appropriate experience in all aspects of personnel and salary
administration. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code
B/EB). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of all Human
215
Resource practices. Good working knowledge and experience of PERSAL and
the relevant functions. Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel, Micro Soft
Outlook and PERSAL. Good communication skills (written and verbal). Strong
supervisory and leadership skills.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise the general staff office which is responsible for all
personnel and relevant matters. Implement and monitor the relevant policies,
procedures, prescripts regarding personnel, salary, leave and administration in
general. Act as reviser of PERSAL. Audit and revise leave, PILIR, ORW and
Pension documentation. Conducting performance reviews for employees.
Implement and monitor all allowance and disallowance documentation. Assist
staff, supervisor, management and members of the public regarding Human
Resource and Pension matters. Advice, support and train staff. Assist with the
structuring of all MMS packages.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Peter Tel No: (021) 360-4717
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates will b be subjected to a practical test.
POST 24/297 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER (PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : People Development
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Three-year National Diploma
or Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in People Development.
Appropriate experience in Training. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
driver’s license. Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
planning, people management and organisational skills. Sound problem
analysis. Computer literacy (MS Word, advanced Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook). Ability to function as a team player and independently with or without
supervision. Ability to function under stressful environment and cope with a
heavy workload. Project management knowledge and capabilities. Appropriate
planning and administration skills. In depth understanding, knowledge and
extensive appropriate experience within People Development and Training.
Appropriate knowledge of the policies, guidelines and legal framework that
regulates People Development and Training practices.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate the work and responsibilities of the People
Development & Training component. Develop and implement policy
frameworks and operational plans to guide implementation strategies for the
Skills Development within CD: ECSS. Develop and implement a quality
assurance system guided by appropriate benchmarks. Responsible for budget
administration for the People Development and Training component. Ensure
compliance with relevant skills development and related legislation and policies
and implement projects and programmes. Management and co-ordination of
the Internships, Bursaries, and Workplace Skills Plan administration
processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. X Xontana Tel No: (021) 815-8784
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine the candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements, and the other will be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
POST 24/298 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
Directorate: Employee Relations
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Human Resource Management or Labour Law. Experience:
Appropriate experience in dealing with disputes within the Public or Private
Sector. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code (B/EB) driver’s licence and
willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): In depth knowledge of
Labour Relations with specific reference to misconduct, grievances and dispute
resolution. Knowledge of labour law. Verbal and written communication skills.
Presentation and Facilitation. Computer Literacy in Ms Office.
DUTIES : Handling of misconduct cases, investigate misconduct, represent the employer
in disciplinary hearings. Handling of grievances, investigate grievances and
216
draft investigation report with recommendations. Dispute resolutions, represent
the employer in dispute resolution forums. Facilitate Labour Relations trainings.
Monitoring and Evaluation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Ngqame Tel No: (021) 831-5864
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/299 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A (MECHANICAL, REFRIGERATION OR
ELECTRICAL)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade A: R397 329 per annum
CENTRE : Robertson Hospital, Langeberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate trade test certificate.
Experience: Grade A: 5 years’ experience after obtaining the relevant trade test
certificate. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence.
Do standby, work overtime when needed. Responsible to work in all Langeberg
facilities. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Conversant with the Occupational
health and safety act 1993 and its relevant regulations. Ability to fault-find and
repair down to component level. Competent with hands-on practical work.
Computer literacy in Microsoft Excel, Word and Power Point. Ability to work
under pressure and independently with good report-writing skills, conflict
management and interpersonal skills, as well as excellent verbal and written
communication skills. Sound knowledge of managing a workshop and staff
members including all maintenance facets.
DUTIES : Supervise staff in workshop and produce designs and with material and
equipment according to job specifications and standards. Carry out technical
investigations and surveys, develop repair solutions to plant, equipment and
maintenance problems and render technical advice and ensure quality
assurance of all work performed. Repair and install mechanical equipment at
Health facilities, plants and buildings according to standards. Keep register of
all work done, keep control of job cards and compile and submit reports as
required. Ensure adherence to safety standards, requirements and regulations.
Perform administrative duties and assist the assistant Director, PM & Facility
management with personal progress reports. Do the ordering, procurement
and control of maintenance material and equipment. The ability to perform
administrative duties and record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Rasmeni Tel No: (023) 626-8565
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will have to complete a competency assessment as part of the
interview process.
POST 24/300 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 TO 4 (PRODUCTION)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R338 208 per annum
Grade 2: R413 004 per annum
Grade 3: R496 668 per annum
Grade 4: R608 859 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification as a Social Worker
that allows for registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professionals (SACSSP). Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as Social Worker. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience in social work after
registration as a Social Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate experience in social work after registration as a Social
Worker with the SACSSP. Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years appropriate
experience in social work after registration as a Social Worker with the
SACSSP. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid Code B driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to render a clinical social work
practise as a member of a multi-disciplinary team in a Specialist Mental Health
Care setting. Sound knowledge and skills in psycho-social assessment, family
and individual counselling skills. Knowledge of relevant statutory processes.
Computer literacy, good verbal and written communication skills. Appropriate
experience in working with vulnerable populations.
217
DUTIES : Provide clinical social work services with regards to the care, support,
protection and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and
communities. Utilise specialist knowledge and skills to conduct psychosocial
assessments, counsel individuals and families, network effectively internally
with the multi-disciplinary team as well as with relevant external role players,
conduct appropriate referrals to relevant role players / stake holders, actively
contribute to development of care and safety plans. Deliver accountable
services through the application of the Social Work Administrative process.
Ensure continued professional development by keeping updated with
developments in the field.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mdunyelwa Tel No: (021) 826-5838 (Social Work Manager)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/301 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: VARIOUS
WARDS) (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. Or a 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends and public
holidays to meet the operational requirements. Willingness to rotate to other
departments if required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/
make decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good
communication, interpersonal, leadership and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(Clinical practice/ quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase Tel No: (021) 938-4000
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status).
POST 24/302 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: VARIOUS
WARDS) (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. OR A
3 year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South African
218
Nursing Council (SANC) as a General Nurse. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse or General Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, day & night duty, weekends and public holidays
to meet the operational requirements. Willingness to rotate to other
departments if required (excluding maternity). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function/ make decisions independently and as
part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication, interpersonal,
leadership and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(Clinical practice/ quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria
and indicators quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase Tel No: (021) 938-4000
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status).
POST 24/303 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(PROCUREMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/ competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Supply Chain Management. Appropriate experience and knowledge in Public
Sector Procurement and Supply Chain Management Processes and
Procedures. Appropriate experience in procurement functionality & the
utilization of the Electronic Procurement System (EPS), Essential Supplier List
(ESL) & Logistical Information System (LOGIS). Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work after hours if & when needed. Valid code B driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook). Sound communication, organisational, planning and
interpersonal skills. Sound knowledge of a Procurement Management
environment and financial systems of the Government (BAS, LOGIS).
Knowledge on matters related to Financial Administration (including legislation
and policy documents, i.e. PFMA, National Treasury Regulations, and
Provincial Instructions). Appropriate knowledge of relevant financial prescripts,
departmental policies, delegations and procedures. An aptitude for working
with financial figures and good organizational skills.
DUTIES : Demand and Acquisition Management of Goods and Services for the
Klipfontein & Mitchell’s Plain Substructure area. Assisting with the compilation
of specifications for various Goods and Services to meet the requirements of
the end-user. Attend briefing / site meetings if & when required. Sourcing
Quotations for Goods and Services via the EPS. Preparation of Procurement
Batches for the Quotation Committee. Prepare & complete orders. Processing,
expediting & the follow-up of Purchase Orders. Communication and Feedback
with Suppliers and End-users. Report on Procurement Related Transactions
on a weekly / monthly basis. Assist in the preparations of the Interim and
Annual Financial Statement. Adhere to all prescripts. Support Colleagues,
Supervisors / Managers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr QJ Vaughan Tel No: (021) 377-4363
219
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/304 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN (CASE MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate Experience in
a Case Management-related environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to rotate within Finance Section and relieve colleagues.
Willingness to work overtime when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (Microsoft Office) and Excel. Knowledge of Hospital Fees
Memorandum Chapter 18, UPFS, BAS, HIS, Clinicom, Accounts Receivable
(AR) System, JAC and Finance instructions. Knowledge of Basic Anatomy,
Physiology and ICD10 Coding. Strong sense of Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : Manage and control the Attendance Tracking Report to identify invoices for
auditing and billing. Obtain Medical Aid Authorizations for: Accommodation;
Specialized Radiology; High-Cost Medication. Audit and Finalize Billing for H2
& H3 patient categories. Manage State Department Debt (SANDF and
Correctional Services). Finalize charges on AR system as per billing
instructions (All UPFS Categories). Follow-up medical aid and non-medical aid
outstanding invoices in line with Hospital Fees Manual Chapter 18 and related
Finance Instructions. Filing in and out-patient registration forms, and all other
fees related to filing. Manual Suspension of invoices at time of Discharge /
where required General fees administration and account related
duties/enquiries. Relief for colleagues and undertake various other clerical
duties as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms HJ Van Graan Tel No: (021) 658-5007
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/305 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (PROFESSIONAL SUPPORT
SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Office of the Chief Director: Metro Health Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent
qualification). Experience: Appropriate experience in secretarial/ administrative
support/ office administration. Appropriate experience in document/records
management. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license and willingness to travel. Willingness to perform overtime when
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Computer literacy (MS Outlook, MS Word, MS Excel, MS
PowerPoint). Written and verbal communication; listening and typing skills.
Effective organising and record keeping skills. Analytical thinking and problem-
solving skills. Ability to negotiate; to work well in a team and to work under
pressure. Must be self-motivated and reliable.
DUTIES : Provide an office administrative support function. Events, workshop, project
and meeting management. Provide co-ordination of all administrative and
related functions. Provide logistical support. Support routine office processes
and system management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Hopkins Tel No: 021) 815-8696
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/306 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate Experience in
a Case Management-related environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to rotate within Finance Section and relieve colleagues.
Willingness to work overtime when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
220
Computer literacy (Microsoft Office) and Excel. Knowledge of Hospital Fees
Memorandum Chapter 18, UPFS, BAS, HIS, Clinicom, Accounts Receivable
(AR) System, JAC and Finance instructions. Knowledge of Basic Anatomy,
Physiology and ICD10 Coding. Strong sense of Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : Manage and control the Attendance Tracking Report to identify invoices for
auditing and billing. Obtain Medical Aid Authorizations for: Accommodation;
Specialized Radiology; High-Cost Medication. Audit and Finalize Billing for H2
& H3 patient categories. Manage State Department Debt (SANDF and
Correctional Services). Finalize charges on AR system as per billing
instructions (All UPFS Categories). Follow-up medical aid and non-medical aid
outstanding invoices in line with Hospital Fees Manual Chapter 18 and related
Finance Instructions. Filing in and out-patient registration forms, and all other
fees related to filing. Manual Suspension of invoices at time of Discharge /
where required General fees administration and account related
duties/enquiries. Relief for colleagues and undertake various other clerical
duties as and when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms HJ Van Graan Tel No: (021) 658-5007
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/307 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
West Coast Health District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Malmesbury CDC, Swartland Sub-district PHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in a health care environment. Appropriate
experience in a patient reception area. Appropriate experience in Health
Information Management and Health Related Information Systems. Inherent
requirements of the job: A valid driver’s license. Assist within the Sub- district
as needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge with regards
departmental information systems i.e., Health Information Systems, Ideal
Clinic, Sinjani, Tier.Net and PHCIS etc. Computer Literacy skills in MS Office
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, and Teams). Ability to interpret,
analyse and present health information. Appropriate knowledge of Health
Information Management processes.
DUTIES : Admission of clients open new folders, merging, filing, archiving and disposal
of folders. Ensure effective and efficient implementation of all applicable
policies, procedures, and instructions. Ensure accurate and daily capturing on
PHCIS and relevant electronic systems, scanning of tally sheets and capture
on Sinjani, (drawing of reports). Ensure accurate appointments are captured
on relevant systems. Ensure clients are admitted according to the appointment
system, assist with queue marshalling, management of compliments,
complaints, and suggestions. Provide support to the Administrative Officer and
Operational manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RA Christoffels Tel No: (022) 482-2729
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/308 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Health Warehouse, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competences that focus on the key
performance areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
managing and handling stock in a store/warehouse environment. Appropriate
experience in supply chain and warehouse management, including demand
planning, inventory optimization, supplier coordination, and maintaining
efficient storage and distribution systems. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to collate, verify data,
work accurately and methodically. Good interpersonal and organisational skills.
Computer skills (MS Word, Excel and Outlook). Knowledge and practical
experience in LOGIS or Basic Accounting System (BAS) Knowledge of
administrative and/or support duties in a store/warehouse.
DUTIES : Capture Log 1 requisitions and issue vouchers in compliance with the Standard
Chart of Accounts (SCOA). Perform demand and acquisition management
221
functions, including Direct Delivery Voucher (DDV) processes. Execute
responsibilities within the Electronic Procurement System (ePS), ensuring
adherence to procurement prescripts and compliance requirements. Prepare
bidding templates and supporting documentation for presentation to the
Quotation Committee. Coordinate the receipt, preparation, and
deliver/dispatch of clinical/non-pharmaceutical samples for evaluation,
including tracking and follow-up on evaluation outcomes. Compile and report
on stock on hand and dues-out, supporting effective inventory control and
planning. Maintain regular communication with suppliers and internal
stakeholders, ensuring timely follow-up on outstanding orders. Assist with
interim and annual financial reporting, including financial year-end processes.
Provide efficient warehouse support services, including stock handling and
administrative functions. Ensure strict adherence to and continuously maintain
up-to-date knowledge of applicable departmental policies, prescripts, and
procedures Performed ad-hoc administrative and operational support tasks as
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Botha Tel No: (021) 833-7623 or email:
Daniel.Botha@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/309 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (SURGERY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job: Will be required to work
shifts, night duty, weekends, public holidays as well as overtime. It will be
expected of the incumbent to rotate within the hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge nursing processes & procedures as outlined in
Nursing Act and SANC regulations. Training competencies include: Aseptic
technique, Wound dressing. Basic pharmacology and mathematical skills to do
calculation re dosages in medication. Basic principles of Health education.
Knowledge of the nursing Care Process. Knowledge of medical legal hazards.
Professionalism, good Interpersonal communication skills. Responsive, pro-
active, flexible, assertive and supportive. Leadership skills.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care. Provide basic clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Williams Tel No: (044) 802-4538
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subject to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
POST 24/310 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Saron Clinic, Drakenstein Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council:
222
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience
after registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Prepared to work at
different facilities within the Sub District inclusive a Mobile, when needed within
the community (COPC concept). Valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions
independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication
and interpersonal relationships. Basic Computer skills in MS Word and
Outlook. Knowledge of relevant nursing legislation, policies and protocols of
the Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Participate in infection
prevention and control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Williams Tel No: (021) 862-4520
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 24/311 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: NQF 3 (Grade 10 or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in maintenance, repairs, and assisting
artisans with equipment and building upkeep. Inherent requirement of the job:
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Perform standby duties and work overtime
when required. Must be physically fit to perform duties, to lift and load heavy
items. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Adherence to the Occupational
Health and Safety Act 1993 and its relevant regulations. Computer literacy and
good communication skills. Competent with hands–on practical work
experience. Ability to lean quickly and adapt to new tasks. Strong attention to
detail and committed to deliver quality work.
DUTIES : All repairs and general maintenance of equipment and buildings in the hospital.
Maintain equipment and work areas in a clean and safe condition. Assist
Artisans with maintenance, repairs, and installation projects. Complete and
return repair requisitions and further keep a record of all repairs. Assist in
ordering and controlling the materials and workshop tools. Train and develop
staff, and clean areas where work has been carried out.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Levy Tel No: (021) 902-8077
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/312 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT
West Coast Health District
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Matzikama PHC Support and Outreach (stationed at Vredendal Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum education qualification: Grade 10 (equivalent to Standard 8).
Experience: Appropriate experience in building, air-conditioning, refrigeration,
plumbing, painting, electrical, carpentry, maintenance and repairs. Appropriate
experience in workshop related tasks. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Ability to do stand-by duties. Willingness to assist
in all facilities in the sub district within the workshop set-up. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Adherence to the Occupational Health and Safety Act 1993
and its relevant regulations. Ability to operate industrial machinery and welding
tasks. Ability to communicate (written and verbal). Ability to handle heavy
equipment, heights and narrow spaces.
223
DUTIES : Support with maintenance and repairs of buildings, machinery equipment,
apparatus and repair of electrical, mechanical and plumbing installations.
Design, make and repair woodwork. Control and manage tools, stock and
equipment in workshop. Support and relief supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Rossouw Tel No: (027) 213-2039
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to do a practical test as part of the interview
process.
POST 24/313 : HEALTH PROMOTER
Garden Route District
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Bongolethu Clinic, Oudtshoorn Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in working in
communities. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence and willingness to travel within the Sub District. Willingness to assist at
other clinics due to operational needs. It is expected of the incumbent to assist
in communities and informal settlements. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Render a high standard of health education and support service to clients. Plan
and implement health projects in facilities, schools, and communities to meet
health objectives. Liaise with the community’s health coordinating structures,
departments, local government and other stakeholders to promote an
integrated approach to health care. Monitor and implement service delivery
programmes. An efficient support service to the Health Facility Manager with
respect to the adaptation of broad departmental policy to conform to the health
educational/promotional needs of patients and the surrounding community.
Ensure effective and efficient utilization of all available resources. Ensure a
purposeful integration health education and promotion service provision with
service provided (health facility, stakeholders and other community-based
services).
ENQUIRIES : Ms CW Lucas Tel No: (044) 274-0929
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written and oral assessment.
POST 24/314 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R181 230 per annum
Grade 2: R211 401 per annum
Grade 3: R249 141 per annum
CENTRE : Vanguard CHC (X1 post)
Retreat CHC (X1 post), Southern Western Sub-Structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years of appropriate/ recognizable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years of appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work overtime when necessary. Will be required to work
shifts, weekends, and public holidays. Must be prepared to assist in all
departments according to operational needs. Must be willing and able to assist
at other facilities within the Southern and Western Sub-Structure.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of nursing care and procedures,
nursing statutes, and other relevant legal frameworks. Must have good
communication skills. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care). To provide
elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial
resources. Maintain professional growth/ ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lingani Tel No: (021) 695-7242 or Ms Adams Tel No: (021) 713-9741
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
224
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 24/315 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC) GRADE1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R169 410 per annum
Grade 2: R223 614 per annum
Grade 3: R260 397 per annum
CENTRE : Lady Michaelis CDC (X1 Post)
Southern Western Sub-structure Office (Atlantis Ecosystem) (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant
qualification that allows registration with SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post Basic) (Institutional) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic).
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist’s
Assistant (Post-Basic). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Willingness to perform regular after-hours duties. Willingness
to travel between PHC facilities in the SWSS. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook), JAC, Medsas. Good Interpersonal and
communication skills. Ability to work as part of a team or independently. Ability
to work accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of
professionalism. Capable of adapting to seamlessly fit into changing working
environments.
DUTIES : Perform the following services or acts under the direct personal supervision of
a pharmacist: Assist with reading and preparation of a prescription, the
selection, manipulation or compounding of the medicine, the labelling and
supply of the medicine in an appropriate container following the interpretation
and evaluation of the prescription by a pharmacist. Assist with the provision of
instructions regarding the correct use of medicine supplied and information to
individuals to promote health. Assist with the distribution, control of and
ordering of medicine and scheduled substances. Assist with the compounding
or manufacturing of a non-sterile or sterile medicine or scheduled substance
according to a formula and standard operating procedures approved. Assist
with general housekeeping and administrative tasks. Support facilities with
managing and expanding chronic medicine access through all differentiated
models of care e.g. home deliveries of chronic medicine.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Walklett Tel No: (021) 202-0981
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 24/316 : HOUSEHOLD AID (WASTE MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in waste management in a Hospital/Clinic
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Compulsory shift work, flexible
225
hours, weekends, and public holidays. Physical, mentally, and emotionally fit
to provide essential services. Willingness to do manual Labour (push heavy
HCRW trolleys) and assist in other departments when required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to participate and work as part of a team. Knowledge
of healthcare waste regulations and OHS standards.
DUTIES : Perform internal transportation, handling, and disposal of waste in accordance
with established procedures and safety standards. Contribute to the
achievement of waste reduction and recycling targets through proper
segregation and compliance with waste management practices. Ensure the
correct and safe waste methods of waste segregation, storage, transport, and
disposal of waste. Ensure that the waste is collected in the prescribed
containers at the point of generation. Collect and manage all categories of
waste, including Health Care Risk Waste (HCRW), domestic/general waste,
and recyclable waste. Ensure HCRW containers are correctly weighed within
prescribed limits, properly sealed, and handled to prevent health and safety
risks. Maintain strict hygiene control of all waste handling equipment, trolleys,
and related materials. Ensure that all waste storage areas are kept clean,
orderly, and securely locked when not in use. Provide effective support and
assistance to service providers and ensure accurate record keeping of all
waste management activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Fredericks Tel No: (021) 658-5452
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 24/317 : FOOD SERVICE AID
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Nelspoort Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in preparing patient meals in hospitals environment.
Inherent requirement of the job: Physically strong to lift heavy objects and be
on their feet the entire day. Willingness to work shifts, weekends, overtime and
public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communicate skills
(read, speak and write). Appropriate knowledge of hygiene, occupational
health, HACCP and safety principles. The ability to prepare meals according to
standardized recipes.
DUTIES : Provision of food services, including pre-preparation and preparation of normal
and special diets as well as dishing up and distribution of the meals. Assist with
the receiving and storage of perishables and groceries. Implement and control
hygienic environment according to occupational health and safety prescripts
including infection control. Assist with the informal in-service training of new
employees in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Frieslaar Tel No: (023) 416 -1600
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
POST 24/318 : FOOD SERVICES AID
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic reading, writing and numerical skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a large-scale industrial food service unit. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends and public
holidays as required by operational needs. Ability to work in large scale
freezers and cold rooms. Be physically strong to lift heavy objects and be on
your feet the entire day. Dress according to Departmental specifications and
adhere to Hospital Policy. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Have knowledge
and understanding of the basic food groups and cooking methods. Knowledge
of the HACCP principles. Knowledge of Occupational, Health and Safety
principles and measures. Knowledge of Milk Kitchen Operation, Infant Feed
Production and storage.
DUTIES : Prepare, cook and plate meals for the patients. Clean and maintain the kitchen
area and equipment and maintain hygiene standards. Follow the Clean-as-
you-go principle. Maintain and report broken and faulty apparatus and
equipment. Responsible for preparing food according to standardised recipes.
226
Work alternative days in the Milk Kitchen as needed Assist with the in-service
training of new workers or colleagues. Support to Supervisor when required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Vermeulen Tel No: (021) 402-6224
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
227