PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 27 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 31 JULY 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING MONITORING AND EVALUATION: Kindly note that the
following Chief Director: Planning Alignment with Ref No:07/2026, Chief Director: Public
Service with Ref No: 07/2026, Senior Capacity Development Specialist with Ref No:
08/2026 and Head of Office of the Director-General with Ref No: 02/2026 were
advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 26 dated 24 July 2026, the closing date
has been amended the 17 August 2026. The candidates who already apply are not
required to re-apply.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE: DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL
DEVELOPMENT: Kindly note that the following position that was advertised in Public
Service Vacancy Circular 02 dated 23 January 2026 with closing date of 06 February
2026, Director: Community Development with Ref No: DSDFS 05/26 has been
withdrawn.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU NATAL: DEPARTMENT OF PUPLIC
WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE: Kindly note that the following posts were advertised
in Public Service Vacancy Circular 26 dated 24 July 2026, Works Inspector: Structural:
Centre, Harry Gwala-Ixopo with Ref No: WI/STRUCT/HG/SR26; Works Inspector:
Mechanical: uMgungundlovu-PMB with Ref No: WI/MECH/UMG/SR26, Requirements:
computer literacy and driver’s license was erroneously omitted. Administration Officer:
Acquisition: Zululand Sub-District, Nongoma with Ref No: AO/ZSD/ACQ/26 was
erroneously advertised with R413 001 per annum (Level 08). However, the approved
salary level for this post is R338 106 per annum (Level 07).
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO: DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND
CULTURE: hereby request for Erratum of the vacant advertised posts on Circular no.25
of 2026. The Limpopo Department of Sport, Arts and Culture herein extend the closing
date from the 10th of August 2026 to 24th of August 2026. The rest of the contents of the
advertisement remain unchanged.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE: DEPARTMENT OF
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT & TOURISM: Kindly note that the following post was
advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 26 dated 24 July 2026, Deputy Director
with Ref No: NCDEDAT/2026/06 (X1 Post). Please note that the Job Title of the position
is amended to: “Deputy Director: Communications”: NCDEDAT/2026/06 (X1 Post).
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
WORKS AND ROADS: Kindly note that the following X5 Posts were advertised in Public
Service Vacancy Circular 25 dated 17 July 2026 namely: Director: Financial Accounting
with Ref No: H/O 38/2026 (X1 Post), Centre: Head Office-Mahikeng, Director:
Management Accounting with Ref No: H/O 39/2026 (X1 Post), Centre: Head Office-
Mahikeng, Director: Human Resource Management with Ref No: H/O 40/2026 (X1 Post),
Centre: Head Office-Mahikeng, Director: Property Management (IAM), Ref No. H/O
41/2026 (X1 Post), Centre: Head Office-Mahikeng, Deputy Director: Financial Monitoring
& Reporting with Ref No: H/O 42/2026 (X1 Post), Centre: Head Office-Mahikeng; the
request is to extend the closing date from 31 July 2026 to 07 August 2026.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 04 - 06
BASIC EDUCATION B 07 - 10
CORRECTIONAL SERVICES C 11 - 23
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR D 24 - 28
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT E 29 - 30
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE F 31 - 33
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING G 34 - 39
HOME AFFAIRS H 40 - 43
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES I 44 - 45
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT J 46 - 61
MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES K 62 - 63
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE L 64 - 67
PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION M 68 - 71
PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION N 72 - 77
PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE O 78 - 80
TRANSPORT P 81 - 82
TREASURY Q 83 - 84
WATER AND SANITATION R 85 - 89
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
EASTERN CAPE S 90 - 138
FREE STATE T 139 - 142
GAUTENG U 143 - 147
KWAZULU NATAL V 148 - 162
MPUMALANGA W 163 - 170
NORTHERN CAPE X 171 - 177
NORTH WEST Y 178 - 197
WESTERN CAPE Z 198 - 222
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All
shortlisted candidates, for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. NB:
Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will
be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case
shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your application before the
closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate
applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for
each post. Due to high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt
of applications. Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
ERRATUM: kindly take that the following two (02) positions, namely: Chief
Director: Cooperatives Development with Ref No: 3/3/1/67/2025 advertised in
the Public Service Vacancy Circular 11 dated 27 March 2026 and Scientific
Technician Production Grade A with Ref No: 3/3/1/37/2026 advertised in the
Public Service Vacancy Circular 18 dated 29 May 2026, they are been
withdrawn. The Department likes to apologise for any inconvenience this
withdrawal might cause.
4
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/01 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION (GRADE A-C) REF NO: 3/3/1/64/2026
Directorate: Food Safety and Quality Assurance
SALARY : R791 604 – R1 189 767 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive package structured
in accordance with the OSD rules)
CENTRE : Western Cape: Stellenbosch
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and BSc Honours
(Chemistry). Compulsory registration with South African Council for Natural
Scientific Professions (SACNASP) as a Professional Natural Scientist. Job
Related Work Experience: Three (3) years post-qualification experience. Job
Related Knowledge: Applicants must have knowledge of Public Service and
Departmental prescripts/policies. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Agricultural Products Standard Act 119 of 1990. Liquor Product Act 60 of 1989.
Job Related Skills: Programme & project management. Scientific
methodologies. Research & development. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Data analysis. Computer-aided scientific applications. Technical report writing.
Creating a high-performance culture. Professional judgment. Presentation
skills. Mentoring. Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical skills.
Creativity. Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Networking. Computer literacy. People management.
Planning and organizing. Conflict management. Change management.
Problem solving and analysis. Extended working hours. Handling of hazardous
chemicals. A valid drivers’ license.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, systems and procedures. Identify (in
consultation with customers) needs for new methods of analysis. Identify gaps
and develop appropriate interventions. Provide scientific advice and support.
Develop working relations with client base. Provide scientific data, information
and advice as required. Review scientific publications. Perform scientific
analysis and regulatory functions. Conduct analysis of scientific data. Gather
and interpret data, evaluate results and disseminate information. Formulate
proposals and compile reports. Develop and customise scientific techniques.
Coordinate and conduct the routine testing of agricultural food. Research and
Development. Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Conduct basic and applied research.
Research/literature studies to improve expertise. Publish and present research
findings. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on science-related matters.
Human Capital and Development. Mentor, train and develop staff in order to
promote skills/knowledge transfer. Supervise scientific work and processes.
Manage the performance and development of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Xoliswa Tlali Tel No: (021) 809 1643
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SPrecruit64@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African, Coloured Males and persons with disability.
POST 27/02 : RESOURCE CONSERVATION INSPECTOR REF NO: 3/3/1/65/2026
Directorate: Climate Change and Disaster Risk Reduction
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Northern Cape: De Aar
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a National
Diploma in Agriculture/Environmental Management/Nature Conservation/Pest
Management (NQF 6). A minimum of two (2) years relevant experience. Job
Related Knowledge: Agricultural Pest Act, Natural Environmental Management
Act, Natural Environmental Management Biodiversity Act. Knowledge of policy
development. Public Service Act. Public Service Regulations, Public Finance
Management Act. Labour Relations Act, Water Act. Job Related Skills:
Geographical Information System skills. Policy development and analytical
skills. Research and monitoring skills. Leadership skills, Negotiation Skills,
Excellent communication skills (verbal, presentation and report writing).
Knowledge of project planning and management. Inspection and auditing
skills. Problem solving and analysis. Facilitation and coordination skills.
Computer skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion. A valid drivers’ license.
Ability to work extended hours. Extensive travelling.
5
DUTIES : Surveillance, assess, activate and monitor locust outbreak (control). Response
to locust outbreak reported to verify the outbreak. Conduct ecological risk
assessment in the area. Organise and plan control. Inspection and monitor
control units. Conduct post control evaluation (impact assessment). Identifying
and make recommendation for research needs. Manage the storage of
chemicals in the district locust areas Surveillance, assess, execute and monitor
blackfly outbreak. Monitor and evaluate blackfly larvae population. Identify the
position of the rapids (control site). Administer trial to determine the dosage
rate for each rapid in preparation of the control operations. Execute control
operation. Conduct post control monitoring and evaluation to determine the
impact of the control action. Identifying and make recommendation for research
needs/challenges and solution. Surveillance, assess, activate and monitor
quelea (bird) outbreak. Response to outbreak report for verification. Conduct
pre-inspection / evaluation to determine the extent of the outbreak, Conduct
the ecological risk assessment of the area. Plan, organise, co-ordinate and
manage control operation. Conduct post control monitoring for
remediiation/sanitary and evaluation of the impact. Identifying and make
recommendations for research needs/challenges and solutions. Conduct
training and awareness campaigns. Identify, planning and organising of
training. Training of prospective migratory pest outbreak controllers. Conduct
awareness campaign. Management of Migratory Pests Data. Capturing
outbreak data. Mapping of data areas.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Ikalafeng B Kgakatsi Tel No: (012) 319 6775
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
NCIrecruit65@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African, Coloured Females and persons with disability.
6
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF BASIC EDUCATION
The Department of Basic Education is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric
targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. Preference will be given to underrepresented groups as
per the DBE Employment Equity Targets. Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Submitted via post to: Private Bag X895, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-deliver to: The
Department of Basic Education, 222 Struben Street, Pretoria or you can email
your application
Sechele.O@dbe.gov.za/Monyela.N@dbe.gov.za/Segowa.M@dbe.gov.za/Ku
malo.N@dbe.gov.za. Please visit the Department of Education’s website at
www.education.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the most recently approved Z83 Application
for Employment Form, obtainable from the DBE Website or any Public Service
Department/Webpage. Use of the old Z83 Form will result in disqualification.
The Z83 must be completed in full and page 2 duly signed. A clear indication
of the post and reference number that is being applied for must be indicated
on your Z83. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 with a
detailed Curriculum Vitae (only). Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates on or before
the day of the interview. Successful candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset record checks,
qualification and employment verification including social media profiles).
Appointment is subject to positive results of the security clearance process.
The successful candidate will be required to sign an annual performance
agreement and, where applicable, annually disclose his/her financial interests.
All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of
interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may
be associated with. Applicants, who do not comply with the requirements
outlined above, will not be considered. A Pre-entry Certificate for the Senior
Management Service (SMS) (Nyukela Certificate) is required for all SMS
appointments; the full detail of the outlined requirements and course
information can be sourced by following the link
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course-SMS-pre-entry programme. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/03 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: MEDIA LIAISON AND NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL
COMMUNICATION REF NO: DBE/59/2026
Branch: Office of the Director-General
Chief Directorate: Media Liaison and National and Provincial Communication
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognised qualification at NQF level 7 in Communication,
Marketing, Public Relations or a related field, as recognised by SAQA. A
relevant NQF level 8 or higher qualification, as recognised by SAQA, will be an
added advantage. The incumbent must have a minimum of ten (10) years’
experience in communication, public relations, media liaison, marketing,
content development and/or internal communications, of which at least five (5)
years must have been at senior management level. Proven experience in
strategic communication, media liaison, public relations, stakeholder
communication, marketing campaigns, content development and internal
communications will be required. Experience in the education sector, public
7
sector, intergovernmental environment, or a similarly complex stakeholder
environment requiring high-level media liaison, crisis communication and
stakeholder management will be an added advantage. Process competencies:
Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem Solving and
Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication skills. Core
Competencies: Strategic Capacity and Leadership, People Management and
Empowerment, Financial Management and Change Management, promotion
communication, innovation and creativity, and the ability to prepare speeches.
The candidate must be confident, trustworthy, accurate, adaptable and
diplomatic. Applicants must have a valid driver’s licence and be willing to travel
extensively.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing effective
communication services to the Minister, the Department of Basic Education
(DBE) and Education Departments in the provinces; Responsible for leading
communication strategies for the Minister, DBE and provinces; Managing
communication campaigns; Managing urgent and unplanned communication
matters; Responding to deadlines and quality inputs; Overseeing and providing
strategic direction in the development and implementation of communication
channels and strategies for the Ministry, the Department of Basic Education
and Provincial Education Departments; Overseeing, implementing and
managing communication campaigns for the Department of Basic Education
and providing support to communication campaigns undertaken by the Ministry
of Basic Education, where required; Ensuring effective management and
utilisation of appropriate communication channels for the Ministry and the
Department of Basic Education; Building and sustaining a positive reputation
for the Ministry and the Department of Basic Education; Managing planned,
unplanned and urgent communication matters for the Ministry, where
requested, and for the Department of Basic Education; Arranging media and
press conferences; Responding to media enquiries; Responding timeously to
deadlines and providing quality inputs into matters that affect the Ministry and
the Department of Basic Education; Overseeing strategic content
development, public relations, stakeholder communication, media liaison and
internal communication functions in support of the Department’s priorities and
the broader basic education sector; Supporting delegated tasks from the
Minister, Deputy Minister, DG, HEDCOM and CEM; and ensuring proper
financial, administrative and personnel management. Ensuring that
appropriate financial, administrative and personnel management procedures
are in place and in accordance with the requirements of the Department of
Basic Education, relevant Public Service and Administration policies and the
Public Finance Management Act.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294/ Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291
POST 27/04 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: LEGAL AND LEGISLATIVE SERVICES REF NO:
DBE/60/2026
Branch: Finance and Administration
Chief Directorate: Legal and Legislative services
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor of Laws degree (LLB) or equivalent legal qualification
(NQF level 7) recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA);
Admission as an attorney or advocate in South Africa; The successful
candidate must be in good standing with the relevant professional regulatory
body. A minimum of 10 years’ relevant post-qualification legal experience, of
which at least 5 years must be at senior managerial level; Experience in the
interpretation, development, implementation and/or litigation of legislation,
policies and regulations within the education sector or a comparable public
sector environment; Demonstrable experience in education law, including
experience in advising on, developing, interpreting or implementing education
legislation, regulations or policy, is an essential requirement; Proven
experience in constitutional law, administrative law, legislative drafting and
regulatory development, public sector litigation and regulatory governance will
be an advantage; Knowledge of Administrative law and constitutional law as
applied to the education sector; Ability to deliver legal advisory services to
government departments, public entities or statutory bodies. Process
competencies: Knowledge management; problem-solving and analysis; client
orientation and customer focus; communication; negotiation; stakeholder
8
management; and risk management. Core Competencies The post requires a
person with excellent Strategic capability and leadership; people management
and empowerment; financial management; change management; programme
and project management; and service delivery innovation. leadership and
strategic management skills, Excellent written and verbal communication;
Computer skills; Research and policy formulation; Presentation skills;
Analytical and problem-solving skills; Candidates must be confident,
trustworthy, accurate, adaptable and diplomatic.: Strategic Capacity and
Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Financial Management
and Change Management, promotion communication.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing strategic leadership
and management to the Chief Directorate: Legal and Legislative Services,
comprising the Directorates: Litigation and Advisory Services and Legislative
Services. Provide high-level, independent and practical legal advice to the
Minister, Director-General and the Department on constitutional,
administrative, education and public law matters. Managing and overseeing
litigation involving the Minister, the Director-General and the Department,
including the development of litigation strategy, the instruction of the State
Attorney and external counsel, and the monitoring of court orders and
settlements. Leading and overseeing the drafting, amendment, interpretation
and implementation of education legislation, regulations and related legal
instruments. Coordinating and monitoring the Department’s legislative
programme and ensuring that proposed legislation and policy are
constitutionally and legally sound. Providing legal support, where appropriate,
to provincial education departments on matters affecting the national basic
education system. Advising on the legal mandates, governance and
administration of statutory bodies falling within the basic education portfolio.
Drafting, reviewing and negotiating national and international agreements,
memoranda of understanding and other legal instruments. Developing and
maintaining systems for legal risk management, compliance monitoring and
the implementation of legal opinions and court orders. Managing the Chief
Directorate’s human, financial and operational resources and ensuring
effective performance, accountability and service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294/ Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291
OTHER POST
POST 27/05 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR REF NO: DBE/50/2026 (X3 CONTRACT POSTS WITH
AN OPTION TO RENEW)
Branch: Delivery and Support
Chief Director: NEEDU
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicants must be in possession of an appropriate three-year (NQF level
6)post matric qualification or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA;
Four (4) years’ relevant experience as an Assistant Director or equivalent level
in the education sector; A sound knowledge of the education policy and
legislation environment; Must have a strong language competency in Sepedi,
Setswana or isiZulu; Knowledge of matrix and project management;
Experience in qualitative and/or quantitative research methodology; Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines; Ability to work independently without
supervision to meet targets; Sound analytical skills; Report writing and
presentation skills, including MS PowerPoint presentation skills; Strong
communication (verbal and writing) skills; Computer skills in MS Office (Word,
PowerPoint, Excel, Access and Outlook); Willingness to work extensive hours
and be prepared to travel; A valid driver’s licence; Passion to make a positive
contribution to South African education.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be liaising with district officials and school
management teams to prepare for evaluations/research; Conducting
independent research/evaluation in sampled schools, districts and provincial
offices following prescribed evaluation protocol and evaluation instruments;
Analysing data using appropriate qualitative and quantitative tools or
techniques; Providing a clear assessment of the state if teaching and learning
in all schools, districts and provincial offices evaluated, this will include
collecting and analysing data; As an integral part of a school evaluation
process, observe educators in practice using approved instruments; Writing,
9
editing and analysing reports as well as provide recommendations for
improvement; Collating reports from different members of the evaluation team;
Analysing research/evaluation reports to identify emerging trends within
districts and schools; Conducting document analysing and preparing reports
with recommendation regarding the course of action that the Basic Education
Sector needs to take; Verifying the findings of a school self-evaluation;
Contributing to standards setting in education; Sharing research findings in
different platforms and structures; Identifying problem areas within the basic
education sectors and outline action research, which seek to address them;
Performing any other functions as deemed appropriate by the Supervisor within
the ambit of labour law.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Monyela Tel No: (012) 357 3294/ Mr M Segowa Tel No: (012) 357 4291
10
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
The Department of Correctional Services is an equal opportunity employer. The Department will take into
consideration the objectives of Section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996
(Act 108 of 1996) and the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) in filling of these vacancies. It is
our intention to promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of
these positions. In support of this strategy, applicants need to indicate race, gender and disability status
on the application form/CV. Blacks and Whites are encouraged to apply. Applicants who have retired
from the Public Service with a specific determination that they cannot be re-appointed or have been
declared medically unfit will not be considered.
APPLICATIONS : Indicate the reference number and position you are applying for on your
application form (Z83) and send your complete application to: The Department
of Correctional Services, Post Advertisement Section, Private Bag X136,
Pretoria, 0001 OR hand deliver at: 124 WF Nkomo Street, Poyntons Building,
Corner WF Nkomo and Sophie De Bruyn Street, Pretoria, 0001 (Previous:
Corner Church and Schubart Street) OR you can submit your application online
at: https://careers.dcs.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 18 August 2026 @ 15h45. It is the sole responsibility of an applicant to ensure
that their application reaches the Department of Correctional Services before
closing date.
NOTE : Before you apply: All costs associated with an application will be borne by the
applicant. Please take note that correspondence will only be conducted with
the shortlisted candidates. If you have not been contacted within three (3)
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application is unsuccessful. Please do not call the department to enquire about
the progress of your application. A pre-entry certificate from the National School
of Government (NSG) is required from all applicants prior to appointment. The
full details of the SMS pre-entry course are obtainable on: Certificate for entry
into the SMS (Senior Management Service) | thensg Applicants must note
that further checks will be conducted once they are shortlisted and that their
appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which include
security clearance, security vetting, qualification/s and criminal records
verification. Appointment to some of these posts will be provisional, pending
the issue of a security clearance. If you cannot get a security clearance, your
appointment will be re-considered/possibly terminated. Fingerprints will be
taken on the day of the interview. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the department. Following the
interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessment). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tool. Applications: Applications must be submitted on the Z83 form
(Public Service application form) obtainable from any Public Service
department and must be completed in full. Only a detailed CV should be
attached to your application form. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies not older than 6 months of qualifications and other
related documents on or before the day of the interview. Please send a
separate and complete application for each post you are applying for, stating
the correct reference for each position you are interested in. Candidates must
comply with the minimum appointment requirements. CV’s should be aligned
to reflect one’s degree of compliance with the advert requirements and
responsibilities. The Department of Correctional Services reserves the right not
to fill any of these advertised posts.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/06 : CHIEF DEPUTY COMMISSIONER: INCARCERATION AND CORRECTIONS
REF NO: HO 2026/07/01
SALARY : R1 919 241 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
11
CENTRE : National Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A postgraduate qualification (NQF level 8) in Behavioural Sciences/ Social
Sciences/Public Administration or equivalent as recognised by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). (8) Years’ senior managerial level
experience in a similar environment. A certificate for entry into the Senior
Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) is compulsory (required from all applicants prior to
appointment). Security Clearance. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence.
Required Knowledge: Understanding of the dynamics of the Justice Cluster.
Understanding of the public service policy and related legislative framework
(Public Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance Management Act and
Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as amended). Competencies and
Attributes: Knowledge and understanding of Public Service policies and
mandates. Knowledge of all legislation, norms and standards that governs
health care. Understanding of DCS Environment, parole administration,
tracing, community mobilisation, corrections management, remand detention,
management of overcrowding, security, continuous risk assessment tool,
personal development, relevant prescripts, case management, social
cohesiveness, screening and assessment, care planning and coordination.
Quality improvement. PFMA – compilation of budgets, estimation, expenditure
and reporting. Applied strategic thinking, communication, project management,
presentations, report writing skills. Service delivery standards. Developing
others (coaching, mentoring, training). Project and programme management.
Decision making, problem solving, networking / liaison with stakeholders,
negotiation, organising, conflict management and analytical thinking. Policy
development, analysis, monitoring, evaluation and implementation advice.
Information collection.
DUTIES : Manage incarceration and design, develop and review policies, procedures
and guidelines for inmate management within the Department of Correctional
Services in line with the Correctional Services Act and the White Paper on
Corrections. Review and evaluate inmate management processes such as
inmate discipline, re-integration, and inmate investigations. Ensure effective
correctional security operations and the safe custody of all incarcerated
persons, while maintaining a safe and secure environment that supports the
rehabilitation of offenders and those under community corrections. Ensure safe
and secure DCS facilities and provide security standards services with respect
to DCS. Design, develop and facilitate infrastructure and facilities maintenance
programmes. Ensure that facilities are kept at required minimum standards set
out by the relevant legislation, national and local standards, in particular, DCS
requirements. Management of performance information. Management of
human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/07 : REGIONAL COMMISSIONER
SALARY : R1 919 241 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape region Ref No: HO 2026/07/02
Free State and Northern Cape region Ref No: HO 2026/07/03
REQUIREMENTS : A postgraduate qualification (NQF level 8) in Public Administration / Law /
Criminology / Social Sciences or equivalent qualification as recognised by
SAQA. A certificate for entry into the Senior Management Services (SMS)
obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is compulsory
(required from all applicants prior to appointment). 8 -10 years’ experience at
a senior managerial level. Sound knowledge of the SA Correctional System
and understanding the functioning of the Criminal Justice System. Computer
literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required Knowledge: Knowledge and
understanding of the South African Criminal Justice Systems and the
Correctional Services architecture. Understanding of public service policy and
related legislative framework (Public Service Act and Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act, with emphasis on the Correctional Services Act 111
of 1998 as amended). Competencies And Attributes: Strategic capability and
leadership. Service delivery innovation. Client orientation and customer focus.
Financial management. Change management. People management and
empowerment. Programme and project management. Communication skills
(verbal and written). Problem solving and decision making. Transformation
12
management. Influencing and impact. Policy development, facilitation, conflict
management and conceptual skills. Diversity management. Negotiation skills.
Confidentiality. Interpersonal relations and time management. Accountability.
Diplomacy and tact. Policy development and implementation. Good corporate
governance principles.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership in ensuring effective, efficient and economic
management of the region to realise policy outcomes. Manage the provision of
care programmes to maintain the personal well-being of offenders. Manage the
provision of programmes aimed at the development of offenders. Manage the
rendering of security services to personnel, service providers, public, offenders
and any other departmental operation. Management of Justice, Crime
Prevention, Security cluster and other stakeholders in the region. Manage the
development and implementation of after care services to offenders. Manage
the development and implementation of correctional programmes to correct
offending behaviour. Effective risk management to ensure compliance with the
risk management plan of the department. Management of human resources,
finance, assets and performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/08 : DEPUTY COMMISSIONER: DEVELOPMENT REF NO: HO 2026/07/04
SALARY : R1 582 272 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Behavioural Sciences/Social
Sciences or equivalent. 5 years’ experience at a Senior Managerial level in a
similar environment. A certificate for entry into the Senior Management
Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is
compulsory (required from all applicants prior to appointment). Security
Clearance. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required Knowledge:
Understanding of the dynamics of the Justice Cluster. Understanding of the
public service policy and related legislative framework (Public Service Act and
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act and Correctional Service Act 111
of 1998 as amended). Competencies and Attributes: Knowledge and
understanding of Public Service policies and mandates. Knowledge of all
relevant legislation, norms and standards. Applied Strategic Thinking,
Professional values and attitudes, Leadership interdisciplinary systems.
Knowledge of PFMA – compilation of budgets, estimation, expenditure and
reporting. Communication, presentation, report writing, problem solving,
negotiation and organising skills. service delivery standards. Developing others
(coaching, mentoring, training). Project and programme management.
Decision making. Networking/liaison with stakeholders. Conflict management.
Analytical thinking. Policy development, analysis, monitoring, evaluation and
implementation advice.
DUTIES : Manage the provision and delivery of psychological services within the
department. Manage, develop and design psychological programs for
offenders. Develop and manage therapeutic and counselling Services. Manage
the provision and delivery of social work services within the department.
Ensure the development, alignment, implementation of and compliance with
departmental policies, procedures and applicable legislation to social work
services. Ensure the provision, maintenance and enhancement of social work
programmes and services according to the set standard. Manage and
coordinate the provision and delivery of spiritual care services. Manage
spiritual care program design and development. Ensure implementation of
systems and tools for effective functioning of spiritual care. Management of
performance information. Management of human resources, finances and
assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/09 : DEPUTY COMMISSIONER: FACILITIES PLANNING AND PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT REF NO: HO 2026/07/05
SALARY : R1 582 272 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Head Office: Pretoria
13
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Building Sciences or
equivalent. Registration with Building related professional body. A certificate for
entry into the Senior Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National
School of Government (NSG) is compulsory (required from all applicants prior
to appointment). Five [5] Years of experience at a senior managerial level.
Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required Knowledge: Understanding
of the dynamics of the Justice Cluster. Understanding of the public service
policy and related legislative framework (Public Service Act and Regulations,
Public Finance Management Act and Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as
amended). Competencies and Attributes: Strategic capability and leadership.
Service delivery innovation. Client orientation and customer focus financial
management. Change management. People management and empowerment.
Pandramme and project management. Communication skills (verbal and
written). Problem solving and decision making. Transformation management.
Influencing and impact. Policy development, facilitation, conflict management
and conceptual skills. Diversity management. Negotiation skills. Confidentiality.
Interpersonal relations and time management. Accountability. Diplomacy and
tact. Policy development and implementation. Good corporate governance
principles.
DUTIES : Manage and ensure the upgrading of existing buildings, building of new
facilities or replacement of facilities. Manage the stakeholder relations with the
Department of Public Works and IDT. Provide leadership and strategic direction
within the Chief Directorate. Manage compliance to Government-wide
Immovable Asset Management Act (GIAMA). Establish cost-effective (i.e
maximum and minimum) size of correctional centres that include SIR project
and other projects. Management of performance information. Management of
human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/10 : DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: HO 2026/07/06
SALARY : R1 340 691 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in
Management Services, Operations Management, Human Resources
Management or equivalent qualification. Five (5) years middle/senior
management experience in the relevant field. A certificate for entry into the
Senior Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) is compulsory (required from all applicants prior to
appointment). Security clearance. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence.
Required Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of the South African
Criminal Justice System and the Correctional Services architecture.
Understanding of public service policy and related legislative framework (Public
Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance Management Act and the
Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as amended). Competencies and
Attributes: Transformation and change management. Knowledge of HR
policies, job evaluation and performance management. Establishment control
and PERSAL management. Organizational, training development and
employee’s performance. Understanding of Public Service policy and
legislative framework. Financial management skills, strategic capability and
leadership. Policy development, project and programme management.
Transformation and change management. Client orientation and customer
focus. Problem solving and analysis. Service delivery innovation and decision
making. People management, empowerment, integrity and honesty.
Confidentiality, interpersonal relations, assertiveness and ability to network.
Diplomacy, tactful, Influence and impact.
DUTIES : Design, develop and maintain the DCS organisational functional structure.
Conduct organisational assessments to identify structure gaps, duplications
and areas for optimisation. Develop and review functional structures aligned to
legislative frameworks, mandates and strategic objectives. Prepare
organisational design reports, motivation documents and structural map
updates. Ensure alignment of functional structures with approved business
processes and service delivery models. Design, develop and maintain the DCS
post establishment and related norms. Develop and update post establishment
frameworks, norms and standards based on organisational requirements.
14
Analyse workforce distribution to identify shortages, surpluses and optimisation
opportunities. Develop post provisioning models and scenario planning to
support decision making. Prepare and submit establishment reports for internal
and external stakeholders. Manage post provision and allocation of posts as
well as reporting thereof. Facilitate the allocation, reallocation and redistribution
of posts based on needs analysis. Review and approve requests related to
post creation, abolition, upgrading or transfers. Ensure that post allocation
processes comply with legislation, budget constraints and HR policies. Liaise
with finance to ensure coherence between funded posts and the compensation
budget. Manage and implement human resource planning strategies and
processes. Develop and implement the annual and MTF HR planning
frameworks. Conduct environmental scanning and workforce analysis to
determine HR risks and capacity requirements. Coordinate workforce
forecasting, succession planning and talent management support. Compile the
Workforce Plan and ensure submission in line with legislative requirements.
Monitor implementation of HR planning interventions and make
recommendations for improvement. Management of human resources,
finance, assets and performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/11 : DIRECTOR: CORE CURRICULUM REF NO: HO 2026/07/07
SALARY : R1 340 691 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in
Human Resources Development, Human Resource Management or
equivalent qualification. Five [5] years middle/senior management experience
in the relevant field. A certificate for entry into the Senior Management Services
(SMS) obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is compulsory
(required from all applicants prior to appointment). Security clearance.
Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required Knowledge: Knowledge and
understanding of the South African Criminal Justice System and the
Correctional Services architecture. Understanding of public service policy and
related legislative framework (Public Service Act and Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act and the Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as
amended). Competencies and Attributes: HR policies, transformation and
change management. Empathy, analytical and compliance. Organisational
development and training. Conflict resolution and employee’s performance.
Understanding of Public Service policy and legislative framework. Financial
management skills, strategic capability and leadership. Policy development
and programme management. Client orientation and customer focus. Problem
solving and analysis. Service delivery innovation and decision making. People
management and empowerment. Integrity and honesty. Confidentiality,
interpersonal relations and assertiveness. Ability to network, diplomacy and
tactful.
DUTIES : Develop and maintain curriculum and DCS training units. Develop processes
for all core curriculum programmes, ensuring alignment with organisational
objectives and occupational standards. Review and update training curricula
regularly to ensure they remain relevant, competency-based and aligned to
legislative changes. Conduct research and benchmarking on training best
practices to inform curriculum enhancement. Coordinate curriculum
development workshops with subject matter experts and instructors. Provide
support and guidance to training units on curriculum implementation and
interpretation. Manage the provision of basic training in line with the Correction
Service Learnership. Ensure that all basic training curricula and learning
materials meet NQF and SAQA standards and requirements. Coordinate the
scheduling, delivery and administration of basic training programmes across
training centres. Oversee the monitoring and evaluation of basic training to
assess quality, learner progress and programme effectiveness. Facilitate and
monitor both theoretical and workplace experiential learning phases in
accordance with learnership guidelines. Ensure that programme
implementation aligns with departmental training policies and legislative
frameworks. Support trainers and facilitators through capacity-building
initiatives and provision of required resources. Manage the provision of
orientation and induction. Manage the review, updating and quality assurance
15
of the orientation and induction manual to ensure relevance and accuracy.
Plan, coordinate and oversee the implementation of the orientation and
induction programme. Provide guidance and support to facilitators responsible
for delivering induction sessions. Ensure proper documentation, attendance
records and evaluation reports are maintained. Ensure effective management
and administration of colleges and the provision of firearm training in line with
the Firearms Control Act. Ensure that firearm training curricula and learning
materials comply with the Firearms Control Act and other regulatory
requirements. Ensure consistent monitoring and evaluation of firearm training
to assess learner competence and training effectiveness. Manage the
verification and assessment processes related to firearms competency
certification. Ensure compliance with departmental policies, statutory
requirements and safety protocols relating to firearm use and training. Conduct
risk assessments and ensure that training facilities meet safety and security
standards. Management of human resources, finance, assets and
performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/12 : DIRECTOR: FORMAL EDUCATION AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
HO 2026/07/08
SALARY : R1 340 691 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in
Education/Social Sciences or equivalent. A certificate for entry into the Senior
Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) is compulsory (required from all applicants prior to
appointment). Five [5] years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level in
a similar environment. Security clearance. Computer literate. Valid driver’s
licence. Required Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of the South
African Criminal Justice System and the Correctional Services architecture.
Understanding of public service policy and related legislative framework (Public
Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance Management Act and the
Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as amended). Competencies And
Attributes: Knowledge of all legislation, norms and standards that governs
education and skills development. Knowledge of PFMA – compilation of
budgets, estimation, expenditure & reporting. Understanding of DCS
environment. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service policies and
mandates. Understanding of justice cluster. Knowledge of relevant prescripts,
social cohesiveness and quality improvement. Applied strategic thinking and
networking/liaison with stakeholders. Project management and analytical
thinking. Presentation and report writing skills. Service delivery standards.
Developing others (coaching, mentoring, training). Decision making, problem
solving, negotiation and organising. Communication and conflict management.
Policy development, analysis, monitoring, evaluation and implementation
advice.
DUTIES : Manage, develop and design Formal Education curriculum programs in line
with South African Qualification Authority standards (SAQA). Manage, develop
and design formal education curriculum programs and strategies for offenders.
Manage formal curriculum administration for offenders. Develop and manage
the rollout of formal education and training of offenders in line with frameworks
and departmental policies and procedures. Manage the coordination of formal
training. Manage, develop and design skills development curriculum programs
and strategies for offenders in line with South African Qualification Authority
standards (SAQA). Manage skills development curriculum administration for
offenders. Manage and ensure proper research and development of the
program. Develop and manage the rollout of skills development training for
offenders in line with relevant legislation, regulations, frameworks and
departmental policies and procedures. Manage the coordination of the skills
training. Identify risk factors and ensure monitoring and evaluation of formal
education and skills development programs services. Develop strategies for
monitoring and evaluation of the formal education and skills development
programs. Ensure the effective and efficient management skills development
monitoring tools. Management of human resources, finance, assets and
performance information.
16
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/13 : DIRECTOR: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: HO 2026/07/09
SALARY : R1 340 691 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Social
Work or equivalent. Five [5] years of experience at a middle/senior managerial
level in a similar environment. Registration with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as a Social Worker. A certificate for entry
into the Senior Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National
School of Government (NSG) is compulsory (required from all applicants prior
to appointment). Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required Knowledge:
Knowledge and understanding of the South African Criminal Justice System
and the Correctional Services architecture. Understanding of public service
policy and related legislative framework (Public Service Act and Regulations,
Public Finance Management Act and the Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998
as amended). Competencies and Attributes: Knowledge of professional
counselling and social work services. Building and sustaining relationships in
primary health care. Strategic capability and leadership. Service delivery
innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. Financial management.
Change management. People management and empowerment. Programme
and project management. Communication skills (verbal and written). Problem
solving and decision making. Transformation management. Influencing and
impact. Policy development, facilitation, conflict management and conceptual
skills. Diversity management. Negotiation skills. Confidentiality. Interpersonal
relations and time management. Accountability. Diplomacy and tact. Policy
development and implementation. Good corporate governance principles.
DUTIES : Manage, develop, design, implementation, administration and evaluation of
services and programmes in line with relevant legislation, regulations,
frameworks and departmental policies and procedures. Manage social support
services. Manage and monitor the coordination of special categories for
inmates. Ensure the coordination of outreach programmes to educate others
about psychosocial related problems. Plan and ensure that social work
research is undertaken. Liaise and attend meetings with external stakeholders
as part of stakeholder engagement. Management of human resources,
finances, assets and performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/14 : DIRECTOR: AREA COMMISSIONER
SALARY : R1 340 691 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape region: East London Ref No: HO 2026/07/10)
Free State and Northern Cape region: Colesburg Ref No: HO 2026/07/11
Limpopo, Mpumalanga and North West region: Bethal Ref No: HO 2026/07/12
Western Cape region: West Coast Ref No: HO 2026/07/13
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Public Administration / Law /
Criminology / Criminal Justice / Social Sciences or equivalent qualification as
recognised by SAQA. A certificate for entry into the Senior Management
Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is
compulsory (required from all applicants prior to appointment). Five [5] years
of experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Computer literate. Valid
driver’s licence. Required Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of the
South African Criminal Justice System and the Correctional Services
architecture. Understanding of public service policy and related legislative
framework (Public Service Act and regulations, Public Finance Management
Act, with emphasis on the Correctional Services Act 111 of 1998 as amended).
Competencies and Attributes: Strategic capability and leadership. Programme
and project management. Financial, change and diversity management.
Knowledge management and service delivery innovation. Problem solving and
analysis. People management and empowerment. Client orientation and
customer focus. Communication. Honesty and integrity.
17
DUTIES : Oversee the effective functioning of incarceration and corrections, parole
boards, corporate services, development programmes, care services,
correctional centres and community corrections within the management area.
Oversee the administration of security systems/programmes including
comprehensive risk assessments and programmes to ensure safety. Ensure
the implementation and adherence to policies and procedures within the
management area. Establish and maintain effective relationships with key
stakeholders within the geographical location of the management area.
Effective management of court appearance of remand detainees. Management
of the operational risks within the management area. Management of human
resource, finance and assets. Promotion of social responsibility and
development of all offenders and parolees subjected to community corrections.
Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/15 : REGIONAL HEAD: FINANCE
SALARY : R1 340 691 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Gauteng Region Ref No: HO 2026/07/14
Western Cape Region Ref No: HO 2026/07/15
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Accounting / Financial Management / Cost Management Accounting or
equivalent qualification. A certificate for entry into the Senior Management
Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is
compulsory (required from all applicants prior to appointment). Five [5] years
of experience at a middle/senior managerial level in a similar environment.
Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required Knowledge: Knowledge and
understanding of the South African Criminal Justice System and the
Correctional Services Architecture. Understanding of public service policy and
related legislative framework (Public Service Act and Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act, with emphasis on the Correctional Service Act 111
of 1998 as amended). Competencies and Attributes: Financial management
skills. Strategic capability and leadership. Policy development.
Communication. Project and programme management. Transformation and
change management. Client orientation and customer focus. Problem solving
and analysis. Service delivery innovation. Decision making, people
management and empowerment. Integrity and honesty. Confidentiality.
Interpersonal relations. Understanding of Public Service policy and legislative
frameworks. Assertiveness and ability to network. Diplomacy, tactful, influence
and impact.
DUTIES : Support and advice the Regional Commissioner and senior managers on
finance and supply chain management matters. Effective management of
financial accounting. Effective management of management accounting.
Effective management of logistic administration. Effective management of
procurement and contract management processes. Management of the
external audit process. Effective risk management to ensure compliance with
the risk management plan of the DCS. Management of performance
information. Management of human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/16 : REGIONAL HEAD: INCARCERATIONS, CORRECTIONS AND
REHABILITATION
SALARY : R1 340 691 per annum (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region Ref No: HO 2026/07/16
Western Cape Region Ref No: HO 2026/07/17
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Behavioural Science or equivalent qualification. A certificate for entry into the
Senior Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) is compulsory (required from all applicants prior to
appointment). Five (5) years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level.
Security clearance. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required
Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of the South African Criminal
18
Justice System and the Correctional Services architecture. Understanding of
public service policy and related legislative framework (Public Service Act and
regulations, Public Finance Management Act, with emphasis on the
Correctional Services Act 111 of 1998 as amended). Competencies and
Attributes: Strategic capability and leadership. Policy development,
communication, project and programme management, transformation
management, change management, client orientation and customer focus.
Problem solving and analysis, service delivery innovation, decision making and
financial management skills. People management and empowerment.
Integrity, honesty, confidentiality and interpersonal relations. Understanding of
Public Service policy and legislative framework. Assertiveness, ability to
network, diplomacy, tactful, influence and impact.
DUTIES : Ensure a safe and secure environment for members of the public, personnel
and persons legally entrusted to our care. Manage health care services and
incarceration management. Manage and oversee self-sufficiency and
sustainability programs and services. Management of human resources,
finances and assets. Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/17 : AREA COORDINATOR: FINANCE REF NO: HO 2026/07/18
SALARY : R1 340 691 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Region: Durban Management Area
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Financial and Management Accounting or equivalent. Five (5) years of
experience at a middle/senior managerial level in a similar environment. A
certificate for entry into the Senior Management Services (SMS) obtained from
the National School of Government (NSG) is compulsory (required from all
applicants prior to appointment). Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence.
Required Knowledge: Understanding of the dynamics of the Justice Cluster
and White Paper on Corrections in South Africa and White Paper on Remand
Detainees. Understanding of public service policy and related legislative
framework (Public Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance Management
Act, with emphasis on the Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as amended).
Understanding of Treasury Regulations, Tax Legislation, BAS system, LOGIS,
PERSAL and Supply Chain Management processes. Competencies and
Attributes: Communication skills. Financial and management accounting
knowledge. Managerial skills. Change management skills. Strategic
leadership. Understanding of broader public service transformation processes.
Good interpersonal relations. Ability to network. Integrity and honesty. Service
delivery and client orientation. Project and programme management. Ability to
make and implement decisions.
DUTIES : Manage and render supply chain management services in the management
area. Coordinate the rendering of procurement and demand services. Render
logistics and disposal management services. Manage and render financial and
management accounting services in the management area. Manage and
monitor the effective utilisation of the management area budget. Manage the
collection of revenue in the management area. Manage and render financial
accounting services in the management area. Render and monitor expenditure
control. Develop and implement strategies to ensure compliance to set internal
controls within the department. Management of performance information.
Management of human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/18 : REGIONAL HEAD: FACILITIES REF NO: HO 2026/07/19
SALARY : R1 340 691 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape region
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Building Science or equivalent. A certificate for entry into the Senior
Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) is compulsory (required from all applicants prior to
appointment). Five [5] years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level
19
in a similar environment. Registration with the relevant professional council of
South Africa will be an added advantage. Security clearance. Computer
literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required Knowledge: Knowledge and
understanding of the South African Criminal Justice System and the
Correctional Services architecture. Understanding of public service policy and
related legislative framework (Public Service Act and Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act, with emphasis on the Correctional Service Act 111
of 1998 as amended). Competencies and Attributes: Programme and project
management. Engineering, legal and operational compliance. Engineering and
operational communication. Process knowledge and skills, mobile equipment
operating and maintenance skills and knowledge. Engineering design and
analysis knowledge. Research and development. Computer aided engineering
applications. Creating high-performance culture. Technical consulting.
Engineering and professional judgement. Strategic capability and leadership.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity.
Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication,
people management, planning, organising, conflict management and
negotiation skills. Change management.
DUTIES : Responsibilities: The coordination of policy. Implementation of new policies,
procedures and standards. Monitoring of effectiveness of policies, procedures
and standards. Maintain operational effectiveness. Implement maintenance
strategy through the provision of appropriate structures, systems and
resources. Quality assessment of facilities. Assessment of facilities on a
continuous basis to ensure that proper maintenance is carried out and
documented and maintenance teams are properly trained, housed, financed
and equipped for their task. Ensure adherence to OHS Act. Ensure training is
affected as required by the OHS Act. Ensure continuous updating of the
building and maintenance programme for the region. Ensure that priorities in
the building and maintenance programme are still in line with departmental
strategies and objectives. Ensure the effective and cost-efficient provision of
municipal services in the region. Ensure that payment for services are done in
a timeous manner. Management of human resources, finances and assets.
Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/19 : DIRECTOR: HEAD OF CORRECTIONAL CENTRE REF NO: HO 2026/07/20
SALARY : R1 340 691 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Gauteng region: Johannesburg Medium B
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Public
Administration or equivalent. Five (5) years of experience at a middle/senior
managerial level. A certificate for entry into the Senior Management Services
(SMS) obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is compulsory
(required from all applicants prior to appointment). Top secret security
classification will be an added advantage. Successful completion of corrections
science learnership/basic training. Experience and knowledge of the South
African Correctional System and Criminal Justice System. Computer literate.
Valid driver’s licence. Required Knowledge: Understanding of the dynamics of
the Justice Cluster. Understanding of public service policy and related
legislative framework (Public Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), with emphasis on the Correctional Service Act 111
of 1998 as amended). Relevant experience in regulatory framework governing
public service planning processes. Extensive experience in collective
bargaining mechanisms and traceable experience in ensuring efficient and
effective human resource management. In-depth knowledge and experience
of the human resources legislation and regulatory framework. Competencies
And Attributes: Strategic capability and leadership. Communication skills
(verbal and written). Financial and transformation management. Policy
development. Project and programme management. Facilitation. Change
management. Problem solving and decision making. Time management and
customer focus. Honesty and integrity. Coaching and mentoring. Good work
ethics. Confidentiality. Interpersonal relations. Ability to work long hours.
Diplomacy and tactful. Influence and impact. Accountability. Willingness to
travel.
20
DUTIES : Management of all aspects of the Correctional Centre on a day to day basis
through the implementation of the Correctional Services Act, Act 111 of 1998
as amended. Manage the implementation of the imperatives of the White Paper
on Corrections. Management of case management administration, security,
development and care, unit management and case management committees
by ensuring that admission and releases are conducted, property store is
secured and reconciliation of offender’s cash, fines and bail payments. Manage
operational support services. Foster a working relationship with the Justice
Cluster and the community. Monitor, evaluate and take appropriate action in
relation to outcomes on the risk trends. Manage internal security by ensuring
that standby lists are available, sufficient security in centre and searching is
done continuously according to registers etc. Manage external security by
ensuring that utilization of offenders at work teams, officials are performing
guard duty and manning of tower posts. Manage the development and care
functions of offenders. Manage social work services, spiritual/moral
development, health functions and hospital services for inmates. Ensure that a
consistent system of activities within the centre is developed and regular
committee sittings do take place. Management of performance information.
Management of human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/20 : DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REF NO: HO 2026/07/21
SALARY : R1 340 691 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 07) as recognised by SAQA in
Information and Knowledge Management or equivalent. Five (5) years’
experience at middle/senior managerial level in a similar environment. A
certificate for entry into the Senior Management Services (SMS) obtained from
the National School of Government (NSG) is compulsory (required from all
applicants prior to appointment). In-depth knowledge of information and
records management. Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required
Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of the South African Criminal
Justice System and the Correctional Services architecture. Understanding of
public service policy and related legislative framework (Public Service Act and
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act and the Correctional Service Act
111 of 1998 as amended). Competencies and Attributes: Understanding of
Public Service policy and legislative framework. Strategic capability and
leadership. Training and development. Project and programme management.
Financial management and Transformation management. Change
management. High level of integrity and honesty. Coaching and mentoring.
Good work ethic. Confidentiality. Interpersonal relations. Service delivery and
client orientation. Accountability. Plan, organise, lead and control. Policy
development. Diversity management. Facilitation, communication, conceptual,
problem solving, decision making and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Information governance and records management. Oversee implementation of
departmental records management framework. Oversee knowledge
management and institutional learning. Manage knowledge management
strategy implementation. PAIA Administration and access to information.
Management of PAIA requests. POPIA compliance and personal information
protection. Develop and implement POPIA policies, procedures and
compliance roadmap. Capacity building and compliance culture. Develop and
implement training and awareness programmes. Management of performance
information. Management of human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/21 : DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE REF NO: HO
2026/07/22
SALARY : R1 340 691 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Finance/ Auditing/ Supply Chain Management. A certificate for entry into the
21
Senior Management Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of
Government (NSG) is compulsory (required from all applicants prior to
appointment). A minimum of five [5] years’ experience at middle/senior
managerial level within the relevant field. Computer literate. Valid driver’s
licence. Required Knowledge: Knowledge and understanding of the South
African Criminal Justice System and the Correctional Services architecture.
Understanding of public service policy and related legislative framework (Public
Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance Management Act and the
Correctional Service Act 111 of 1998 as amended). Competencies and
Attributes: Knowledge of financial prescripts (MCS and GRAP). Knowledge of
Public Service financial legislative frameworks, Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), National Treasury Regulations (Directives, instruction notes and
guidelines), budget management processes and procedures and supply chain
management framework. Knowledge and understanding of Government
Financial systems (PERSAL, LOGIS, BAS). Knowledge of asset management,
procurement and business practices. Knowledge of strategic planning,
budgeting, auditing and risk management. Stakeholder engagement and
change management. Strategic capability and leadership. Programme and
project management. Financial management. People management and
empowerment. Ability to develop, interpret and apply policies, strategies and
legislation. Problem solving, communication and analysis skills.
DUTIES : Ensure effective monitoring of compliance with the Treasury Regulations,
Modified Cash Standard or Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP)
and other Prescripts impacting on Finance and Supply Chain Management
(SCM). Ensure sound internal controls and reporting systems through
conducting assessments, determination on finance and supply chain systems
for non-compliance. Provide a framework for financial and supply chain risk
assessment through the development and overseeing of systems for uniform
handling of non-compliance issues and proper reporting. Ensure effective audit
coordination, both for Internal Audit and the office of the Auditor-General of
South Africa for timeous resolution of audit queries. Manage the provision of
fraud prevention and loss management. Provide a monthly report to National
Treasury and the Chief Financial Officer on reported cases of irregular, fruitless
and wasteful expenditure. Oversee and monitor the implementation of
compliance programs. Management of performance information. Management
of human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
POST 27/22 : DIRECTOR: FACILITIES FUND MANAGEMENT REF NO: HO 2026/07/23
SALARY : R1 340 691 per annum, (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : National Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Public
Administration / Business Management / Administration / Business
Administration or equivalent. A certificate for entry into the Senior Management
Services (SMS) obtained from the National School of Government (NSG) is
compulsory (required from all applicants prior to appointment). Five [5] Years
of experience at a middle/senior managerial level in a similar environment.
Computer literate. Valid driver’s licence. Required Knowledge: Understanding
of the dynamics of the Justice Cluster, White Paper on Corrections in South
Africa and White Paper on Remand Detainees. Understanding of Public
Service Policy and related legislative framework (Public Service Act and
Regulations and Public Finance Management Act). Competencies and
Attributes: Strategic capability and leadership. Service delivery innovation.
Client orientation and customer focus. Financial management. Change
management. People management and empowerment. Programme and
project management. Communication skills (verbal and written). Problem
solving and decision making. Transformation management. Influencing and
impact. Policy development, facilitation, conflict management and conceptual
skills. Diversity management. Negotiation skills. Confidentiality. Interpersonal
relations and time management. Accountability. Diplomacy and tact. Policy
development and implementation. Good corporate governance principles.
DUTIES : Effective management of members’ financial and other interests by ensuring
sound financial management of the fund. Assist regions in the establishment
of clubs and setting up trading points. Effective management of the widow and
22
orphan fund. Management of the Protea–Karridene agreement and fund
modernisation projects. Continuously ensuring compliance with all policies,
rules and regulations within the department and those affecting the fund.
Effective risk management to ensure compliance with the risk management
plan. Efficient and effective management of the national sport fund and interest
free study loans. Report on quarterly basis to the board of trustees on the funds’
strategic issues and developments. Ensuring that treasurers are trained on the
applicable finance systems/software as well as on general financial
management. Management of performance information. Management of
human resources, finances and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TP Ngobeni Tel No: (012) 305 8589 or Ms NS Khumalo Tel No: (012) 307
2174
NOTE : Appointment under the Correctional Service Act
23
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one attachment. Zipped, IMG and JPEG
documents will not be accepted. indicate the correct job title and the reference
number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email
address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
requirements for application of Senior Management Services (SMS) include
the successful completion of an SMS Pre-entry programme (Nyukela) as
endorsed by the National School Government (NSG). Prior to appointment, a
candidate should therefore have proof that they have registered for the Pre-
Entry Certificate and have completed the course. The cost for Nyukela is at the
applicant’s own expense. The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to
a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and
interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric
assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences,
emotional intelligence, and integrity. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your information will be used soley for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate
will be expected to sign a performance agreement. The Department is an equal
24
opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the
Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s)
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/23 : CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REF NO: HR4/26/08/01HO
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Supported Employment Enterprise, Silverton
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 as Recognized by SAQA in Business
Administration / Public Management / Business Management / Commerce /
Economics / Industrial Engineering / Mechanical Engineering / Manufacturing
Management / Operations Management / Public Management. A valid driver’s
licence. Five (5) years experience at a Senior Managerial level in the
manufacturing or operations environment. Knowledge: Manufacturing and
production, Planning, evaluating and governance, Treasury Regulations,
Sound Support Employment Enterprise concepts, Employment and labour
Market challenges in South Africa, National Development goals, Public Service
Act, Finance, Human resource, Operations and marketing, Research and
development. Skills: Leadership, Planning and organising, Communication,
Diversity management, Computer literacy, Analytical, Presentation,
Interpersonal, Report writing, Leadership, Networking.
DUTIES : Lead and direct the implementation of the Enterprise’s strategic plan, business
plan and objectives. Ensure sound corporate governance, risk management
and compliance. Lead and direct all Operations of the Enterprise. Drive
business development, market positioning and Enterprise growth. Lead and
direct performance monitoring, evaluation and Enterprise reporting. Provide
Strategic leadership, support and advice to the SEE regarding financial
management functions and ICT practices. Lead the management of human
Resource Operations in the Enterprise. Lead the management of Human
Resource Development, Performance Management and Employee Health and
Wellness functions in the Enterprise.
ENQUIRIES : DDG: PES, Mr S Morotoba Tel No: (012) 309 4783
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Head Office: Private Bag X117, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 215 Francis Baard Street, Pretoria or email: Jobs-HQ10@labour.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/24 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION REF NO:
HR4/26/08/02HO
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all- inclusive salary package)
CENTER : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at (NQF 6) as recognised by SAQA in Information and
Communication Technology / Computer Science / Information Science. Cobit/
ITIL Fundamentals, CCNA, CompTIA Security+, Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH)
and CompTIA CySA+ are added advantage. Five (5) years functional
experience in the ICT / IT environment. Knowledge: Public Finance
Management Act, Technical standards / procedures, Departmental Policies
and procedures, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Batho Pele principles.
Skills: Communications, Analytical thinking, Process improvement, Strategic
Management, Leadership, Innovative, Transmission and propagation,
Understanding Modulation schemes, Data representation and prorocols.
DUTIES : Establish and implement processes and procedures of ICT Strategy and
technical policy matters. Manage and support telecommunications
environment. Manage the national integrated voice network (VOIP) for both
landline and cell phones. Design, Implement and manage shared data, Access
Point Network (APN) and Mobile Networks. Manage cybersecurity operations
within the Department. Manage all resources of the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Chabalala Tel No: (012) 309 4967
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Head Office: Private Bag X117, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 215 Francis Baard Street, Pretoria or email: Email: Jobs-
HQ24@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets-priority will be given to African males and females, Coloured males
and females, Indian females and People with Disabilities.
25
POST 27/25 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HRD AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR 5/1/2/3/17
(24 Months Contract)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Human
Resource Management / Human Resource Development. 5 years’ functional
experience in Human Resource Development & Performance Management of
which 2 years at Assistant Director level in Human Resource Development &
Performance Management environment. Knowledge: Performance
Management Methodology, Principles and strategies. Digital Acumen /
Relevant HRM system / Learning Systems / Performance Systems, etc. Del
and Compensation Fund business strategies and goals. COIDA. DPSA
Directives. Customer Service principles (Batho- Pele Principles). Technical
knowledge. Budgeting and Financial Management. Labour Relations Act.
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). National Treasury regulations.
Promotion of Access to Information Act. Promotion of the Administrative Justice
Act (PAJA). Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS). Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPI). Legislative Requirement: Public Service Act.
Public Service Regulations. Skills: Coaching and Mentoring. Conflict
Management. Critical and Innovative Thinking. Inspire Commitment. People
Management. Performance and Oversight. Quality Assurance. Risk
Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Stakeholder Development &
Relations. Programme/Project Planning & Management. Monitoring and
assurance. Research and Development.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor the development of workplace skills plan in the Fund.
Manage the implementation of Human Resource Development Strategies.
Manage the implementation of the developmental programmes and provision
of training initiatives for the Fund. Manage the execution and implementation
of the performance management systems for the Fund. Manage the resources
in the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms VH Masemola at 082 520 3935
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to Email: Jobs-CF23@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
POST 27/26 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
HR5/1/2/3/18
(24 Months Contract)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognised by SAQA in Human
Resources Management / Training & Development/Management of Training. 4
years’ functional experience in Skills Development of which 2 years at a
supervisory level. Knowledge: Performance Management Methodology,
Principles and Strategies. Digital Acumen/ Relevant HRM systems / Learning
Systems / Performance Systems etc. Del and Compensation Fund business
strategies and goals. Customer Strategic Framework. White paper on the
transformation of the Public Service, 1995. White paper on Public Service
Education and Training, 1997. Legislative Requirement: Skills Development
Act. Skills: Data Gathering, Analysis. Data/Record Management. Research
and Benchmarking. Coaching and Mentoring. Conflict Management. Critical
and innovative Thinking. Inspire Commitment. People Management.
Performance and Oversight. Quality Assurance. Risk Management. Service
Delivery Innovation. Stakeholder Development & Relations. Programme /
Project Planning & Management. Monitoring and assurance. Research and
Development. Skills development. Human Resource Planning Skills. Training
and Development (HRD) Skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate the submission of the identified training needs from the various
Chief/Directorate’s training needs and the implementation of the Workplace
Skills plan (WSP) for the Compensation Fund. Implement training
interventions, PDPs, Bursaries, and learning and skills development in the
Compensation Fund. Coordinate the Developmental Programme of the
Compensation Fund. Coordinate and implement both Compulsory Induction
26
Programme (CIP) and Departmental Orientation as per approved plan in the
Compensation Fund. Manage the resources of the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms VH Masemola at 082 520 3935
APPLICATIONS : Direct Your Applications to Email: Jobs-CF23@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
POST 27/27 : STATUTORY SERVICES OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/7/10
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office-KwaZulu-Natal
REQUIREMENTS : BPROC/ BCOM Law/ LLB. One (1) year experience in the legal/compliance
environment. A valid Driver’s licence. Knowledge: Public service transformation
and management issues, Public Service Act and Regulations, Treasury
Regulations, Departmental policies and procedures, corporate governance,
Skills Development Act, COIDA, UIA, BCEA, SDLA, LRA, UI Contribution Act,
Employment Equity Act, Employment Services Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning
and organising, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem Solving,
Interviewing, Presentation, Innovative, Analytical, Written and Verbal
Communication.
DUTIES : To plan and independently administer work referred to Statutory Services for
enforcement of non- compliance under employment law. Assist the ASD
Statutory Services in the enforcement processed for IES. Assist in the strategy
for Statutory Services. Assist in facilitating the implementation of capacity
development programmes for the inspectors in the Province. Compile stats for
the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mthethwa Tel No: (031) 366 2203
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: P.O Box 940, Durban, 4000 or hand
deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For online applications, email
to: Jobs-KZN31@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Indian Males, Indian Females, White Males, White Females and People with
Disabilities are encouraged to apply
POST 27/28 : BCEA INSPECTOR REF NO: HR4/4/7/2
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Dundee Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant qualification in Labour Relations / BCOM Law / LLB.
Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Skills
Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Unemployment Insurance Act. Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act.
Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organising (Own work), Computer
(Spreadsheets, PowerPoint, and word processing), Interpersonal, Problem
Solving, Interviewing, Analytical, Verbal and written communication,
Employment Equity Act.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mthinkhulu Tel No: (034) 299 7000
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Dundee Labour Centre, PO Box 445, Dundee or hand deliver
at 63 Victoria Street, Dundee. For Online Application: Jobs-
KZN4@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Indian Males, Indian Females, White Males, White Females and Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/29 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: IES (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Ladysmith Ref No: HR4/4/7/3 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Richards Bay Ref No: HR4/4/7/11 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Experience: None. Knowledge: All relevant Labour legislations and
regulations, Relevant ILO conventions, Public Service Regulations, Public
Service Act, Knowledge of Departmental policies, procedures and guidelines,
27
Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, Interviewing,
Computer literacy, Communication, Ability to interpret legislation, Problem
solving.
DUTIES : Render services at help desk as the first point of entry within the Registration
services. Resolve all complaints on IES labour legislations received from
clients within the scope and dictates of the IES SOP. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Radebe Tel No: (036) 638 1900 (Ladysmith)
Mr I Ximba Tel No: (035) 780 8708 (Richards Bay)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Ladysmith Labour Centre, P/Bag X9926, Ladysmith, 3370 Or
hand deliver at 35 Keate Street, Ladysmith. For Online Applications: Jobs-
KZN5@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Richards Bay Labour Centre, P/Bag X20033, Empangeni,
3880 Or hand deliver at 11 Lira Rink Road, Richards Bay. For Online
Applications: Jobs-KZN28@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Indian Males, Indian Females, White Males, White Females and Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/30 : PERSONNEL OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/7/4
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office- KwaZulu-Natal
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation / Grade 12 / Senior Certificate Plus Certificate in Human
Resource Management Field. Experience: None Knowledge: Departmental
policies and procedures, HR related systems (PERSAL), Batho Pele
Principles, Employment Equity Act, Public Service Regulations Skills:
Computer literacy, Analytical, Communication, Planning and organising.
DUTIES : Facilitate and provide administrative support for service benefit of employees.
Provide support to the recruitment and selection processes. Capture and
update all personal data on PERSAL system. Attend to clients’ enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TG Gumede Tel No: (031) 366 2355
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Human Resource Management, P O Box 940, Durban, 4000
or hand deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For Online Applications
Email to: Jobs-KZN9@Labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets - Priority will be given to African Male, Indian Male, White Male &
Female.
28
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment, The Director: Integrated Human Resource Management,
Private Bag X4390, Cape Town, 8000 or hand-deliver to 14 Loop Street, Cape
Town or can be emailed to the respective email address quoting the reference
number on the subject email.
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026, 16:00. No late applications will be accepted
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Creditworthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry-level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Following the interview and the technical exercise of all SMS posts, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. Persons appointed will be
subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement and
employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
OTHER POST
POST 27/31 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION GRADE A: (ABALONE) REF NO: FIM20/2026
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Cape Town (Foretrust Building)
29
REQUIREMENTS : A BSc (Hons) degree or equivalent qualification in Fisheries Science, Marine
Science, Marine Biology, Biological Oceanography, Population Ecology,
Quantitative Ecology, Applied Mathematics, Statistics, or a closely related
discipline with a strong quantitative and fisheries science focus; compulsory
registration with the South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions
(SACNASP) as a Professional Natural Scientist (proof must be attached); a
minimum of three (3) years’ post-qualification natural scientific experience in
fisheries science, marine resource assessment, fisheries research or a related
scientific field; demonstrated knowledge and practical experience in population
dynamics, fisheries stock assessment and quantitative modelling techniques;
proven experience in statistical analysis and modelling of biological and
fisheries data; experience in developing, customising and applying scientific
models and analytical tools in support of fisheries management and resource
rebuilding; knowledge of abalone biology, ecology and fishery dynamics,
including recovery and rebuilding strategies for depleted stocks; proven ability
to manage, analyse and interpret large scientific datasets; computer literacy,
including advanced use of statistical and data analysis software and standard
office applications; experience in scientific reporting and the preparation of
management-oriented scientific advice; ability to work independently and as
part of a multidisciplinary scientific team; good communication and stakeholder
engagement skills; willingness to participate in fieldwork, diver-based surveys,
farm and processing-facility sampling, and extended field deployments where
required; and a valid South African driver's licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will join the Benthic Research Group and contribute
to the scientific rebuilding and long-term sustainability of South Africa’s abalone
fishery. The successful candidate will conduct applied scientific research on the
population biology, ecology and fishery dynamics of abalone; undertake
quantitative analyses, statistical modelling and stock assessments; develop
and apply scientific methodologies, models and analytical tools to support
fisheries management and resource recovery; participate in biological
monitoring programmes, including diver-based surveys, field sampling and
sampling at abalone farms and processing facilities; collect, analyse, interpret
and disseminate scientific information; prepare scientific reports, management
advice and peer-reviewed publications; participate in Scientific Working
Groups and provide scientific inputs into fisheries management and policy
development; engage with fisheries managers, industry, research institutions
and other stakeholders; review and synthesise relevant scientific literature;
identify research gaps and contribute to the development of appropriate
scientific interventions; assist with the planning, implementation, monitoring
and evaluation of research projects; and contribute to the supervision,
mentoring and development of technicians, students and junior scientists while
maintaining continuous professional development in fisheries science
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Qayiso Mketsu at 082 782 9674
APPLICATIONS : FIM20-2026@dffe.gov.za
30
ANNEXURE F
GOVERNMENT TECHNICAL ADVISORY CENTRE (GTAC)
The GTAC is an equal-opportunity employer and encourages applications from women and people with
disabilities. Our buildings are accessible for people with disabilities and reasonable accommodation is
provided for persons with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : Only online applications will be accepted. Applications not accompanied by a
comprehensive CV and a fully completed Z83 form will not be considered.
Please register, or if you are already registered, sign in and apply for this
position on the GTAC e Recruitment website
https://erecruitment.gtac.gov.za/erecruitment/
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026 at 12 pm.
NOTE : Only South African Citizens, and Permanent Residents need apply as per PSR
2016. Applications should be accompanied by a duly completed and signed
Z83 form (obtainable from any Public Service department). The post title and
reference number must be clearly indicated on the Z83 form. A recent
comprehensive CV and originally certified copies of qualifications and ID
should be submitted. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents will be required to be submitted to HR on or before the day of the
interview from shortlisted candidates. All short-listed candidates must make
themselves available for a panel interview on the date determined by the
GTAC. All short-listed candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks and the successful candidate will undergo security vetting in order to
confirm employment. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Late applications, and those not meeting the requirements, will not be
considered. If you have not received feedback from the GTAC within 1 month
of the closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
GTAC reserves the right to fill or not fill the advertised posts.
OTHER POST
POST 27/32 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: G11/2026
Term: Permanent
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Degree or related qualification in Financial Management or related field. A
minimum of 5-7 years’ experience in Budget Planning, Financial Reporting, and
in Public Service Financial Management, at least 3-5 years’ experience of
which at supervisory / management (ASD) level. An extensive knowledge of
PFMA and NT Regulations is an added advantage. Competencies required:
Client Service Orientation: Client-service orientation implies helping or serving
others, to meet their needs. It means focusing on discovering those needs,
figuring out how to best meet them as well as putting into practice the Batho
Pele spirit. The term “clients” refers to both internal and external clients.
Concern for Quality and Order: Desire to see things done logically, clearly, and
well. It takes various forms: monitoring and checking work and information,
insisting on the clarity of roles and duties, setting up and maintaining
information systems. Effective Communication: Ability to transmit and receive
information clearly and communicate effectively to others by considering their
points of view in order to respond appropriately. This may involve listening,
interpreting, formulating, and delivering verbal, non-verbal, written, and/or
electronic messages. It includes the ability to convey ideas and information in
a way that brings understanding to the target audience. Holding People
accountable: Acts to ensure others perform in accordance with clear
expectations and goals. Emotional Intelligence: Capacity for recognising their
own feelings and those of others, for motivating themselves and others as a
result of this awareness, and for managing emotions within themselves and in
others. Information Sharing: Both the motivation to expand and use one's
knowledge and the willingness to share this knowledge with others. Integrity/
Honesty: Contributes to maintaining the integrity of the organisation; displays
high standards of ethical conduct and understands the impact of violating these
standards on an organisation, self, and others; is trustworthy. Networking and
31
Influencing: Establishes, maintains, and utilises a relevant network of contacts
in order to keep a pulse on public, political, and internal issues and make
informed decisions. It implies an intention to persuade, convince, influence, or
impress others in order to meet the intended objectives. Results Orientation:
Concern for holding yourself and others accountable for achieving results or
for surpassing a standard of excellence. It includes the process of setting
measurable objectives, implementing change, and then checking back to
determine the effect of your efforts. The standard may be one’s own past
performance (striving for improvement); an objective measure (results
orientation); outperforming others (competitiveness); challenging goals one
has set, or even what anyone has ever done (innovation). Strategic Orientation:
Strategic orientation is about taking a broad-scale, long-term view and
assessing options and implications. It demonstrates an intimate understanding
of the capabilities, nature and potential of the department. It involves taking
calculated risks based on awareness of social, economic, market, and political
issues, trends, processes, and outcomes as they impact the strategic direction
of the department and its linkages with the direction of government. Systems
Thinking: Orientation to think in system-wide terms with regard to functions or
divisions within the organisation. This includes spotting opportunities to
connect the initiatives underway in other areas or proactively sharing
information or resources that can be seen to have relevance and impact on
others. Team Participation: Works co-operatively with others, working together
as opposed to working separately or competitively. Valuing Diversity: Ability to
understand and respect the practices, customs, values, and norms of other
individuals, groups and cultures. It goes beyond what is required by
governmental employment equity regulations to include the ability to respect
and value different points of view and to be open to others of different
backgrounds or perspectives. It includes seeing others’ differences as a
positive part of the work environment. It also means being able to work well
with a wide variety of people representing different backgrounds, cultures and
socio-economic levels. Vision and Purpose: Modelling and promoting high
personal and professional standards that support the organisation’s vision,
mandate, and values. Sharing goals, objectives, and ideas to encourage others
to commit to and be enthusiastic about realising the vision.
DUTIES : To ensure that the GTAC budgets are managed in line with relevant legislation,
regulations, frameworks, and departmental policies and procedures.
Management Accounting Compliance: Monitor legislative and regulatory
prescripts relating to public finance management and accounting including the
PFMA, GAAP, and GRAP, and make recommendations for amendment to
GTAC financial policies and procedures where relevant. Monitor compliance to
GTAC financial policies and procedures, and report and ensure that non-
compliance issues are addressed. Monitor and address the performance and
integrity of the financial management system (PASTEL). Manage the
management accounting and reporting schedules, ensuring compliance with
NT reporting requirements. Provide advice and guidance to budget managers
on the use of forecasting methods and tools. Participate in the internal and
external audit reviews. Budget Preparation Management: Coordinate the
preparation of financial information required for the strategic and annual
performance planning process. Analyse and quality assure the financial
information requirements for the evaluation and development of business and
project plans. Check and verify the supporting information for various financial
planning processes. Develop templates for the collection of budget information
from budget managers. Analyse, interpret, and communicate the treasury
guidelines for the estimates of national expenditure (ENE). Review and analyse
the annual budgets and ensure alignment with the Operating plans. Budget
Planning and Implementation Management: Coordinate the preparation and
consultation for the MTEF budget process. Align budget statements with the
annual performance plan and the strategic plan. Analyse and interpret the
requirements for the annual cash flow projections and adjusted as prescribed
by Treasury and recommend corrective action where required. Budget
Adjustments Management: Undertake the planning and supervise the
preparation and consultation process in the implementation of the adjustments
estimates process. Assess where shifting of funds/ virements is required and
possible by reviewing expenditure against budget and making
recommendations for adjustments. Supervise the recording of adjustments and
provide feedback to the relevant components. Monitor that all shifts/virements
are included in the adjusted budget. Budget rollovers/retain of surpluses
32
management. Ensure that prescripts for ‘funds committed but not spent’ and
compliance requirements for budget rollover/retain surplus requests are
disseminated to programme managers and in compliance with the NT
guidelines. Ensure that all roll-over/ retain surplus requests are analysed,
considered, and proposal recommendations developed and submitted to the
CFO for a recommendation. Ensure that the approved rollovers are
incorporated in the budget adjustments. Monitor expenditure trends, assess
additional funding requirements from the adjustment estimates process, and
develop proposals on the virement or shifting of funds. Budget Reporting
Management: Evaluate information on monthly reports produced (variance
between actual versus budgeted expenditure) and recommend appropriate
actions where necessary. Monitor that all shifts/virements are included in the
In-Year Monitoring Report. Evaluate and monitor the costing model in place.
Compile information for the interim and annual performance reports. Provide
information for the preparation of the annual financial statements.
ENQUIRIES : Kaizer Malakoane Tel No: (012) 315 5442 or Email:
Kaizer.malakoane@gtac.gov.za
33
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Ekurhuleni East TVET College)
APPLICATIONS : Received after the closing date will not be considered. Please forward your
application, quoting the reference number to: The Assistant Director: Human
Resource Management & Development. Ekurhuleni East TVET College, Sam
Ngema Road, Kwa - Thema or posted to Private Bag X52, Springs, 1560.
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026 at 16H00.
NOTE` : Applications must be submitted on Z83 form obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/Documents and must be
Accompanied by a recently updated comprehensive CV (With Three
Contactable References). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a detailed
Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A user guide and ‘how to’ videos will assist
in how to complete for the form and digital signature. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents/copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents to support the application on or
before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in term s of
race, gender, and disability will receive preference. The candidate(s) will be
required to sign an annual performance agreement, disclose his/her financial
interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship
verification, qualification/study verification, and previous employment
verification). Applications received after the closing date will not be considered.
“DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and practising affirmative
action. The appointment will be done in line with the approved Employment
Equity Plan. Persons with disability are encouraged to apply. It is our intention
to promote representativity in terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the
organisation.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/33 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: EXAMS AND ASSESSMENTS REF
NO: EEC-SEAP-01-01/2026
Ekurhuleni East TVET College
Permanent
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : TVET Colleges
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 / Matric / Level 4 Certificate. An appropriate (3) year National
Diploma or Degree in Education / Public Administration/Business
Management/Office Management. 3-5 years in teaching and learning
environment. Computer Literacy. A valid Driver’s Licence. Knowledge of White
Paper on PSET Act. Knowledge of the Public TVET sector and its regulatory
and legislative framework. Knowledge and understanding of the Higher
Education sector. Knowledge and understanding of ITS. Knowledge of practice
notes, national, provincial policy frameworks relevant to Education, Training
and Development. Knowledge of Skills Development Act, Public Service
Regulations and Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act. Good
Administration. Planning and organizing. Financial management. Report
writing. Good Communication. Problem solving. Computer literacy. Analytical.
Client oriented. Project management. Team leadership. People management.
Client service focus. Integrity. Committed. Proactive. Loyal. Ethics.
Duties : Ensure the provision of examination services. Administer exam venues (i.e.
seating plan, direction to exam venue, instruction to student and other related
duties as per exam manual). Manage concessions for students with disabilities
prior examination sitting. Ensure the monitoring of examination processes and
procedures. Administer College exam centers for trimester or semester or year
examination cycle. Ensure if invigilator and student comply with examination
policy and regulations. Ensure the safekeeping and distribution of question
papers. Develop the internal Assessment (ICASS/ISAT) Monitoring and
Verification tool. Develop College Examination Policy and Terms of References
34
(TOR) for Examination related committee. Ensure the submission of
examination data to DHET. Coordinate meetings for before and after exams to
discuss irregularity experience and develop strategies. Conduct training of
Invigilators, Markers and Data Capturers. Ensure the preparation of logistical
arrangements for training (materials, equipment, transport, refreshment and
venue). Develop internal marking plan and administer internal marking centers.
Administer Invigilator agreements, contracts and signing thereof. Coordinate
appointment of Chief Invigilators and Examination Officers. Administer and
conduct training for Invigilators, Markers and Data Capturers on exam
processes and procedures. Establish the function of Irregularity Committee.
Coordinate activities for the development of learning material. Administer the
establishment of both the Examination and Irregularity Committee for both
Colleges and Campuses. Provide secretariat service to the Committee and
ensure the compilation of reports. Ensure the management and control of
issuing of the certificates. Administer the issuing of certificate application form
and quality assurance on submitted data. Administer the processing and
submission of all Diploma applications, keep record and handle enquiries.
Ensure the tracking of outstanding certificate applications (Statement of
results, Diploma, NCV Certificates). Ensure the distribution of certificates to the
students. Ensure proper administration of the examination unit. Administer the
communication of exam time tables to the students. Administer the distribution
of examination results, year mark etc to the Campus Managers. Report the
clashing of exams dates. Manage all human, financial and other resources in
the unit. Render management service to the staff. Manage the development
and performance of the staff. Manage the performance agreement of the staff.
Adhere to Department of Higher Education & Training and College policies and
procedures. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LK Boikhutso Tel No: (011) 730 6600 / Mr. T Matsaba Tel No: (011) 730
6600
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted to recruitment@eec.edu.za OR hand delivered at
Ekurhuleni East TVET College: Central Office, Sam Ngema Road, Kwa –
Thema.
POST 27/34 : SENIOR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR
OFFICER REF NO: EEC-SMIP-02-01/2026
Ekurhuleni East TVET College
Branch: Technical And Vocational Education and Training
Permanent
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : TVET Colleges
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 / Matric / Level 4 Certificate. An appropriate National Diploma or
Bachelor's Degree in Information Systems, Management Information Systems,
Information Technology, Computer Science, Data Science, or any other related
qualification. A minimum of three (3) years' relevant experience in Management
Information Systems, database administration, information systems support,
institutional reporting, or data analytics. Proven experience working with the
Integrated Tertiary Software (ITS) system (TVET COLLEGE BMS SYSTEMS)
is a prerequisite. Knowledge of DHET policies, TVETMIS reporting
requirements, and higher education information systems. Knowledge of SQL,
relational databases, and reporting tools is required. Proficiency in Microsoft
Office Suite, particularly Microsoft Excel, is essential. Knowledge of Business
Intelligence and data visualisation tools such as Microsoft Power BI, SQL
Server Reporting Services (SSRS) or similar reporting platforms and A valid
Driver’s Licence. Knowledge of Management Information Systems principles,
database administration and information management. Knowledge of the
Integrated Tertiary Software (ITS) system, relational databases, database
querying, business intelligence tools and reporting applications. Understanding
of data governance, data quality management, information security and
institutional reporting frameworks within the TVET sector. Knowledge of DHET
reporting requirements, TVETMIS reporting processes and the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Good understanding of systems analysis,
information management. Excellent analytical, problem-solving and report-
writing skills with the ability to interpret complex institutional data and present
35
meaningful management information. Ability to develop dashboards, statistical
reports and performance indicators to support evidence-based decision-
making. Good communication, presentation, interpersonal and stakeholder
management skills. Ability to work independently, manage multiple priorities
and maintain a high level of accuracy, confidentiality and attention to detail.
Adhere to Department of Higher Education & Training and College policies and
procedures.
DUTIES : Provide support in the administration, maintenance and optimisation of the
College's Management Information Systems (MIS) and the Integrated Tertiary
Software (ITS) to ensure the integrity, availability and security of institutional
information. Maintain and administer institutional databases, perform data
validation, cleansing and reconciliation, monitor system performance,
implement system updates, maintain user access controls, perform routine
backups and support the implementation of information security and data
governance standards. Provide first-line support to ITS users, resolve system-
related queries, develop and maintain system documentation, facilitate user
training, and assist in the implementation of system enhancements and
continuous improvement initiatives in support of institutional objectives.
Collect, extract, analyse, interpret and report on institutional data to support
planning, monitoring and evidence-based decision-making. Develop and
generate management reports, dashboards, statistical reports and key
performance indicators for College Management, Council, the Department of
Higher Education and Training (DHET) and other stakeholders. Support the
coordination and submission of statutory reports, monitor data quality and
compliance with DHET reporting requirements, identify trends and provide
analytical insights to improve institutional performance, ensure compliance
with College policies, the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) and
other applicable legislation, and perform any other duties delegated by the
Assistant Director: Management Information Systems. ITS database. Comply
with DHET and College policies and procedures. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LK Boikhutso Tel No: (011) 730 6600 / Mr. T Matsaba Tel No: (011) 730
6600
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted to recruitment@eec.edu.za OR hand delivered at
Ekurhuleni East TVET College: Central Office, Sam Ngema Road, Kwa –
Thema.
POST 27/35 : SENIOR RISK MANAGEMENT OFFICER REF NO: EEC-RISP-03-01/2026
Ekurhuleni East TVET College
Branch: Technical And Vocational Education and Training
Permanent
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : TVET Colleges
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 / Matric / Level 4 Certificate. An appropriate National
Diploma/Degree in Internal Auditing / Risk Management or equivalent
qualification. Three (3) years’ experience in Risk Management or relevant field.
Computer literacy. A valid Driver’s Licence. Knowledge of relevant legislation,
policies and procedures relating to Risk Management. Good verbal and written
communication. Interpersonal skills and problem-solving skills. Research and
report writing and presentation skills. Candidate must be trustworthy, proactive,
and reliable and committed to service delivery. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Develop, review and implement in consultation with management, risk
management policy, framework, methodology and strategy. Implement risk
management plan i.e. risk identification, risk appetite and tolerance and risk
classification. Facilitate and compile strategic, operational and process level
risk register. Facilitate risk related trainings, workshops and awareness
campaigns to management and employees. Facilitate and monitor application
and procedures associated with risk management functions and activities.
Liaise with Internal Audit concerning fraud indicators and implementation of
fraud prevention strategies. Conduct follow ups on reported fraud and
corruption within the College. Ensure Compliance with risk management
related framework and other applicable legislation. Compile all risk
management related reports. Adhere to Department of Higher Education &
36
Training (DHET) and College policies and procedures. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LK Boikhutso Tel No: (011) 730 6600 / Mr. T Matsaba Tel No: (011) 730
6600
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted to recruitment@eec.edu.za OR hand delivered at
Ekurhuleni East TVET College: Central Office, Sam Ngema Road, Kwa –
Thema.
POST 27/36 : IT TECHNICIANS REF NO: EEC-ITP-04-02/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Ekurhuleni East TVET College
Branch: Technical And Vocational Education and Training
Permanent
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : TVET Colleges
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 / Matric / Level 4 Certificate. An appropriate National Diploma /
Degree in Information Technology (IT), Information Systems, Network
Engineering, Cyber Security, Cloud Computing, or equivalent qualification.
Minimum of 2 – 3 years' experience in an ICT environment supporting
enterprise infrastructure. (HCIP) – Routing & Switching, Security, Cloud
Computing, or related specialisation. A valid Driver’s Licence. Knowledge of
ICT infrastructure, network administration, cloud computing, cybersecurity, and
server management. Knowledge of Microsoft Windows Server, Active
Directory, DNS, DHCP, Group Policy, Microsoft 365, Azure, and virtualisation
technologies. Understanding of cloud-based infrastructure and hybrid
environments. Knowledge of backup, disaster recovery, and business
continuity practices. Understanding of network security technologies including
firewalls, endpoint protection, email security, and security monitoring tools.
Ability to perform vulnerability assessments and implement security controls.
Knowledge of system integration, user provisioning, identity management, and
access control. Understanding of ICT governance frameworks and service
management principles. Strong troubleshooting and analytical skills. Ability to
interpret ICT challenges and provide effective solutions. Excellent customer
service and stakeholder engagement skills. Ability to work under pressure and
manage multiple priorities. Strong communication, documentation, and report-
writing skills. Project coordination and time management skills.
DUTIES : Provide first and second-line ICT support services to College users and
maintain the effective operation of the ICT Service Desk. Install, configure,
maintain and troubleshoot desktops, laptops, printers, telephones, software
applications, and peripheral devices. Administer user accounts, email services,
Active Directory, Microsoft 365 services, and access management processes.
Support and maintain network infrastructure including switches, routers,
wireless networks, structured cabling, internet connectivity, and voice
communication systems. Assist with the administration, monitoring,
maintenance, and upgrading of server infrastructure, cloud services,
virtualisation platforms, and enterprise applications. Implement and support
cybersecurity controls, endpoint protection solutions, patch management,
vulnerability remediation, information security measures, and compliance with
ICT security standards. Monitor ICT infrastructure to ensure the availability,
integrity, and confidentiality of College information systems and services.
Perform backup and recovery procedures, disaster recovery activities,
business continuity support, data migration, and secure offsite storage of
institutional information. Assist with systems integration initiatives, cloud
migration projects, digital transformation programmes, and the implementation
of new ICT technologies and services. Maintain ICT asset registers, technical
documentation, standard operating procedures, and system configurations.
Conduct troubleshooting, diagnosis, testing, installation, configuration, and
upgrade activities on ICT infrastructure and systems. Provide telephonic,
remote, and on-site support to users across all College sites. Gather and
analyse user requirements, identify ICT-related challenges, recommend
solutions, and participate in ICT projects and innovation initiatives. Ensure
compliance with Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET)
regulations, College policies, ICT governance frameworks, and industry best
practices while providing efficient, reliable, and customer-focused ICT services.
37
Adhere to Department of Higher Education & Training (DHET) and College
policies and procedures. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LK Boikhutso Tel No: (011) 730 6600 / Mr. T Matsaba Tel No: (011) 730
6600
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted to recruitment@eec.edu.za OR hand delivered at
Ekurhuleni East TVET College: Central Office, Sam Ngema Road, Kwa –
Thema.
POST 27/37 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: PAYROLL REF NO: EEC-PAYP-05-
01/2026
Ekurhuleni East TVET College
Branch: Technical And Vocational Education and Training
Permanent
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : TVET Colleges
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 / Matric / Level 4 Certificate. An appropriate National Diploma or
Degree in Accounting / Financial Management / Human Resource
Management or equivalent qualification. 3-5 years’ experience in the financial
management environment. A valid Driver’s Licence. Knowledge of financial
functions, practices, as well as the ability to capture data, operate a computer
and collate financial statistics. Knowledge of financial accounting. procedure,
methods and principles established for the processing of specific salary/
financial transactions. Knowledge of the Public Service financial legislations,
procedures and Treasury Regulations (PFMA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial
Manual). Knowledge of financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, MIS) etc.
Computer skills. Planning and organising skills. Good verbal and written
communication. Basic numeracy skills. Ability to perform routine tasks. Ability
to operate office equipment. Flexibility. Interpersonal Relations. Accuracy.
Client service focus. Integrity. Committed. Proactive and loyal.
DUTIES : Ensure the Implementation of Budget Control and expenditure. Facilitate and
coordinate the annual budgeting process. Perform monthly budgetary and
Expenditure analysis. Effect budget adjustments. Prepare budget. administer
College adjustment Estimates. Compile Medium Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) projections. monitor expenditure trends and reconciliation against
budget and cash flow projections. monitor expenditure allocation and
amendment of erroneousness allocations. Compile financial reports. Compile
monthly budget reports. Safeguard all financial documents of the College.
Prepare the unit for the annual financial audit and respond to enquiries.
Reconcile salary payments with salary ledger. Administer payroll control and
salary administration. Provide inputs and implement salary administration and
payroll control policies. Reconcile salary payments against the salary ledgers
for all cost centres on the system. Manage the written appointment of
paymaster. Maintain and update pay points and their associated staff. Print,
distribute and collect payrolls. Sign a monthly salary administration and payroll
control compliance certificate. Safeguard and preserve payrolls. Load third
party payment on bank system (SARS, UIF, COIDA and SDL). Supervise
human resources/staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work. Personnel
development. Assess staff development. Apply discipline. Report on state of
expenditure. Adhere to Department of Higher Education & Training (DHET) and
College policies and procedures. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LK Boikhutso Tel No: (011) 730 6600 / Mr. T Matsaba Tel No: (011) 730
6600
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted to recruitment@eec.edu.za OR hand delivered at
Ekurhuleni East TVET College: Central Office, Sam Ngema Road, Kwa –
Thema.
38
POST 27/38 : CAMPUS ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: EEC-CAP-06-01/2026
Ekurhuleni East TVET College
Branch: Technical And Vocational Education and Training
Permanent
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : TVET Colleges
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 / Matric / Level 4 Certificate. An appropriate National Diploma /
Degree in Office Management and Technology / Public Management or
equivalent qualification. 1-2 years relevant experience in Administration
environment. A valid Driver’s Licence. Knowledge of office administration.
Knowledge of Public Service legislations and policies. Knowledge of PSET.
Knowledge and understanding of the TVET/ CET Administration.
Understanding of the Higher Education sector. Understanding of corporate
governance. Understanding Cost centre budgetary, expenditure and cash flow
management. Employment Equity Act, Public Service Regulations and Public
Service Act, Labour Relations Act and any other related legislation. Planning
and organising. Financial management. Report writing. Communication and
interpersonal. Problem solving. Computer literacy skill. Analytical skill. Client-
oriented. Project management. Team leadership. Planning and organising.
People management. Client service focus. Integrity. Committed. Proactive and
Loyal.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services. Draw up a campus enrolment plan for
both NCV and report 191. Gather departmental information and compile a
report for A-TEAM and Campus Management. Prepare reports, presentations,
and other correspondence. Arrange meetings, conferences, workshops and
other gatherings as required. Provide other secretarial support services to
campus management. Administer and coordinate human resource services:
Coordinate Leave forms and submit to central office. Coordinate PMDS
documents and submit to central office. Coordinate all relevant documentation
pertaining to disciplinary cases and grievances. Follow up and resolve all
human resource administration queries and issues emanating from campus
staff. Maintain human resource records administration. Monitor the attendance
register for staff. Coordinate the compilation of duty registers and payment for
part-time lectures. Provide procurement services: Recommend purchase
requisitions to Campus Manager. Draft procurement memo. Complete
requisition form. Receive goods and services. Coordinate and submit invoices
to central office for processing. Verify the correctness of goods and services
supplied against the appropriate documentation. Follow-up on campus
requisitions made. Support the implementation college staff wellness
programme at campus level. Maintain a proper filing system: Maintain files for
all campus staff. Filing of all relevant documentation according to QMS
requirements and the National Achieve Act. Keep record of postage received
from central office and ensure that the distribution is done accordingly and
register is kept by the relevant official. Administer student registration and
examination process: Assist in the registration of students. Store student
portfolios of evidence and student records. Scan documents of students.
Capture and reconcile information for students. Ensure data exceptions and
corrections. Process the details of applications for programmes and credits.
Coordinate the student registration process. Coordinate the examination
process. Adhere to Department of Higher Education & Training (DHET) and
College policies and procedures. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. LK Boikhutso Tel No: (011) 730 6600 / Mr. T Matsaba Tel No: (011) 730
6600
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted to recruitment@eec.edu.za OR hand delivered at
Ekurhuleni East TVET College: Central Office, Sam Ngema Road, Kwa –
Thema.
39
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) seeks to hire patriotic, professional, passionate and talented
individuals to form part of a new leadership team, equipped with the right skills to facilitate the
transformation of Home Affairs into a digital-first, world-class organisation. If you are committed to
delivering on the Medium-Term Development Plan’s priorities through digital transformation, ascribe to
the Department’s shared value set, have what it takes to deliver on the needs of DHA Clients with the
highest levels of dignity, integrity and innovation, and your credentials meet the requirements of any of
the following positions, kindly respond before the closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent
to the correct address specified at the bottom of the posts, on or before the
closing date, accompanied by a fully completed Application for Employment
Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number and job title, and a
comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy), job title, duties
performed and exit reason for each employment period to be considered, as
well as the details of at least two contactable employment references (as recent
as possible), regardless of online or manual submission. Where a valid Driver's
License and a Professional Driving Permit (PDP) is a requirement, this must
be indicated on the CV. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Shortlisted candidates will also be required to submit a copy of their ID
document, a valid driver’s license (if specified as a job requirement), relevant
educational qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic Transcripts of
completed qualifications, and Acting letters as directed. Furthermore,
applicants who possess (a) foreign qualification(s), are required to submit the
evaluated results of such qualifications, as received from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA); for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity, will be subjected to an interview, various relevant
tests and assessments, and employment suitability checks (credit, criminal,
citizenship, qualifications, and employment references including verification of
exit reasons, and conducting business with State). Once appointed, serving of
a prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a security clearance
appropriate to the post, will be required. Correspondence between the
Department and candidates will be limited to shortlisted candidates, only. The
DHA is a merit-based, equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. In line
with its commitment to promoting representivity, in the filling of entry-level
positions preference may be given to locally based candidates on grounds of
affordability as well as to (unemployed) youth and the DHA’s interns and
learners who have successfully completed their respective skills development
programmes. In the filling of all posts, preference may be afforded to persons
with disabilities, and in respect of SMS-level posts, to women. Persons falling
in these categories and who meet the post requirements are preferred. The
DHA complies with the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4
of 2013). Applicants’ personal information will be used for recruitment
purposes, retained where required for audit, and safeguarded against
unauthorised disclosure, except where legally required. Submission of an
application constitutes consent to such processing.
40
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/39 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PARLIAMENTARY AND CABINET SUPPORT REF
NO: HRMC 55/26/1
(This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply).
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane and Cape Town (Sessional)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Political Sciences, Public Management and
Administration or related field at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA. 3 years’
experience at Junior Management / Assistant Director is required.
Understanding of various Portfolio and cabinet Committees. Knowledge of
foreign policies. Understanding of Intergovernmental Relations framework.
Knowledge of NEPAD, SADC and sanctions and mechanism. knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury regulations. Knowledge
of the South African Constitution. Understanding of departmental legislation as
well as Human Resources legislation and prescripts. A valid drivers’ license.
Regular travel between Pretoria and Cape Town, particularly during
Parliamentary sitting. Willingness to travel frequently and work outside normal
office hours when operationally required. Ability to communicate with all levels
of management. Required skills and competencies: People Management and
Empowerment. Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer
Focus. Financial Management. Communication. Decision Making. Planning
and Organising. Exceptional organisational and coordination skills. Business
report writing. Strong written communication and editing skills. Computer
literacy (advanced Microsoft Office Suite). Strong administrative and document
management skills. Strong analytical skills. Problem-solving and conflict
management. Ability to manage multiple priorities and consistently meet tight
deadlines. Strong sense of accountability and ownership. Ability to work
independently with minimal supervision. Attention to detail. Influencing and
networking. Presentation skills. Facilitation skills. Negotiation skills.
Interpersonal relations. Professionalism, discretion and integrity. Patriotic,
Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Provide support services to Parliamentary matters, portfolio-
selected committees and Cabinet matters. Coordinate multiple concurrent
Parliamentary and Cabinet workstreams. Track deadlines across the
Department and follow up with branches to ensure timely submissions.
Coordinate departmental interaction with Parliamentary Committees in
accordance with the Parliamentary programme. Render administrative and
technical support to departmental delegations attending Parliamentary
briefings and committee meetings. Manage the drafting, quality assurance and
submission of departmental responses to Parliamentary questions posed to
the Minister of Home Affairs. Facilitate and coordinate departmental responses
to Parliamentary and Cabinet enquiries. Coordinate inputs from relevant
branches and participate in the drafting and finalisation of Cabinet memoranda
for Cabinet consideration. Ensure departmental compliance with all
Parliamentary and Cabinet processes, policies and prescribed timeframes.
Monitor the implementation of decisions taken by Cabinet, Cabinet Committees
and Parliamentary Committees that are relevant to the Department. Maintain
accurate tracking systems and records of Parliamentary questions, committee
resolutions, Cabinet memoranda and Cabinet Committee minutes. Escalate
risks or delays that may impact compliance with Parliamentary or Cabinet
deadlines. Drive the implementation of the Batho Pele principles within the unit
in all interactions with internal and external stakeholders. Develop and
implementation of policy and procedure, directive acts and regulations.
Develop and review communications policies and code of practice for the
directorate. Implement governance processes, frameworks and procedures.
Ensure compliance with all audit requirements, quality and risk management
frameworks, standards and procedures. Monitor and ensure compliance with
legislation, regulations and DHA policies and procedures. Plan the production
of annual reports in line with corporate strategy. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr B Mathatho Tel No: (012) 406 4250
41
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
DGrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 27/40 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET CONTROL REF NO: HRMC 55/26/2
Sub- Directorate: Asset Control
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Accounting, Financial Accounting, Financial
Management, Cost and Management Accounting, Auditing, at NQF 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ Supervisory experience in an Asset
Management environment is required. Knowledge of the Public Service
Regulations Act. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act.
Knowledge of the South African Constitution. Understanding of departmental
legislation as well as Human Resources legislation and prescripts. Knowledge
of the National Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of modified cash system
(MCS). Knowledge of BAS, LOGIS and BAUD systems. Knowledge of the
Supply Chain Management practices. Knowledge of Asset Management
Framework. Knowledge of the Standard Chart of Accounts (SCoA). Required
skills and competencies: Capability and leadership. Service delivery
innovation. Stakeholder relations and customer focus. People management
and empowerment. Programme and project management. Communication.
Decision making. Financial Risk Management. Asset Control Management.
Expenditure Management and Administration. Budget administration.
Business Report Writing. Initiating action. Asset verification. Problem solving
and analysis. Presentation Skills. Interpersonal Skills. Communication Skills.
Planning and Organising Skills. Computer literacy Skills. Decision Making
Skills. Negotiation Skills. Reconciliation Skills. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Facilitate and effective asset management in the Department.
Facilitate and develop the asset and acquisition plans and strategies. Facilitate
and maintain the asset register integrity. Assist with the monthly reconciliation
of BAS, update the current year addition register and ensure completeness and
accuracy on the LOGIS, BAS and FA System. Facilitate and implement
physical verification of assets in the department. Facilitate and maintain the
movement of assets, update the movement, condition, location of moveable
assets in the register. Facilitate the investigation of instances of not verified
assets lost, stolen or damaged assets and report them to the Loss Control
Committee for recovery. Facilitate and maintain recording of write-offs,
disposals and asset losses. Maintain disposals of assets including recording of
income and related administration. Maintain and update moveable lease
register. Facilitate the lease commitment and disclosure note. Facilitate and
establish norms, standards and processes for assets in the Department. Assist
to generate Return on Investment and other prescribed and delegated reports
for National Treasury and Business Owners. Facilitate and maintain effective
operations within the fixed asset management unit. Ensure the implementation
of effective risk and compliance management. Implementation of policies,
procedures, directives, acts and regulations. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Mnisi Tel No: (012) 406 4238
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
financerecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 27/41 : SENIOR FINGERPRINT EXPERT: INVESTIGATION AND RECORDS REF
NO: HRMC 55/26/3
Directorate: Fingerprint Verification
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08), (a basic salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane, (BVR)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Management, Administration,
Operations Management at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA. 2 years’
experience at a supervisor level and experience in Civic Services / Customer
Service and basic Investigation and Records environment is required. Basic
42
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of the Departmental
Legislation and Prescripts (Civic Services). Knowledge and understanding of
the verification process. Basic knowledge of the Human Resource Regulatory
Framework. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Service delivery. Client and customer orientation. Honesty and
integrity. Client and customer relations. Conflict Resolution. Problem solving
and analysis. Report Writing. Colour vision and hearing. Basic Ability to
understand and follow camera scripts. Physical strength to carry heavy
equipment and stamina. Ability to think and act quickly. Computer literacy.
Basic image editing skills. Communication skills. Planning and organising
skills. Analytical skills. Problem solving skills. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Supervise and implement the processing of investigations and
records of clients in the unit. Ensure and implement the investigation and
records by following the correct processes and procedures in the unit. Ensure
and prepare all the files received from front office. Ensure the investigation and
records of the application according to requirements. Ensure the capturing of
quality with regard to the application. Resolve technical or practical issues from
employees and escalate complex matters to the Supervisor. Monitor the
performance of the SLA between the Front Office and the unit and take
corrective action where required. Implement effective operational control
measures to prevent corruption and other non-financial losses. Liaise with
Government Printing Works and other stakeholders to ensure quality and
timeous delivery of services. Facilitate the timely and compliant filing and/or
disposal of undelivered or incomplete Identity Documents. Ensure the ongoing
in and out management of records in the unit. Supervise and implement
investigation and records processes and procedures. Maintain good
relationships with clients and stakeholders. Implement effective risk and
compliance in line with the relevant practices. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Mohlaka Tel No: (012) 406 4246
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za. Head Office, Hallmark Building: Physical
address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street, Pretoria, 0001
43
ANNEXURE I
JUDICIAL INSPECTORATE FOR CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
The Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling
of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108
of 1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55
of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies of JICS will be taken into consideration. Women and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the EE Target. JICS
reserves the rights to fill these positions.
APPLICATIONS : Applications to be submitted through following link:
https://forms.gle/w4r2xEnc74TyJvku7 or hand delivered to Block C3, Eco
Origins Office Park, Witch-hazel Street, Centurion, 0046.
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resources
CLOSING DATE : 21 August 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 20:00 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment and saved with
surname and initials. JPEG (picture/snapshot) applications will not be
accepted. Failure to do so will result in your application being disqualified.
Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s)
advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed
below. Failure to fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All applications
must reach the Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS) on/or
before the closing date and time. JICS cannot be held responsible for server
delays. Applications submitted in any other way other than the published link
or hand delivery will be treated as invalid. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to indicate “refer to CV” or “see
attached”. However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part “F” must be answered and the declaration signed. Only
an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience, if any) and
a completed and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other
related documents on or before the day of the interview following the
communication from Human Resources and such qualification(s) and other
related document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-
RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate’s
suitability based on the posts’ technical and generic requirements. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used for the sole purpose of this application and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. Due to
the large number of responses anticipated, correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The JICS reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate
will be required to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement. All costs associated with an application will be borne by the
applicant. The appointment will be made according to the Public Service Act of
1994. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
44
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POST
POST 27/42 : STATE ACCOUTANT REF NO: JI 35/2026
Office of the Chief Financial Officer
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 / Senior certificate and
National Diploma (NQF 6) in Accounting / Financial Management or relevant
qualification within the related field. Minimum of 1 – 3 years’ experience in
Financial Environment Management or related field. Knowledge of financial
management, accounting, and business practices. Knowledge of
BAS/LOGIS/PERSAL. Computer literate (Ms Word, Excel and Outlook). Ability
to communicate verbally and in writing. Ability to work independently and as
part of a team. Ability to multi-task and general administration capabilities.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for facilitating processing of
creditor payments within 30 days. Check for accuracy of invoice and
authenticity of supporting documents. Prepare and submit paid batches for
filing. Respond to queries from Service Providers. Prepare month creditor’s
accounts. Follow up on creditor queries arising from creditors reconciliation.
Process payment of salary related transactions. Prepare and submit monthly
expenditure reports. Maintain payment register to track all forms of payments.
Prepare of the In year monitoring report. Preparation of the expenditure report
documentation as per responsibility codes of the programmes and expenditure
patterns monitoring. Identify misallocations of funds. Preparation of Budget
process(MTEF/AENE/ENE). Cashflow Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T Sibanyoni/Ms. R Thompson Tel No: (021) 421 1012
45
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful completion of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three
(3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. NB: Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by
applicants will be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a
criminal case shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your application
before the closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do not
submit duplicate applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate
applications for each post. Applications submitted via email will be
acknowledged via an automated response. Applications received manually will
not be acknowledged due to high volumes of applications received. If you have
not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/43 : DEPUTY SURVEYOR-GENERAL REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/185
Directorate: Examination Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
46
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) as recognised by
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), specifically a four-year B or BSc
Degree in Geomatics / Land Surveying or related equivalent qualifications and
a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to
appointment. Registered as a Professional Land Surveyor with the South
African Geomatics Council. Registered as a Sectional Titles Practitioner in
terms of Section 5(2) of the Sectional Titles Act, 1986. Minimum of 5 years of
experience at middle/senior managerial level in a land surveying environment.
Appropriate post registration experience in cadastral surveying. A valid driver’s
licence. Job related knowledge: Cadastral Survey knowledge. Technical
System knowledge. Cadastral Spatial Information knowledge. Knowledge of
Land Information Systems, Land Administration Systems and Geographical
Information Management. Knowledge of advances in technology useful to the
Cadastral Survey System. Performance Management and Monitoring.
Government systems and structures. Government decision making processes.
Programme setting process. Understanding of the management information
and formal reporting system. Dealing with misconduct. Internal control and risk
management. Project management principles and tools. The political
landscape of South Africa. Job related skills: Project management. Team
management. Interpersonal relations. Budget forecasting. Computer literacy.
Resource planning. Problem solving and decision-making. Time management.
Business ability. Communication (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Manage the provisioning of registry services. Oversee the receipt and dispatch
of cadastral documents submitted for examination and approval. Ensure that
the necessary fees of office have been paid prior to the acceptance of cadastral
documents into the system. Oversee the provision of registry enquiry services.
Oversee the maintenance of the cadastral correspondence filing system.
Oversee the rendering of registry delivery and collection services. Manage the
rendering of first level examination services. Oversee the allocation of land
parcel numbers. Ensure technical compliance of all cadastral documents
prepared and submitted by Professional Land Surveyors. Ensure proper
application of all relevant land administration legislation, policies and
procedures. Communicate all relevant new management decisions, policies
and information to staff. Manage the rendering of second level examination
services. Oversee the examination and approval/rejection of all cadastral
documents prepared and submitted by Professional Land Surveyors. Report
on directorate progress as required. Ensure proper application of all relevant
land administration legislation, policies and procedures. Communicate all
relevant new management decisions, policies and information to staff. Provide
professional advice to Professional Land Surveyors. Oversee and render
cadastral advisory and research services to all spheres of government, as well
as the public. Provide professional advice to Professional Land Surveyors,
government officials and organs of state. Provide feedback on proposed
cadastral documents to any competent authority empowered to grant or
approve a right to the use of land for a specified purpose. Assist with the
interpretation and legal implications for existing and proposed cadastral
documents, which have been or are to be registered in a Deeds Registry.
Provide responses to litigation documentation, including reports to court,
relating to existing or proposed cadastral documents. Liaise with the Registrar
of Deeds and officials from the Deeds Registry to ensure cadastral documents
approved in the office of the Surveyor-General are registerable and ensure
harmonious application of the cadastral system. Liaise with voluntary
geomatics organisations and professional bodies in the built environment
sector. Respond to any Presidential, Ministerial, Provincial hotline request or
Director-General task relating to the competencies and area of jurisdiction of
the office in which the official serves. Liaise with members of the public on
behalf of the Surveyor-General on complex or unusual land parcel boundary or
property legislation-related matters. Support the training and development of
officials in the cadastral system environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Kekana Tel No: (012) 312 8344
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 524
Stanza Bopape and Steve Biko Street, Suncardia Building, 6th Floor, Arcadia,
0002 or by email to Post185@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
47
POST 27/44 : DEPUTY SURVEYOR-GENERAL REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/186
Directorate: Examination Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal (Pietermaritzburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) as recognised by
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), specifically a four-year B or BSc
Degree in Geomatics / Land Surveying or related equivalent qualifications and
a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to
appointment. Registered as a Professional Land Surveyor with the South
African Geomatics Council. Registered as a Sectional Titles Practitioner in
terms of Section 5(2) of the Sectional Titles Act, 1986. Minimum of 5 years of
experience at middle/senior managerial level in a land surveying environment.
Appropriate post registration experience in cadastral surveying. A valid driver’s
licence. Job related knowledge: Cadastral Survey knowledge. Technical
System knowledge. Cadastral Spatial Information knowledge. Knowledge of
Land Information Systems, Land Administration Systems and Geographical
Information Management. Knowledge of advances in technology useful to the
Cadastral Survey System. Performance Management and Monitoring.
Government systems and structures. Government decision making processes.
Programme setting process. Understanding of the management information
and formal reporting system. Dealing with misconduct. Internal control and risk
management. Project management principles and tools. The political
landscape of South Africa. Job related skills: Project management. Team
management. Interpersonal relations. Budget forecasting. Computer literacy.
Resource planning. Problem solving and decision-making. Time management.
Business ability. Communication (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Manage the provisioning of registry services. Oversee the receipt and dispatch
of cadastral documents submitted for examination and approval. Ensure that
the necessary fees of office have been paid prior to the acceptance of cadastral
documents into the system. Oversee the provision of registry enquiry services.
Oversee the maintenance of the cadastral correspondence filing system.
Oversee the rendering of registry delivery and collection services. Manage the
rendering of first level examination services. Oversee the allocation of land
parcel numbers. Ensure technical compliance of all cadastral documents
prepared and submitted by Professional Land Surveyors. Ensure proper
application of all relevant land administration legislation, policies and
procedures. Communicate all relevant new management decisions, policies
and information to staff. Manage the rendering of second level examination
services. Oversee the examination and approval/rejection of all cadastral
documents prepared and submitted by Professional Land Surveyors. Report
on directorate progress as required. Ensure proper application of all relevant
land administration legislation, policies and procedures. Communicate all
relevant new management decisions, policies and information to staff. Provide
professional advice to Professional Land Surveyors. Oversee and render
cadastral advisory and research services to all spheres of government, as well
as the public. Provide professional advice to Professional Land Surveyors,
government officials and organs of state. Provide feedback on proposed
cadastral documents to any competent authority empowered to grant or
approve a right to the use of land for a specified purpose. Assist with the
interpretation and legal implications for existing and proposed cadastral
documents, which have been or are to be registered in a Deeds Registry.
Provide responses to litigation documentation, including reports to court,
relating to existing or proposed cadastral documents. Liaise with the Registrar
of Deeds and officials from the Deeds Registry to ensure cadastral documents
approved in the office of the Surveyor-General are registerable and ensure
harmonious application of the cadastral system. Liaise with voluntary
geomatics organisations and professional bodies in the built environment
sector. Respond to any Presidential, Ministerial, Provincial hotline request or
Director-General task relating to the competencies and area of jurisdiction of
the office in which the official serves. Liaise with members of the public on
behalf of the Surveyor-General on complex or unusual land parcel boundary or
property legislation-related matters. Support the training and development of
officials in the cadastral system environment.
48
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Kekana Tel No: (012) 312 8344
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 1st Floor,
270 Jabu Ndlovu Street (formerly known as Loop Street), Pietermaritzburg,
3200 or by email to Post186@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 27/45 : DEPUTY SURVEYOR-GENERAL REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/187
Directorate: Examination Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Cape Town)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) as recognised by
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), specifically a four-year B or BSc
Degree in Geomatics / Land Surveying or related equivalent qualifications and
a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to
appointment. Registered as a Professional Land Surveyor with the South
African Geomatics Council. Registered as a Sectional Titles Practitioner in
terms of Section 5(2) of the Sectional Titles Act, 1986. Minimum of 5 years of
experience at middle/senior managerial level in a land surveying environment.
Appropriate post registration experience in cadastral surveying. A valid driver’s
licence. Job related knowledge: Cadastral Survey knowledge. Technical
System knowledge. Cadastral Spatial Information knowledge. Knowledge of
Land Information Systems, Land Administration Systems and Geographical
Information Management. Knowledge of advances in technology useful to the
Cadastral Survey System. Performance Management and Monitoring.
Government systems and structures. Government decision making processes.
Programme setting process. Understanding of the management information
and formal reporting system. Dealing with misconduct. Internal control and risk
management. Project management principles and tools. The political
landscape of South Africa. Job related skills: Project management. Team
management. Interpersonal relations. Budget forecasting. Computer literacy.
Resource planning. Problem solving and decision-making. Time management.
Business ability. Communication (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Manage the provisioning of registry services. Oversee the receipt and dispatch
of cadastral documents submitted for examination and approval. Ensure that
the necessary fees of office have been paid prior to the acceptance of cadastral
documents into the system. Oversee the provision of registry enquiry services.
Oversee the maintenance of the cadastral correspondence filing system.
Oversee the rendering of registry delivery and collection services. Manage the
rendering of first level examination services. Oversee the allocation of land
parcel numbers. Ensure technical compliance of all cadastral documents
prepared and submitted by Professional Land Surveyors. Ensure proper
application of all relevant land administration legislation, policies and
procedures. Communicate all relevant new management decisions, policies
and information to staff. Manage the rendering of second level examination
services. Oversee the examination and approval/rejection of all cadastral
documents prepared and submitted by Professional Land Surveyors. Report
on directorate progress as required. Ensure proper application of all relevant
land administration legislation, policies and procedures. Communicate all
relevant new management decisions, policies and information to staff. Provide
professional advice to Professional Land Surveyors. Oversee and render
cadastral advisory and research services to all spheres of government, as well
as the public. Provide professional advice to Professional Land Surveyors,
government officials and organs of state. Provide feedback on proposed
cadastral documents to any competent authority empowered to grant or
approve a right to the use of land for a specified purpose. Assist with the
interpretation and legal implications for existing and proposed cadastral
documents, which have been or are to be registered in a Deeds Registry.
Provide responses to litigation documentation, including reports to court,
relating to existing or proposed cadastral documents. Liaise with the Registrar
of Deeds and officials from the Deeds Registry to ensure cadastral documents
approved in the office of the Surveyor-General are registerable and ensure
harmonious application of the cadastral system. Liaise with voluntary
49
geomatics organisations and professional bodies in the built environment
sector. Respond to any Presidential, Ministerial, Provincial hotline request or
Director-General task relating to the competencies and area of jurisdiction of
the office in which the official serves. Liaise with members of the public on
behalf of the Surveyor-General on complex or unusual land parcel boundary or
property legislation-related matters. Support the training and development of
officials in the cadastral system environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Kekana Tel No: (012) 312 8344
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 4th floor,
No 2 Riebeeck Street, ABSA Building, Cape Town or by email to
Post187@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 27/46 : DEPUTY SURVEYOR-GENERAL REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/188
Directorate: Examination, State and Land Reform Survey Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : North West (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) as recognised by
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), specifically a four-year B or BSc
Degree in Geomatics / Surveying or related equivalent qualifications and a
Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to
appointment. Registered as a Professional Land Surveyor with the South
African Geomatics Council. Registered as a Sectional Titles Practitioner in
terms of Section 5(2) of the Sectional Titles Act, 1986. Minimum of 5 years of
experience at middle/senior managerial level in a Land Surveying environment.
Appropriate post registration experience in cadastral surveying. A valid driver’s
licence. Job related knowledge: The Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa. Good governance and Batho Pele principles. Labour and Employment
Legislation. Public Service Regulations, 2016 (as amended). Public Finance
Management Act, 1999. Transformation of the Public Service. Employment
Equity Act, 1998. Deeds Registries Act, 1937. Land Survey Act, 1997.
Sectional Titles Act, 1986. South African Geomatics Professions Act, 2013.
South African Spatial Data Infrastructure Act, 2003. Spatial Planning and Land
Use Management Act, 2013. Mining Titles Registration Act, 1967. Other, all
other property related legislation, including old order legislation and
ordinances. Proclamation and policies applicable to Land Administration, Land
Measurement Standards, and Land Information Systems. International
Conventions on land policy and geographical information management.
Cadastral Survey knowledge. Technical System knowledge. Cadastral Spatial
Information knowledge. Knowledge of Land Information Systems, Land
Administration Systems and Geographical Information Management.
Knowledge of advances in technology useful to the Cadastral Survey System.
Performance Management and Monitoring. Government systems and
structures. Government decision making processes. Programme setting
process. Understanding of the management information and formal reporting
system. Dealing with misconduct. Internal control and risk management.
Project management principles and tools. The political landscape of South
Africa. Job related skills: Good interpersonal relations. Good communication
(verbal and written). Problem solving and decision-making. Dispute and conflict
management. Time management. Computer software. Project management.
Planning. Team management. Budget forecasting. Resource planning and
organising. Business.
DUTIES : Manage the provisioning of registry services. Oversee the receipt and dispatch
of cadastral documents submitted for examination and approval. Ensure that
the necessary fees of office have been paid prior to the acceptance of cadastral
documents into the system. Oversee the archiving of all documents. Oversee
the maintenance of the cadastral correspondence filing system. Oversee the
rendering of messenger services. Manage the rendering of first and second
level examination services. Oversee the allocation of land parcel numbers.
Ensure technical compliance of cadastral documents. Verify new cadastral
documents in relation to parent property information. Oversee the examination
and approval/rejection of all cadastral documents prepared and submitted by
50
Professional Land Surveyors. Provide professional advice to Professional
Land Surveyors and government officials. Report on directorate progress
monthly as required. Know and apply all relevant land administration
legislation, policies and procedures. Communicate all relevant new
management decisions, policies and information to staff on weekly basis.
Render and facilitate professional advice for land reform projects and state
surveys. Receive requests for land reform assistance as and when required.
Provide and oversee professional advisory services for land reform projects
and state surveys. Perform research on land reform projects and state surveys.
Plan the required land parcel boundary investigation when required. Generate
reports for land reform support according to findings and policy. Submit reports
on land reform findings upon finalisation. Consult with interested and affected
parties to land reform projects and state surveys. Ensure that the beacons
relating to a state survey have been pointed out and accepted by the relevant
officials including the beneficiaries where applicable prior to the approval of the
cadastral documents. Oversee and render professional advice on the cadastral
system and existing and proposed cadastral documentation. Provide
professional advice to Professional Land Surveyors, government officials and
organs of state. Provide feedback on proposed cadastral documents to any
competent authority empowered to grant or approve a right to the use of land
for a specified purpose. Assist with the interpretation and legal implications for
existing and proposed cadastral documents, which have been or are to be
registered in a Deeds Registry. Provide responses to litigation documentation,
including reports to the court relating to existing or proposed cadastral
documents. Liaise with the Registrar of Deeds and officials from the Deeds
Registry to ensure cadastral documents approved in the office of the Surveyor-
General are registerable and ensure harmonious application of the cadastral
system. Liaise with voluntary geomatics organisations and professional bodies
in the built environment sector. Respond to any presidential hotline request
relating to the competencies and area of jurisdiction of the office in which the
official serves. Liaise with members of the public on behalf of the Surveyor-
General on complex or unusual land parcel boundary or property legislation-
related matters. Liaise with custodians of geo-spatial information that either
support or depend upon Cadastral Spatial Information. Support the training and
development of officials in the cadastral system environment. Oversee the
undertaking of field surveys for verification of surveys, dispute resolution and
inspections. Test a survey for correctness, accuracy or authenticity in
accordance with legal provisions, if reason for doubt exists. Take necessary
action in connection with a survey tested for correctness, accuracy or
authenticity, when required. Prepare and submit a report in connection with an
application to a court, if deemed desirable. Undertake field surveys to identify
boundaries of state land properties to resolve boundary disputes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Kekana Tel No: (012) 312 8344
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Cnr
James Moroka and Sekame Drive, West Gallery, Megacity, Mmabatho, 2735
or by email to Post188@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 27/47 : DEPUTY SURVEYOR-GENERAL REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/189
Directorate: Examination, State and Land Reform Survey Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Free State (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) as recognised by
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), specifically a four-year B or BSc
Degree in Geomatics / Surveying or related equivalent qualifications and a
Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to
appointment. Registered as a Professional Land Surveyor with the South
African Geomatics Council. Registered as a Sectional Titles Practitioner in
terms of Section 5(2) of the Sectional Titles Act, 1986. Minimum of 5 years of
experience at middle/senior managerial level in a Land Surveying environment.
Appropriate post registration experience in cadastral surveying. A valid driver’s
licence. Job related knowledge: The Constitution of the Republic of South
51
Africa. Good governance and Batho Pele principles. Labour and Employment
Legislation. Public Service Regulations, 2016 (as amended). Public Finance
Management Act, 1999. Transformation of the Public Service. Employment
Equity Act, 1998. Deeds Registries Act, 1937. Land Survey Act, 1997.
Sectional Titles Act, 1986. South African Geomatics Professions Act, 2013.
South African Spatial Data Infrastructure Act, 2003. Spatial Planning and Land
Use Management Act, 2013. Mining Titles Registration Act, 1967. Other, all
other property related legislation, including old order legislation and
ordinances. Proclamation and policies applicable to Land Administration, Land
Measurement Standards, and Land Information Systems. International
Conventions on land policy and geographical information management.
Cadastral Survey knowledge. Technical System knowledge. Cadastral Spatial
Information knowledge. Knowledge of Land Information Systems, Land
Administration Systems and Geographical Information Management.
Knowledge of advances in technology useful to the Cadastral Survey System.
Performance Management and Monitoring. Government systems and
structures. Government decision making processes. Programme setting
process. Understanding of the management information and formal reporting
system. Dealing with misconduct. Internal control and risk management.
Project management principles and tools. The political landscape of South
Africa. Job related skills: Good interpersonal relations. Good communication
(verbal and written). Problem solving and decision-making. Dispute and conflict
management. Time management. Computer software. Project management.
Planning. Team management. Budget forecasting. Resource planning and
organising. Business.
DUTIES : Manage the provisioning of registry services. Oversee the receipt and dispatch
of cadastral documents submitted for examination and approval. Ensure that
the necessary fees of office have been paid prior to the acceptance of cadastral
documents into the system. Oversee the archiving of all documents. Oversee
the maintenance of the cadastral correspondence filing system. Oversee the
rendering of messenger services. Manage the rendering of first and second
level examination services. Oversee the allocation of land parcel numbers.
Ensure technical compliance of cadastral documents. Verify new cadastral
documents in relation to parent property information. Oversee the examination
and approval / rejection of all cadastral documents prepared and submitted by
Professional Land Surveyors. Provide professional advice to Professional
Land Surveyors and government officials. Report on directorate progress
monthly as required. Know and apply all relevant land administration
legislation, policies and procedures. Communicate all relevant new
management decisions, policies and information to staff on weekly basis.
Render and facilitate professional advice for land reform projects and state
surveys. Receive requests for land reform assistance as and when required.
Provide and oversee professional advisory services for land reform projects
and state surveys. Perform research on land reform projects and state surveys.
Plan the required land parcel boundary investigation when required. Generate
reports for land reform support according to findings and policy. Submit reports
on land reform findings upon finalisation. Consult with interested and affected
parties to land reform projects and state surveys. Ensure that the beacons
relating to a state survey have been pointed out and accepted by the relevant
officials including the beneficiaries where applicable prior to the approval of the
cadastral documents. Oversee and render professional advice on the cadastral
system and existing and proposed cadastral documentation. Provide
professional advice to Professional Land Surveyors, government officials and
organs of state. Provide feedback on proposed cadastral documents to any
competent authority empowered to grant or approve a right to the use of land
for a specified purpose. Assist with the interpretation and legal implications for
existing and proposed cadastral documents, which have been or are to be
registered in a Deeds Registry. Provide responses to litigation documentation,
including reports to the court relating to existing or proposed cadastral
documents. Liaise with the Registrar of Deeds and officials from the Deeds
Registry to ensure cadastral documents approved in the office of the Surveyor-
General are registerable and ensure harmonious application of the cadastral
system. Liaise with voluntary geomatics organisations and professional bodies
in the built environment sector. Respond to any presidential hotline request
relating to the competencies and area of jurisdiction of the office in which the
official serves. Liaise with members of the public on behalf of the Surveyor-
General on complex or unusual land parcel boundary or property legislation-
52
related matters. Liaise with custodians of geo-spatial information that either
support or depend upon Cadastral Spatial Information. Support the training and
development of officials in the cadastral system environment. Oversee the
undertaking of field surveys for verification of surveys, dispute resolution and
inspections. Test a survey for correctness, accuracy or authenticity in
accordance with legal provisions, if reason for doubt exists. Take necessary
action in connection with a survey tested for correctness, accuracy or
authenticity, when required. Prepare and submit a report in connection with an
application to a court, if deemed desirable. Undertake field surveys to identify
boundaries of state land properties to resolve boundary disputes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Kekana Tel No: (012) 312 8344
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 136
Charlotte Maxeke Street, SA Eagle Building, Bloemfontein, 9300 or by email to
Post189@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 27/48 : DEPUTY SURVEYOR-GENERAL REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/190
Directorate: Examination, State and Land Reform Survey Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) as recognised by
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), specifically a four-year B or BSc
Degree in Geomatics / Surveying or related equivalent qualifications and a
Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to
appointment. Registered as a Professional Land Surveyor with the South
African Geomatics Council. Registered as a Sectional Titles Practitioner in
terms of Section 5(2) of the Sectional Titles Act, 1986. Minimum of 5 years of
experience at middle / senior managerial level in a Land Surveying
environment. Appropriate post registration experience in cadastral surveying.
A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: The Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa. Good governance and Batho Pele principles. Labour
and Employment Legislation. Public Service Regulations, 2016 (as amended).
Public Finance Management Act, 1999. Transformation of the Public Service.
Employment Equity Act, 1998. Deeds Registries Act, 1937. Land Survey Act,
1997. Sectional Titles Act, 1986. South African Geomatics Professions Act,
2013. South African Spatial Data Infrastructure Act, 2003. Spatial Planning and
Land Use Management Act, 2013. Mining Titles Registration Act, 1967. Other,
all other property related legislation, including old order legislation and
ordinances. Proclamation and policies applicable to Land Administration, Land
Measurement Standards, and Land Information Systems. International
Conventions on land policy and geographical information management.
Cadastral Survey knowledge. Technical System knowledge. Cadastral Spatial
Information knowledge. Knowledge of Land Information Systems, Land
Administration Systems and Geographical Information Management.
Knowledge of advances in technology useful to the Cadastral Survey System.
Performance Management and Monitoring. Government systems and
structures. Government decision making processes. Programme setting
process. Understanding of the management information and formal reporting
system. Dealing with misconduct. Internal control and risk management.
Project management principles and tools. The political landscape of South
Africa. Job related skills: Good interpersonal relations. Good communication
(verbal and written). Problem solving and decision-making. Dispute and conflict
management. Time management. Computer software. Project management.
Planning. Team management. Budget forecasting. Resource planning and
organising. Business.
DUTIES : Manage the provisioning of registry services. Oversee the receipt and dispatch
of cadastral documents submitted for examination and approval. Ensure that
the necessary fees of office have been paid prior to the acceptance of cadastral
documents into the system. Oversee the archiving of all documents. Oversee
the maintenance of the cadastral correspondence filing system. Oversee the
rendering of messenger services. Manage the rendering of first and second
level examination services. Oversee the allocation of land parcel numbers.
53
Ensure technical compliance of cadastral documents. Verify new cadastral
documents in relation to parent property information. Oversee the examination
and approval/rejection of all cadastral documents prepared and submitted by
Professional Land Surveyors. Provide professional advice to Professional
Land Surveyors and government officials. Report on directorate progress
monthly as required. Know and apply all relevant land administration
legislation, policies and procedures. Communicate all relevant new
management decisions, policies and information to staff on weekly basis.
Render and facilitate professional advice for land reform projects and state
surveys. Receive requests for land reform assistance as and when required.
Provide and oversee professional advisory services for land reform projects
and state surveys. Perform research on land reform projects and state surveys.
Plan the required land parcel boundary investigation when required. Generate
reports for land reform support according to findings and policy. Submit reports
on land reform findings upon finalisation. Consult with interested and affected
parties to land reform projects and state surveys. Ensure that the beacons
relating to a state survey have been pointed out and accepted by the relevant
officials including the beneficiaries where applicable prior to the approval of the
cadastral documents. Oversee and render professional advice on the cadastral
system and existing and proposed cadastral documentation. Provide
professional advice to Professional Land Surveyors, government officials and
organs of state. Provide feedback on proposed cadastral documents to any
competent authority empowered to grant or approve a right to the use of land
for a specified purpose. Assist with the interpretation and legal implications for
existing and proposed cadastral documents, which have been or are to be
registered in a Deeds Registry. Provide responses to litigation documentation,
including reports to the court relating to existing or proposed cadastral
documents. Liaise with the Registrar of Deeds and officials from the Deeds
Registry to ensure cadastral documents approved in the office of the Surveyor-
General are registerable and ensure harmonious application of the cadastral
system. Liaise with voluntary geomatics organisations and professional bodies
in the built environment sector. Respond to any presidential hotline request
relating to the competencies and area of jurisdiction of the office in which the
official serves. Liaise with members of the public on behalf of the Surveyor-
General on complex or unusual land parcel boundary or property legislation-
related matters. Liaise with custodians of geo-spatial information that either
support or depend upon Cadastral Spatial Information. Support the training and
development of officials in the cadastral system environment. Oversee the
undertaking of field surveys for verification of surveys, dispute resolution and
inspections. Test a survey for correctness, accuracy or authenticity in
accordance with legal provisions, if reason for doubt exists. Take necessary
action in connection with a survey tested for correctness, accuracy or
authenticity, when required. Prepare and submit a report in connection with an
application to a court, if deemed desirable. Undertake field surveys to identify
boundaries of state land properties to resolve boundary disputes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Kekana Tel No: (012) 312 8344
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Ocean
Terrace, Block H, corner of Coutts and Moore Street, Quigney, East London or
by email to Post190@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/49 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC LAND ACQUISITION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/199
Directorate: Strategic Land Acquisition
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Agricultural Studies / Agricultural
Economics / Development Studies / Town and Regional Planning / Social
Sciences / Real Estate / Property Management (NQF Level 6) or related
54
equivalent qualifications. Minimum of 3 years’ experience at junior
management level in Strategic Land Acquisition. A valid driver’s licence. Job
related knowledge: Land Reform: Provision of Land and Assistance Act 126 of
1993 as amended. Labour Tenants Act, 3 of 1996. Restitution of Land Rights
Act 22 of 1994. Extension Security of Tenure Act, 62 of 1997 as amended.
State Land Lease and Disposal policy. Beneficiary Selection and Land
Allocation Policy. Knowledge of post settlement support programmes.
Knowledge of Agrarian Transformation as well as key priorities of government.
Knowledge of Comprehensive Rural Development Programmes (CRDP). Land
Reform Prescripts and other relevant departmental prescripts. Job related
skills: Communication (verbal and written). Strategic management.
Negotiation. Computer literacy. Stakeholder relations. Facilitation /
coordination. Presentation. Financial management. Project management.
Interpersonal relations. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Coordinate the acquisition of strategically located land aligned to the national
imperatives. Provide support to district offices on the identification and
acquisition of strategically located land suitable for acquisition by the State.
Maintain and update project register of all suitable land acquisition for the
State. Facilitate mapping and overlaying of the identified land with key
commodities. Manage the assessment and valuation of identified properties.
Align acquired land to other departmental interventions and programmes.
Provide support on land acquisition approval process through relevant
structures. Monitor updates of projects in terms of the Enterprise Project
Management Office (EPMO) requirements. Facilitate the selection of suitable
candidate and allocation of land. Ensure quality assurance and information
management services between district, provincial and national office. Ensure
that the land allocation process is compliant to the Beneficiary Selection Policy.
Coordinate the selection process of beneficiaries for the land allocation.
Coordinate land allocation process through relevant approval structures.
Facilitate proper handover of allocated land to Property Management. Provide
land acquisition support services across districts including District Land
Committees. Support land acquisition procedures within relevant policy and
programme guidelines. Coordinate the liaison with relevant role-players /
stakeholders with regards to land acquisition projects support requirements
Ensure coordination of the transfer and registration process. Facilitate the
appointment of a Conveyancer. Facilitate signing of the deed of sale. Facilitate
the signing of expedition letters. Facilitate the processing of payments.
ENQUIRIES : DT Machoga Tel No: (015) 495 1955 / LS Mahasha Tel No: (015) 495 1956
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 61
Biccard street, Polokwane, 0700 or by email to Post199@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 27/50 : PROJECT COORDINATOR REF NO 3/1/1/1/2026/193 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Operational Management
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and Bachelor’s Degree / National Diploma in Agriculture /
Development Studies / Social Science / Law or any related equivalent
qualification. Minimum 3 years’ experience in land reform environment. A valid
driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Development management including
strategic management. Research methods and techniques. Community
facilitation. Understand and Interpret Business Plan. Thorough knowledge in
land reform and development-related issues. Knowledge of Restitution of land
rights. Knowledge of Land Reform. Knowledge of rural development.
Development management including strategic management. Understanding
and interpret Business Plan. Job related skills: Project management.
Negotiation. Contract management. Leadership. Communication (verbal and
written). Ability to draft terms of reference for service providers. Ability to
manage consultants. Excellent report writing. Initiative, able to take
responsibility and meet deadlines. Computer literacy. Ability to produce report.
Ability to facilitate community meetings. Good networking. Ability to draft terms
of reference for service providers. Willingness to travel, to spend extended
periods in the field and work irregular hours.
55
DUTIES : Coordinate the lodgement of land claims. Categorise claims per local
municipality. Engage municipalities on claims to be settled. Validate land
claims. Conduct oral and archival research. Conduct site inspection process
(Mapping). Identify homestead. Partaking in analysis of aerial photograph
reports. Facilitate where there are overlapping land claims. Facilitate
separation of tenants, beneficial of occupation and registered land rights. Verify
lodged claim. Conduct in loco inspection. Produce in loco inspection report.
Assist in closing of commitment register. Coordinate clearance of suspense
account. Manage payment of beneficiaries. Negotiate the settlement of claims.
Conduct option exercise with claimants. Identify claims for historical and
current valuation by the Office of the Valuer General. Escalate historical
valuation for offers. Settle the claims. Conduct verification process. Conduct
analysis of family tree. Sign off completed name verification report. Draft
Section 42d submission.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Vuuren Tel No: (043) 701 8127 or Ms AC Kili Tel No: (043) 701 8186
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Ocean
Terrace, Block H, corner of Coutts and Moore Street, Quigney, East London or
by email to Post193@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 27/51 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/192
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Human Resources Management / Labour
Relations / Human Resource Development / Public Administration / Public
Management (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3
years’ experience at supervisory management in human resource
management. PERSAL Personnel Certificate, PERSAL Leave Administration
Certificate. Knowledge and experience in pension administration. A valid
driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Employment Equity Act. Public Service
Regulations. Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Public Service Act. Skills
Development Act. Labour Relations Act. Public Service Co-ordinating
Bargaining Council (PSCBC) resolutions. Promotion of Access to Information
Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA). Public Finance
Management Act. Job related skills: Analytical thinking. Communication (verbal
and written). Computer literacy. Report writing ability. Problem solving ability.
DUTIES : Implement and monitor human resources prescripts. Implement human
resource management resolutions. Keep employees well informed on new
developments of human resource prescripts. Monitor employee benefits and
conditions of service. Oversee processing of service terminations timeously.
Check and ensure correct completion/submission of pension forms including
nomination forms. Keep and maintain a database for submitted cases to
Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF). Follow-up on all outstanding
pension claims with GEPF. Assist deceased employee’s family to claim funeral
benefit from GEPF. Identify, draw and keep annual list of all employees due to
retirement. Make payment follow-ups and attend to pension queries. Provide
feedback to pension beneficiaries. Recover all liabilities from pension
proceeds. Coordinate or conduct service benefits workshops. Ensure
compliance with the relevant prescripts when processing allowances. Ensure
correct implementation of allowances on PERSAL e.g. housing acting etc.
Approve leave transactions and ensure that correct codes are used. Ensure
that leave applications comply with policies and prescripts. Ensure submission
of leave plans and adherence thereof. Verify correctness of incapacity
applications and ensure timeous submission to the Health Risk Manager.
Liaise with the Health Risk Manager regarding submitted incapacity
applications. Implement decision. Verify over granted leave prior to service
termination of officials. Check and verify leave gratuity/discounting calculations
and ensure correctness. Conduct workshops/induction on leave. Conduct
leave audits. Facilitate and implement performance management, training and
development. Check the database of Personal Development Plans (PDP’s).
Consolidate provincial inputs of Workplace Skills Plans (WSP) which
addresses skills requirements. Check compliance of submissions of
56
employees requiring training. Coordinate provincial training and development
activities. Consolidate training statistics. Approve Employee Performance
Management and Development System (EPMDS) documents on PERSAL.
Ensure that EPMS statistics is updated and submitted weekly. Arrange
moderating committee (MC) meetings. Check and quality assure MC outcome
letters. Compile memo for approval of performance rewards. Approve /
authorise the implemented performance rewards. Register System Change
Control (SCC) to correct service records of employees after payment of pay
progression. Do arrangements to process payments of employees who
terminated service with the Department. Arrange meetings to discuss
dissatisfaction cases. Monitor and implement recruitment and selection. Check
funded and vacant posts on PERSAL. Verify submission and supporting
documents for advertisement. Ensure that employment equity targets are
updated. Monitor adherence to recruitment and selection plans. Check minutes
and proceedings after the shortlisting process. Check submission for selection
of suitable candidates. Confirm security screening and qualification screening
results. Ensure that posts are filled within the prescribed period. Approve
appointments, transfers, translation on PERSAL. Ensure that officials are
correctly placed on PERSAL. Facilitate and monitor employee relations
processes. Monitor disciplinary cases submitted for compliance with
prescribed timeframes. Check progress on the resolution of cases with
National Office. Assist with the implementation of sanctions. Monitor
compilation statistics on disciplinary cases submitted. Facilitate meetings with
organised labour. Provide advice on grievances, misconduct and discipline
matters. Implement the disciplinary hearing sanctions. Facilitate the resolution
of grievances within the prescribed period.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Vuuren Tel No: (043) 701 8127 or Ms AC Kili Tel No: (043) 701 8186
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Ocean
Terrace, Block H, corner of Coutts and Moore Street, Quigney, East London or
by email to Post192@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured and Indian Males and Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities
POST 27/52 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CURRENT AFFAIRS REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/200
Directorate: Internal Communications
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Communications / Journalism / Media /
Marketing / Public Relations (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent qualification.
Minimum of 3 years’ experience in communications service environment.
Proven experience in social media management, content creation, and
campaign execution is often required. A valid driver’s licence. Job related
knowledge: Knowledge of Policies and legislations governing communication.
Exhibitions and events as communication platforms. Job related skills:
Computer literacy. Interpersonal. relations. Communication (verbal and
written). Analytical thinker. Decision making. Problem solving and
organisational ability. Social media ability. Ability and willingness to travel
extensively and work outside office hours.
DUTIES : Manage the daily media monitoring service. Conduct media monitoring to keep
track of media coverage about land reform, land administration and rural
development. Collate news media clippings. Distribute media clippings to
clients nationally, including Provincial Shared Service Centers (PSSCs)
through e-mail and other platforms. Provide media rapid response service in
collaboration with Government Communication and Information System
(GCIS) on pertinent or controversial media reportage. Keep track of all social
media platforms, publish regularly, reply to posts and engage with audiences
to build relationships and brand loyalty. Analyse departmental media coverage.
Produce weekly media coverage report with summaries of the week’s main
stories. Track and report on social media analytics, monitor key performance
indicators for compilation of periodic reports. Advice management on proactive
actions to counter negative publicity in the traditional and social media spaces.
Source and develop regular content for use on internal and external media and
marketing platforms, including audio-visual, print and digital communication
platforms, including Facebook, X App, TikTok, and Instagram. Manage and
coordinate departmental Podcast and other supplementary digital
57
communication platforms. Contribute articles / stories to newsletters. Provide
communication support during events of the Department. Profile branches,
entities and stakeholders of the Department. Interview internal and external
clients of the Department. Develop innovative ways for new articles writing,
publishing and distribution. Manage, supervise, and give guidance to
subordinates. Assign tasks to staff members. Provide guidance to staff
members on how task should be performed. Assess performance of
subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F. Mutangwa Tel No: (012) 312 8283
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post200@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 27/53 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/191
Directorate: Quality Assurance and Administration
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Information Management / Information
Science / Records Management (NQF Level 6) or National Diploma in
Business Administration or related equivalent qualification. Minimum of 2 years’
experience in restitution, records management environment, registry services.
A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of statistical,
registry and records management. Knowledge of projects and process.
Knowledge of government legislation that governs National Archives and
Records Service Act. Job related skills: Time management skills. Planning and
organising skills. Decision making skills. Computer literacy. Analytical skills.
Telephone etiquette. Interpersonal and communication (verbal and written)
skills. Ability to carry out registry and records management activities. The ability
to always work efficiently and effectively.
DUTIES : Develop, administer and maintain restitution land claims database. Maintain
the implementation of file plan in the office. Check the quality of standardised
files. Compile the report of standardised files and inventory. Update inventory
of standardised files. Update inventory of approved Section 42D’s. Provide
land restitution claims related information. Compile spreadsheet on letters
complied for claimants. Give claimants accurate information regarding the
status of their claims. Respond to general enquiries about the lodgement of
land claims. Update statistical information for the office in all land claims lodged
and settled. Provide registry services. Receive and issue brown files not
scanned on Electronic Document Management System (EDMS). Receive and
register incoming files. Keep records of files and collected information for
existing land claims. Ensure that registry rules are adhered to by officials.
Monitor access to registry system. Monitor and control movement of files by
registering them on movement control sheet. Conduct file audit to ensure that
no files are kept for more than 5 days in officials office unless the official ask
for extension. Maintain office search. Ensure all files transferred to registry are
recorded from clients. File indexing. Spot check on file at registry/incident audit.
Maintaining filling system. Capture approved projects or files for easy retrieval
in registry and create file number for approved Section 42D, Section 42C and
Section 42E. Check all Section 42D’s dispatched to and received from national
office if all documents are signed and returned same as was dispatched.
Update and provide land claims information to project teams to enable the
acceptance and gazetting of claims. Receive and register incoming and
approved files. Update the status of the claims on approved acceptance
research report, non-compliant, dismissed, deferred and gazetted claims.
Ensure that new information received from operational units is captured on
spreadsheet. Keep statistics of files captured on spreadsheet and report
monthly. Coordinate and execute other administrative duties. Provide clerical
support services to the directorate. Provide personnel administration clerical
support services. Provide financial administration services in the component.
Process documents for archival and disposal. Operate office machine in
relation to registry functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Vuuren Tel No: (043) 701 8127 or Ms A Kili Tel No: (043) 701 8186
58
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Ocean
Terrace, Block H, corner of Coutts and Moore Street, Quigney, East London or
by email to Post191@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 27/54 : SENIOR PROJECT OFFICER: LAND DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/194
Directorate: District Office
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi: Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and Bachelor’s Degree in Agricultural Economics / Agri Business /
Agricultural Management / LLB (NQF Level 7) or related equivalent
qualification. Minimum of 2 years relevant experience in land reform
environment. A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of the
Department’s policies, prescripts and practices pertaining to Land Reform.
Knowledge and understanding of sector needs and business requirements. In-
depth knowledge of policy development and monitoring and evaluation
techniques. Knowledge and understanding of government development
policies, e.g. National Development Plan, National Growth Path, Planning and
Budgeting Framework, etc. Research methodology. Good corporate
governance principles. Knowledge in human and financial management. Job
related skills: Project management. Communication (verbal and written).
Agricultural development. Conflict management. Stakeholder mobilisation.
Financial management. Computer literacy. Information management and
analytical thinking. Willingness to trave.
DUTIES : Implement projects for the development of producers towards
commercialisation. Assist with co-ordinating the process of identifying
producers to be supported. Assist in the establishment and management of
partnerships between producers and development partners. Organise capacity
building and training programmes for producers. Facilitate the appointment of
prospective strategic partners and service providers. Facilitate resource
mapping and mobilisation of all identified farms for development in line with
departmental priorities, Annual Performance Plan and Operational Plan of the
Branch. Assist in facilitation of the development and approval of project
registers. Assist in facilitation of farm assessment and feasibility studies.
Compile reports and assist in the development of business plans. Co-ordinate
processes toward approval of projects. Co-ordinate the compilation of approval
documents. Ensure alignment and compliance of submissions to the policies /
standard operating procedures. Present the submissions to the relevant
committees and structures. Promote good corporate governance and
compliance with financial and human resource. Conduct ongoing monitoring
and reporting of projects under implementation. Adhere to relevant prescripts
and legislative framework (human and financial resources). Assist in mitigation
of the identified operational and fraud risks. Adhere to internal and external
controls in line with the policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Vuuren Tel No: (043) 701 8127 or Ms AC Kili Tel No: (043) 701 8186
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Ocean
Terrace, Block H, corner of Coutts and Moore Street, Quigney, East London or
by email to Post194@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 27/55 : SENIOR PROJECT OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/195
Directorate: Operational Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape (East London)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and Bachelor’s Degree / National Diploma in Agriculture /
Development Studies / Social Science / Law (NQF Level 6) or related
equivalent qualification. Minimum of 2 years’ experience in land reform
environment. A valid driver’s license. Job related knowledge: Development
management including strategic management. Research methods and
techniques. Community facilitation. Understand and interpret business plans.
59
Thorough knowledge in land reform and development related issues.
Knowledge of restitution of land rights. Knowledge of land reform. Knowledge
of rural development. Job related skills: Project management. Negotiation.
Contract management. Leadership ability. Communication (verbal and written).
Ability to draft terms of reference for service providers. Ability to manage
consultants. Excellent report writing ability. Initiative, able to take responsibility
and meet deadlines. Computer literacy. Ability to produce report. Ability to
facilitate community meetings. Good networking ability. Willingness to travel,
to spend extended period in the field and work irregular hours.
DUTIES : Investigate and validate restitution claims. Gather oral and documentary
evidence. Compile research report and gazette the claim. Verify the
beneficiaries of lodged claims. Compile family tree and gather supporting
documents. Compile verification reports. Negotiate the settlement of claims.
Conduct options from the claimants. Conduct resolution of the claims. Prepare
terms of reference for valuation and Office of the Valuer-General (OVG)
recommendations. Compile spreadsheet for valuations. Conduct deeds
research for properties. Facilitate the finalisation of lodged claims Compile
offers from OVG recommendations. Compile Section 42D on approved offers.
Engage with stakeholders and manage land claims enquiries. Respond to all
enquiries (Ministerial, Chief Director, Director-General, Chief Land Claims
Commissioner, Premier). Respond to Presidentials.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Vuuren Tel No: (043) 701 8127 or Ms AC Kili Tel No: (043) 701 8186
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Ocean
Terrace, Block H, corner of Coutts and Moore Street, Quigney, East London or
by email to Post195@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Indian and White Females
and Persons with disabilities.
POST 27/56 : SENIOR IMAGERY ASSISTANT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/196
Directorate: Geo-Spatial Information and Professional Support
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Mowbray)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. No experience required. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of
basic image correction. Knowledge to operate and maintain large format
printers, scanning and lamination machines. Job related skills: Communication
(verbal and written). Organising ability. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Print Orthophoto paper prints produced on the appropriate printing device. Print
Orthophoto paper prints for production, digitally or from scanned images. Scan
images from films and/or hard copies. Scan images for production and/or
archive to required resolution. Maintain equipment. Keep equipment clean and
perform calibrations on a weekly basis. Report on defective machines.
Undertake lamination of prints. Laminate products as required. Provide general
assistance to Artisans. Retrieve and store aerial films. Retrieve and store hard
copy aerial images from archive. Retrieve and store photographic / printing
consumables. Deliver completed printed maps / aerial photographs from
Reprographic Division to Map Distribution. Trim completed maps / aerial
photographs printed on the HP Plotters. Stock-take Reprographic
consumables and keep accurate consumable register. Maintain quality
standards set by the Department. Maintain the standards of quality set by the
Department on an ongoing basis.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Madlala Tel No: (021) 658 4300
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 4th floor,
No 2 Riebeeck Street, ABSA Building, Cape Town or by email to
Post196@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 27/57 : FINANCE CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/197
Office of the Surveyor General
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job related knowledge: Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate a computer and collate
60
financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial
legislations procedures and Treasury Regulations (Public Finance
Management Act, Division of Revenue Act, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, Financial
Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS,
LOGIS, etc). Job related skills: Planning and organisational. Computer literacy.
Communication (verbal and written). Basic numeracy.
DUTIES : Render financial accounting transactions. Receive invoices. Check invoices for
correctness, verification and approval (internal control). Process invoices (e.g.
capture payments). Filing of all documents. Collection of cash. Perform salary
administration support services. Receive salary advices. Process advices (e.g.
check advices for correctness, capture salaries, bonuses, salary adjustments,
capture all deductions etc). File all documents. Perform bookkeeping support
services. Capture all financial transactions. Clear suspense accounts. Record
debtors and creditors. Process electronic banking transactions. Compile
journals. Monitor and follow up on debtor accounts. Register new debts. Follow
up on debt related submissions (State Attorney cases etc). Send statements to
debtors monthly either by post or by email. Render a budget support service.
Collect information from budget holders. Compare expenditure against budget.
Identify variances. Capture, allocate virements on the budgets. Distribute
documents regarding the budget. File all documents. Receive and capture
cash payments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Nkuna Tel No: (015) 495 1905
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 61
Biccard street, Polokwane, 0700 or by email to Post197@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE :’ EE TARGETS: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and
White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 27/58 : AUXILIARY SERVICE OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/198
Directorate: Cadastral Information, Maintenance and Supply Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. No experience required. Job related knowledge: Computer literacy.
Basic understanding of maps and cadastral documents. Job related skills:
Good interpersonal relations. Good verbal and written communication.
Computer software. Good organising. Above average attention to detail.
DUTIES : Process documents for cadastral requirements. Receive and register
diagrams, general plans, sectional titles and survey records. Reproduce
cadastral documents for the registration copies. Administer cadastral
documents. Make ‘dummy trips’ and ‘mark out’ boards for all document vaults.
Ensure that worn-out hanging strips are replaced, and damaged documents
are repaired. Provide cadastral information to internal and external clients.
Extract and deliver documents requested by staff manning and public counters
on behalf of external clients. Supply cadastral information to external clients.
Capture cadastral data. Capture alpha-numeric data from cadastral documents
into the database. Correct captured errors/omissions in data when requested.
Scan cadastral documents. Scan all newly approved cadastral documents.
Attend to all requests and projects for rescans, missing images, Client Service
Centre and other divisions. Archive cadastral documents. Prepare and file all
these documents in their respective documents’ vaults. Conduct a random
check of the state of filing as well as the state of documents. Archive newly
approved cadastral documents and refill old documents. Insert mark out boards
and dummy trips in the place of extracted documents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Nkuna Tel No: (015) 495 1905
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 61
Biccard street, Polokwane, 0700 or by email to Post198@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
61
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES
The Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources (DMPR) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action
employer and it is its intention to promote representivity in the Public Sector through the filling of this
post. Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity are encouraged to
apply, particularly persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An
indication of such, in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must be submitted via DMPR E-Recruitment System accessible
using the following link https://erecruitment.dmpr.gov.za. Applications must
create a user profile by completing all required personal information and setting
up your login credential on DMPR E-Recruitment System. Once registration is
complete and logged in to the system, you may browse all vacant positions.
Another option is to submit application by post or courier, quoting relevant
reference, addressed to: The Director-General, Department of Mineral and
Petroleum Resources, Private Bag X59, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively,
applications may also be hand delivered to Trevenna Campus, corner Meintjies
and Francis Baard Street, former Schoeman. General enquiries may be
brought to the attention of Ms T Gumede Tel No: (012) 444- 3319.
CLOSING DATE : 18 August 2026
NOTE : Applications are strongly advised to complete and attach recent Z83
application form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued by the
Minister of Public Service Administration in line with regulation 10 of the Public
Service Regulations, 2016 as amended, which is obtainable online from
www.dpsa.gov.za and detailed Curriculum Vitae when submitting applications
on DMPR E-Recruitment System. Applications must be submitted on the recent
Z83 application form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued
by the Minister of Public Service Administration in line with regulation 10 of the
Public Service Regulations, 2016 as amended, which is obtainable online from
www.gov.za and www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be completed
(In full, accurately, legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated), and
accompanied by a comprehensive/ detailed Curriculum Vitae only. Applicants
are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will be
required from shortlisted candidates only on or before the day of the interview.
The Curriculum Vitae must have at least three (3) reference persons and their
contacts. Failure to provide accurate information on a job application as well
as incomplete information will result in a disqualification. Job applicants in
possession of a foreign qualification(s), must also provide an evaluation
certificate obtainable from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If
an invitation for an interview is not received within three (3) months after the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Requirements
stated on the advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore,
criteria for shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications
received. Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical exercise
and an oral interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks
(PSC) will be conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore will be
required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department
to conduct this exercise. PSC includes security screening and vetting,
qualification verification, criminal records, financial records checks. Applicants
who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as
application received after the closing date will not be considered. If an applicant
wishes to withdraw an application, He/ She must do so in writing. It is also
important to note that the Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised post at any stage of the recruitment process.
OTHER POST
POST 27/59 : INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HYGIENE REF NO: 086
Re-advertisement, candidates who applied previously need not to re-apply
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Free State Region, Welkom
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Occupational Hygiene or Environmental Health (NQF6)
plus Certificate in Mine Environmental Control with minimum 3 years’
62
experience in Occupational Hygiene and a driver’s license, Knowledge of: Mine
Health and Safety Act Regulations and Legal Hazard identification and risk
management, Public Service Code, DMPR Policies, Skills: Ability to interpret
and apply Mine Health and Safety Act, DMPR Policy and staff codes,
management skills: Planning, Leading, Organising and controlling, report
writing and formulation, good interpersonal relations, Be able to recommend
mining occupational solutions, negotiation skills, language proficiency and
computer skills, Thinking demand: Innovative thinker, Analyse situations
carefully, make fair and reasonable.
DUTIES : Conduct and report on underground, shaft and surface audits and inspection
on matter relating to occupational hygiene exposures, stressors and other
matter relating to mine occupational hygiene and take the necessary
enforcement action where necessary. Investigate and report on mine related
accident, contraventions, and complaints as well as the analyses of mine
accidents and trends to determine high risk mining operations and take
appropriate action. Serve on any necessary boards of examiners. Investigate,
consult, and provide input on mine closure, prospecting rights, mining rights
and permit, EMP’s and township development. Provide inputs to regional
reports, revision of mining regulations, guideline and standard and application
of exemptions, permissions and approvals related to occupational hygiene.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Nyaqcela Tel No: (057) 391 1373/71
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. NB Indian /Coloured or
white female are encouraged to apply.
63
ANNEXURE L
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office: Midrand: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand,1685.
Western Cape: Cape Town: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct
your application to: The provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal
Address: Private Bag X9020, Cape Town, 8000, or hand deliver applications to
the Office of the Chief Justice, Provincial Service centre 30 Queen Victoria
Street, Cape Town.
KwaZulu-Natal: Durban: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X54314, Durban, 4001. Applications can also be hand delivered to 1st Floor
Office No 118, CNR Somtseu & Stalwart Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000.
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. Applicants could be required to
provide consent for access to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment
for SMS, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme:
Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA
which is an online course, endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry
into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, social media, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
64
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
ERRATUM: Kindly take note that the post of Deputy Director: Security
Management with Ref No: 2026/70/OCJ advertised on Public Service Vacancy
Circular 24 dated 10 July 2026 is a re-advertisement, Candidates who
previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/60 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: 2026/88/OCJ
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package, consisting
of 70%/ 75% basic salary and 30%/25% flexible portion that may be structured
in terms of the applicable rules. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Strategic
Management / Corporate Governance / Social Sciences / Development
Studies / Economic Science / Public Administration or relevant qualification at
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience
of which three (3) years should be at ASD/Junior Management in the Strategic
Planning environment. A valid driver’s license will serve as an added
advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge
and Skills: Knowledge of National Treasury Prescripts, extensive knowledge
and experience in strategy formulation, strategic planning or management
service capacity environment, a sound knowledge of public finance legislation,
knowledge of Strategic Framework on Planning (APP & Strategic Plan),
Statistical knowledge, knowledge of Government prescripts, Public Finance
Management Act, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulation 2016 and
Public Service Transformation. Skilled in advanced computer literacy,
advanced communication (verbal & written), financial management,
presentation, planning and organising, analytical and decision-making,
problem solving, strategising, report writing and project management.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development and approval of the OCJ Strategic, Annual
Performance and Operational Plan: Develop circulars, timeframes and
guidelines/ template for the APP, facilitate inputs for the development of the
OCJ Strategic and Annual Performance Plan, ensure alignment of OCJ SP and
APP is compliant with the planning prescripts, and compile the SP and APP
presentations. Assist in coordinating Strategy and Service Delivery Planning
(SDP) processes, including performance reporting, data analysis, and
monitoring of institutional targets. Conduct the Situational Analysis for the OCJ:
Conduct analysis of the internal and external environment as it relates to the
OCJ and determine the analysis’s particular goals and objectives as well as
the stakeholders that will be participating. Manage the Sub Directorate:
Management of performance and development, undertake Human Resource
and other related administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms P. Mahlangu Tel No: (010) 493 2501
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: 2026/88/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 27/61 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SDIP REF NO: 2026/89/OCJ
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
65
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Public
Administration or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of two (2) years’ experience in the field. A valid driver’s
license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and understanding of Service
Delivery Improvement Programmes, Batho Pele Principles, Strategic Planning,
records management and customer satisfaction survey methodologies. Skilled
in computer literacy, planning and analysis, problem solving, time
management, presentation, communication and report writing, presentation.
along with the following attributes: honesty, accountability, team player,
attention to detail, flexibility, creativity and self-motivated.
DUTIES : Provide technical and administrative support in the development,
implementation and monitoring of the OCJ Service Delivery Charter and
Service Delivery Improvement Plan. Participate in the development and
drafting, implementation and monitoring of the Service Delivery Improvement
Plan (SDIP) and develop quarterly and annual SDC and SDIP reporting
templates. Coordinate Public Service Month (PSM) /Integrated Public Service
Programmes (IPSP), Batho Pele activities, and customer satisfaction surveys:
Consult with Communications Unit on PSM/IPSP awareness posters and
conduct research on PSM/IPSP poster content according to DPSA directives.
Provide administrative and technical support during the development and
implementation of OCJ Strategic and Annual Performance Plan and
Operational Plan: Provide support in coordinating the development of the OCJ
Strategic, Annual Performance and Operational Plans. Develop and edit draft
monthly and quarterly reports for inputs in line with the Operational Plan.
Maintain records management, resources, and correspondences of the
Strategy and Service Delivery Planning Unit: Arrange stationery for the unit,
maintain filing of documents and provide ad hoc administrative duties when
required within the SSDP unit.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms P. Mahlangu Tel No: (010) 493 2501
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. S. Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/89/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 27/62 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2026/90/OCJ
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Labour Appeals Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Interpreting or
equivalent qualification in the field of languages at NQF level 6 with 360 credits
as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of one (01) year practical experience in
Interpreting environment or a Grade 12 certificate with at least ten (10) years’
practical experience in Interpreting environment. Proficiency in English and
Isizulu, proficiency in any other indigenous language, i.e. Xhosa, Sotho,
Tswana or Zulu and a valid driver’s license will serve as an added advantage.
All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part
of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on
the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills:
Knowledge of relevant Acts and Regulations, knowledge of culture, knowledge
of subject area, know how to translate and be able to keep time frame. Skilled
in computer literacy (MS Office), effective communication (written and verbal),
time Management, good interpersonal relations, planning and organising,
decision-making, analytical thinking, excellent English language, problem
solving, along with the following attributes: Flexible, self-driven and motivated,
ability to work under pressure, accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Render interpreting services. Interpret in Criminal proceedings, Civil
proceedings, Older Persons Act matters, Family Protection from Harassment
Act matters, Labour Court matters, Maintenance Act matters, Child Justice
matters, Inquests and Equality Court matters, Interpret in pre-trial proceedings
and consultations. Liaise with Supervisor for foreign language interpreters,
interpret from source target language during Court proceedings for pre-trials
consultations, interpret non-verbal gestures, dramatisation and confessions.
66
Engage with the Judiciary to confer on the readiness and/or performance in
Court. Render audible and clear interpreting from source to target language
without embellishment or omissions while preserving the language. Convey the
correct language in accordance with the language usage of the speaker.
Control the speaker and ensure that the citations are interpreted correctly.
Translate legal documents and exhibits. Study and analyse the source
documents. Conduct the necessary research and consult with the relevant
parties. Ensure accurate cite translation of documents. Check, edit and revise
the translated documents. Translate mechanically recorded audio material.
Develop terminology and provide support in the reconstruction of records.
Accumulate terminology and develop a database. Populate the terms and
respective meaning in the glossary register. Gather all trial documents
necessary to aid interpretation. Coin words and perform specific line and
administrative support functions to the Judiciary, Court Manager and
Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr S Cele Tel No: (031) 492 6207
HR Related Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/90/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 27/63 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2026/91/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Labour And Labour Appeals Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of Grade 12 certificate or equivalent
qualification at NQF level four (4) as recognised by SAQA. No experience is
required. Experience in general Legal Administration and /or a minimum of one
(1) year’ Administration experience in a Legal environment, LLB Degree / B
com Law/BA Law/ Paralegal and/or an equivalent qualification and a driver’s
license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Services
Legislation, Prescripts and Regulations. Skilled in research, communication
(verbal and written), presentation, minute taking and report writing, problem
solving and decision making and time management, good reporting, planning
and organising, creative and analytical thinking and computer literacy (MS
Office).
DUTIES : Attend to enquiries from the public and Legal Practitioner for the upliftment of
files, receiving pleading/ notice from Legal Practitioner/ Messenger for filling
and stamping with date stamp, attend to filling of pleadings in the
corresponding Court file, attend to drawing requested files and putting away
Court files daily. Ensure that all requested for re-issuing of Court orders are
attended to. Court online related duties. Assisting with enquiries from the public
and legal practitioner and assist the Registrars with the locating of missing files.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr.SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 424 9035
HR Related Enquiries: Mr. SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/91/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
67
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be posted / or hand-delivered to: The Department of
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (DPME), Attention: Human Resource
Admin & Recruitment, at Private Bag X944, Pretoria, 0028 or hand delivered
to 330 Grosvenor Street, Hatfield, Pretoria 0028 (please quote the relevant
post and reference number).
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026 @ 16:30
WEBSITE : www.dpme.gov.za
NOTE : The relevant reference number must be quoted on all applications. The
successful candidate will have to sign an annual performance agreement and
will be required to undergo a security clearance. Applications must be
submitted on a signed Z83 accompanied by a comprehensive CV only
specifying all experience indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well as
indicating three reference persons with the following information: name and
contact number(s), email address and an indication of the capacity in which the
reference is known to the candidate. Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates only.
Applicants will be required to meet vetting requirements as prescribed by
Minimum Information Security Standards. The DPME is an equal opportunity
affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
Failure to submit the above information will result in the application not being
considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Reference
checks will be done during the selection process. Note that correspondence
will only be conducted with the short-listed candidates. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Shortlisted candidates
must be available for interviews at a date and time determined by DPME.
Applicants must note that pre-employment checks will be conducted once they
are short-listed and the appointment is also subject to positive outcomes on
these checks, which include security clearance, security vetting, qualification
verification and criminal records. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
For salary levels 11 to 15, the inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three
(3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. The DPME reserves the right to utilise practical exercises/tests for
non-SMS positions during the recruitment process (candidates who are
shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of
candidates for the post(s). The DPME also reserves the right to cancel the
filling / not to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the
recruitment process. Prior to appointment, a candidate would be required to
complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior
Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online course,
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Candidates are required to use the new Z83 (Application for employment) that
is implemented with effect from 1 January 2021. A copy can be downloaded on
the website of the Department of Public Service & Administration (DPSA) at
www.dpsa.gov.za
68
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/64 : SENIOR SPECIALIST: PLANNING ALIGNMENT REF NO: 10/ 2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within the relevant framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 7 qualification in any of the following: Social Science /
Economics Development Studies / Public Administration / Management. 8
years’ experience in strategic planning / public sector institutional planning /
public sector operating planning / public sector development planning / public
sector monitoring & evaluation of which 5 years’ experience should be at
middle/senior managerial level. An NQF level 8 qualification, or higher, will be
an added advantage. A valid drivers-license. A good understanding of political,
government planning and governance issues. Good understanding of
government across the three spheres and partners for development.
Knowledge of government prescripts (including National Treasury regulations),
policies, administrative processes, practices, and programmes. Knowledge of
the National Development Plan (NDP) and the Medium-Term Development
Plan and their implementation processes. Ability to foster and manage effective
working arrangements with other centre of government departments and
social/development partners to ensure co-ordinated and integrated actions.
Willingness to travel on a regular basis. Competencies & Skills: Management
skills including people management and empowerment, and experience in
managing multi-disciplinary teams. Ability to provide strategic direction and
leadership. The ability/experience to create an environment for high
performance culture and staff development. Ability to manage multiple projects.
Excellent interpersonal & communication skills (written & verbal). Highly
developed negotiation and conflict management skills. Strategic and analytical
skills. Research and policy analysis skills. Financial management and
project/programme management skills. Good computer literacy skills. Personal
Attributes: The incumbent must be assertive and self-driven, innovative and
creative, client orientated and customer focused, solution orientated and able
to work under stressful situations.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible to oversee, coordinate, assess and align
institutional plans (Strategic Plans, Annual Performance Plans, Operational
Plans & Implementation Plans) with government frameworks and priorities for
national departments and Schedule 3A public entities. Ensure effective
quarterly performance reporting processes for non-financial performance
information of national departments and Schedule 3A public entities. Develop,
coordinate and facilitate oversight frameworks, strategies and processes with
reference to. institutional planning for national departments and Schedule 3A
public entities. Manage, coordinate and facilitate stakeholder engagements on
national planning processes and frameworks and reporting for national
departments and Schedule 3A public entities. Professional management and
leadership in respect of the provision of the core functions and services
assigned to the Directorate and support cross-functional work within the
department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Lehong Tel No: (012) 312- 0540
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitment31@dpme.gov.za
POST 27/65 DIRECTOR: FSD IMPLEMENTATION REF NO: 11 /2026
Chief Directorate: Frontline Monitoring & Support
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within the relevant framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF Level 7 qualification in Social Sciences, Public Administration,
Development Studies or related fields. Minimum of at least 8 years appropriate
experience in public sector monitoring and management of which 5 years’
experience should be at middle/senior managerial level. A relevant post-
graduate qualification (NQF 8) will be an added advantage. A valid Driver’s
License. Competencies / Skills: strong research, communication, report writing
69
skills and project and leadership skills. The candidate must also demonstrate
advanced capabilities in respect to the development, implementation and
monitoring of related policies and procedures; analytical skills, excellent
financial, HR and strategic management skills and good interpersonal
relations. A sound knowledge of Microsoft Office applications is essential.
Personal attributes: The incumbent must be assertive and self-driven,
innovative and creative, client orientated and customer focused, solution
orientated and able to work under stressful situations and the ability to maintain
high levels of confidentiality. The candidate must be willing to travel.
DUTIES : The successful incumbent will be responsible to Facilitate service delivery
improvements through frontline monitoring and provide support on monitoring
initiatives by the Executives. To Planning, Review (Annual Plan). Oversight
Monitoring & Support& Knowledge Management. Communicating Results &
Committing to Change. verification & Improvements Facilitation. Management
of Directorate Resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Lehong Tel No: (012) 312-0540
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitment32@dpme.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/66 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: 12/2026
Sub-Dir: Management Accounting
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in finance related field
with at least 5 years’ experience in finance environment of which 3 years should
be at supervisory level. Must have working experience on the Basic Accounting
System (BAS). An NQF level 7 in Finance related field and working experience
on PERSAL will be an added advantage. Knowledge Competencies and skills:
Must have good communication and presentation skills. Good analytical,
problem solving and report writing skills. Must be a team player, flexible and
reliable. Knowledge requirements: Good understanding of the PFMA and
Treasury Regulations. Good knowledge of Modified Cash Standards and basic
understanding of the SCM processes.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for providing financial planning and reporting
for the department in accordance with the prescripts. This entails preparation
of Annual Financial Statements (AFS) and Interim Financial Statements (IFS).
Providing financial planning in accordance with the prescripts and
Management of Expenditure. Provide BAS System Controller. Supervision of
staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Sebuyana Tel No: (012) 312 0462
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitment33@dpme.gov.za
POST 27/67 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SALARIES, TAX AND S&T REF NO: 13/2026
Unit: Salaries Tax and S&T
: (12 months contract) renewable
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus benefits 37% in lieu
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3 year tertiary qualification (NQF level 6) in Finance with a
minimum of 5 years’ experience in Salaries and Tax environment of which 3-
years should be at supervisory level. Should have extensive knowledge and
experience of BAS, Tax and PERSAL and a high level of computer literacy.
Competencies and skills: High level of management skills, planning, report
writing skills, organisational skills, good interpersonal relations and
Communication skills (written & verbal). Must have good understanding of
PFMA, Treasury Regulations and other relevant legislation. Personal
Attributes: Ability to maintain a high level of confidentiality. Be able to work
under constant pressure. Must be a team player, flexible and reliable.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing salaries, tax
management and S&T services to the Department. This entails: Processing
salary claims, payroll, Commissioner and Audit Committee payments.
Conducting Tax reconciliations and submissions. Suspense accounts and
reporting. Development of procedure manuals and review of policies.
Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Sebuyana Tel No (012) 312-0462
70
APPLICATIONS : can also be emailed to Recruitment34@dpme.gov.za
71
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION
It is the intention to promote representivity in the Department through the filling of these posts. The
candidature of applicants from designated groups especially in respect of people with disabilities will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed.
CLOSING DATE : 18 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be downloaded at
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/.’’From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it
will not be considered”, a recent comprehensive CV; contactable referees
(telephone numbers and email addresses must be indicated); Applicants are
not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents
on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents, all non-
SA citizens must attach a copy of proof of permanent residence in South Africa
on or before the day of the interviews). Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to personnel
suitability checks on criminal records, citizenship verification, financial records,
qualification verification and applicants could be required to provide consent
for access to their social media accounts. Correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3)
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/68 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENTS REF NO: DPSA
13/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
Annual progression up to a maximum salary of R1 098 195 per annum is
possible , subjected to satisfactory performance. The all-inclusive remunerative
package consists of basic salary (70% of the total remuneration package), the
State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion that may be structured according to personal
needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate, a minimum qualification at NQF Level 7 in Operations
Management / Management Services / Industrial and Organisational
Psychology / Public Administration / Public Management as recognised by
SAQA. 3 years’ experience in Assistant Director level/first-level management.
5 years’ experience in organisational development/monitoring and
evaluation/strategic planning environments. Knowledge of government
legislative frameworks. knowledge of public service legislative and policy
frameworks (PSAs). knowledge of government programmes such as the
National Development Plan, Outcome 12, and Key Strategic Priorities of
Government; knowledge of public policy development processes; and
knowledge of public policy analysis. Functional Skills: Written and verbal
communication, stakeholder management and coordination, analytical skills,
and programme and project management. Generic Skills: Problem-solving,
decision-making, computer literacy, knowledge management, change
management and interpersonal relations. Technical (Specialisation) Skills:
72
Knowledge of the Public Service Act and Framework, Knowledge of Public
Service Operations Management Framework, Basic research skills and basic
monitoring and evaluation, including data analysis skills. Attributes: Problem-
solving and innovation skills, planning and organising, teamwork, and working
independently operations and analysis and improvement. Adapts and
responds well to change. Manages pressure effectively and copes well with
setbacks; ability to persuade, influence and lead; ability to maintain
confidentiality; and ability to manage time and multiple target dates.
DUTIES : Develop and monitor implementation of policies and prescripts on
Organisational Functionality Assessments, provide technical support to
provincial and national departments on the institutionalization of the
organizational functionality assessment Directive, conduct monitoring and
evaluation of compliance and impact assessment on the Directive on OFA and
provide support in all the Operations, Systems and Processes of the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. K.P. Segale Tel No: (012) 336 1124
APPLICATIONS : quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang Ntsiko.
Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert132026@dpsa.gov.za
POST 27/69 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ICT GOVERNANCE REF NO: DPSA 14/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
Annual progression up to a maximum salary of R1 098 195 per annum is
possible, subjected to satisfactory performance. The all-inclusive remunerative
package consists of basic salary (70% of the total remuneration package), the
State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary) and a flexible portion that may be structured according to personal
needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate, a minimum qualification at NQF Level 7 in Information
Communication Technology (ICT) as recognised by SAQA. Minimum 8 years’
experience in an ICT environment. Knowledge of the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa and knowledge of the government legislation
framework. Knowledge of public service legislative and policy frameworks.
knowledge of government programmes such as the National Development
Plan. Knowledge of the key strategic priorities of government. A sound
understanding of ICT management and operations and an understanding of
governance of ICT. Understanding of business and ICT alignment planning and
its implementation. Understanding of Enterprise Architecture. Understanding of
change control and management and understanding of emerging technologies.
Analysis, development, implementation and monitoring and evaluation of ICT
policies, norms, standards, controls, frameworks and related means and
mechanisms. Problem solving and analysis, planning and organising, team
leadership, financial management, change management, communication and
coordination, stakeholder management and service delivery innovation. Job
knowledge, acceptance of responsibility, quality of work, reliability, initiative,
good interpersonal relations, planning and execution, facilitation, ethical
conduct, adaptability, flexibility, confidentiality, presentation and report writing.
DUTIES : Develop and implement prescripts on ICT Governance. Conduct research for
the development of ICT prescripts. Provide implementation support to
departments. Draft audits or assessments of ICT governance systems
conducted within departments. Provide technical support and advice as
required. Provide capacity building and/or make contributions to the
development of capacity development programmes by the relevant institutions.
Monitor implementation and compliance. Conduct evaluation and impact
studies as required. Provide support in all operations, systems, and processes
of the directorate. Draft information and advice for the MPSA, Cabinet,
Parliament and other internal and external stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Zaid Aboobaker Tel No: (012) 336 1059.
APPLICATIONS : quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang Ntsiko.
Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert142026@dpsa.gov.za
73
POST 27/70 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (MR-6) REF NO: DPSA
15/2026
SALARY : R610 434 – R1 442 451 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination).
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum qualification at NQF Level 7 in law, a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) or a
Bachelor of Procurationis (B Proc) as recognised by SAQA, at least 8 years’ of
appropriate post-qualification legal experience. Good knowledge of the South
African legal system and a good understanding of legislative processes. Ability
to draft legislation, conduct legal research, and work independently. Good
interpersonal, problem-solving, and dispute resolution skills. Computer
Literacy. Sound knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa,
Promotion of Access to Information Act, Promotion of Administrative Justice
Act, Public Service Act, Public Administration Management Act, and Public
Finance Management Act is required. Good communication and writing skills,
willingness to travel is essential. Knowledge of public service legislative and
policy frameworks.
DUTIES : To provide professional legal support and advice to the Department and
Ministry. Drafting and scrutiny of public administration legislation. Provide
guidance to the Department of Public Service and Administration in respect of
legislative processes and participate in policy processes requiring reflection or
entrenchment in legislation. Draft bills where drafting capacity does not exist
elsewhere in the DPSA. Provide written or oral legal opinions on legislative
matters pertaining to existing public administration related to legislative.
Comment on draft legislation relating to the public administration. Provide
oversight in respect of technical quality, adherence to best practice, and
consistency with the constitution and other primary legislation of the DPSA.
Review legislation administered by the Minister for the Public Service and
Administration. Supervise and support the Legal Administration officer.
ENQUIRIES : Adv. Mmasetshaba Matlou Tel No: (012) 336 1638
APPLICATIONS : E-mail your application to Advert152026@dpsa.gov.za
POST 27/71 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPSA
16/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09). Annual progression up to a maximum salary
of R573 897 is possible, subject to satisfactory performance.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate, a minimum qualification at NQF Level 6 in Records
Management / Information Management / Science / Knowledge Management
/ Public Management / Public Administration as recognised by SAQA. Minimum
2 years’ supervisory experience. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in a records
management environment. Knowledge Section 13(5) of the National Archives
and Records Service Act, 1996, as amended; Personal Information Protection
Act (POPIA); Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS); proficiency in
Electronic Records Management Systems (ERMS); knowledge of
environmental practices; and knowledge of relevant statutory and regulatory
frameworks governing records management. Attributes: professionalism,
flexibility, resourcefulness, ability to work under stressful situations and
pressure, trustworthiness, hard work, ability to work independently, teamwork
and self-motivation. Generic skills: interpersonal skills, patience, problem-
solving skills, analytical skills, administrative skills, organisational skills,
meticulousness, planning and time management, influencing, managing
performance, managing people, accuracy and attention to details, capability of
prioritising, ability to maintain the integrity of information and computer
literacy. Management Skills: Management skills, communication skills,
decision-making skills, leadership skills, change management, project
management, people management, policy analysis and development.
Technical skills: Record management principles, contract management and a
driver's licence.
DUTIES : Develop, review, implement and monitor Records Management policies,
guidelines and procedure manuals. Conduct research/benchmark on records
management procedure manual, policies, and guidelines. Conduct awareness
on approved records management policies and filing system. Provide
reproduction, administer and safeguard documents. Supervise the rendering
74
of Messenger services and Mailroom services. Monitor service level
agreements of contracts. Compile quarterly contracts performance
management report. Provide records classification, indexing services, records
keeping systems and disposal programme. Maintain the approved filling
system and records storage systems. Ensuring that all electronic records are
managed according to the requirements of the National Archives and good
governance. Provide support in all the Operational, Systems and Processes of
the Directorate. Address all audit findings by the approved due dates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J.M. Mkhatshwa Tel No: (012) 336 1595.
APPLICATIONS : quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang Ntsiko.
Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert162026@dpsa.gov.za
POST 27/72 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION ETHICS, INTEGRITY
AND CONDUCT MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPSA 17/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09). Annual progression up to a maximum salary
of R573 897 per annum is possible, subject to satisfactory performance.
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum qualification at NQF Level 6 in Public Administration / Public
Management / Law / LLB as recognised by SAQA and Ethics Officer
Certification. A minimum of 5 years’ experience in the field of ethics
management / monitoring / compliance environments. Government legislative
framework, public service legislative and policy framework, government
programs such as the National Development Plan, and key strategic priorities
of government. Attributes: honesty, ethics, sensitivity, professionalism,
reliability, loyalty, confidentiality, and diligence. Open to new ideas, innovative,
able to make sound judgements based on legal grounding and able to
communicate advice with authority. Ability to communicate effectively on highly
sensitive issues with employees and managers at all levels, with particular
emphasis on developing trust and demonstrating fairness. Interpersonal
relations skills, team player Generic skills: Client orientation and customer
focus, problem-solving, decision-making, written and verbal communication
and information management, interpersonal facilitation, negotiation,
presentation, report writing, computer literacy (at least Microsoft Word,
PowerPoint and Excel), and project management. Technical skills: data
analytics, organisational skills, policy analysis and development, and research
skills.
DUTIES : Support the development of ethics, integrity & conduct management prescripts.
Conduct research to support the drafting of Public Administration Ethics,
Integrity & Conduct Management prescripts (policies, norms and standards,
directives, circulars, frameworks, and guidelines). Draft of Public
Administration Ethics, Integrity & Conduct Management prescripts (policies,
norms and standards, directives, circulars, frameworks, and guidelines).
Conduct pilots as part of the development of the prescripts, if required.
Submit/communicate approved prescripts to departments for implementation.
Provide implementation support to the departments. Requests for approval of
requests and responses to inquiries are processed to the relevant approval
authority within the unit and DPSA. Provide technical support and advise as
required. Provide capacity building and make/contribute to the development of
capacity development programs by the relevant institutions. Design advocacy
programs to promote ethics in public administration. Monitor compliance with
ethics, integrity & conduct management prescripts. Draft and maintain systems
(e.g., collection and analysis of data) to monitor compliance. Assist in
conducting evaluation and impact studies by implementing the approved
instrument. Provide support in all the operations, systems, and processes of
the directorate. Support systems for the effective and efficient functioning of
the Directorate. Complete and submit inputs in the directorate budget by the
stipulated due dates. Contribute to the effective and efficient management of
the budget. Make inputs to audit findings by the approved due dates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S.A. Matshego Tel No: (012) 336 1541
APPLICATIONS : quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang Ntsiko.
Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
75
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert172026@dpsa.gov.za
POST 27/73 : CUSTOMER CARE AGENT REF NO: DPSA 18/2026
SALARY : R280 278 per annum (Level 06). Annual progression up to a maximum salary
of R330 162 per annum is possible, subject to satisfactory performance.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate, a minimum qualification at NQF Level 4 in Customer Care
/ Marketing / Communications / Human Resource Management as recognised
by SAQA. Knowledge of Government Employees Housing Scheme and its
product offering, knowledge of public service administration, knowledge of
Batho Pele Principle, knowledge of Conditions of Service, knowledge of the
Public Service Act and knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Generic skills:
Written and verbal communication skills, facilitation skills, presentation skills,
planning and organising skills, computer skills, customer orientation, conflict
management, Interpersonal relationship skills, report writing skills, problem
solving, and solution Orientated and Innovative. Attributes: Good telephone
etiquette, resourceful, resilient and flexible, professional, confident, passionate
and a team worker. Technical skills: Customer care and marketing skills.
DUTIES : Provide capacity building and support to government departments and
employees on GEHS services and products. Respond to customer queries,
complaints and disputes on GEHS products and services. Provide guidance
and assistance to government departments and employees to resolve queries,
complaints and disputes relating to housing allowance benefits. Assist
government employees with the process of enrolling with the GEHS. Resolve
incoming calls and emails from government employees and refer relevant
queries to relevant officials. Provide capacity building to government
departments through the GEHS education and outreach sessions. Develop
project plans for the GEHS educational and outreach sessions. Provide
support in content development on the GEHS branding and marketing
materials and the update of the website.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. I.M. Selepe Tel No: (012) 336 1323
APPLICATIONS : quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang Ntsiko.
Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert182026@dpsa.gov.za
POST 27/74 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
SERVIRCE DELIVERY IMPROVEMENT REF NO: DPSA 19/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05). Annual progression up to a maximum salary
of R279 708 per annum is possible, subject to satisfactory performance.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate or a minimum qualification at NQF Level 4 as recognised
by SAQA. No previous experience required. Knowledge of clerical duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture and collect statistics, Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service and
knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working environment. Generic
Skills: Computer skills, interpersonal relations, Flexibility and Teamwork.
Technical (Specialisation) Skills: Planning and organisation, language and
good verbal and written communication skills. Attributes: Analytical, Initiative,
Openness and transparent.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Handle routine enquiries, type letters, and
draft minutes and/or other correspondence for the Directorate. Provide a
supply chain. Clerical support services within the component. Update and
maintain the asset register of the component. Stock control of office stationery.
Maintain the leave register for the component. Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component and provide
financial administration support services within the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M.B. Leshabane Tel No: (012) 336 1372
APPLICATIONS : quoting the reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang Ntsiko.
Applications must be posted to the Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001, or delivered to 546 Edmond
76
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr. Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083, or emailed. E-mail your application to Advert192026@dpsa.gov.za
77
ANNEXURE O
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
The intention is to promote representatively in the Public Service through the filling of these posts and
with persons whose appointment will promote representatively, will receive preference. An indication by
candidates in this regard will facilitate the processing of applications. If no suitable candidates from the
unrepresented groups can be recruited, candidates from the represented groups will be considered.
People with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Kimberly Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X5002, Kimberley, 8301 or Hand Deliver at 21-23
Market Square Old Magistrate Building, Kimberley, 8301. For Attention: Ms V
Tidikwe.
Bloemfontein Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager:
Department of Public Works, P/Bag X20605, Bloemfontein, 9300 or Hand
delivered 18 President Brand Street, Bloemfontein, 9300. For Attention: Mr T
Mosia or Mr. T Mofokeng.
Nelspruit Regional Office Applications: The Regional Manager, Department
of Public Works, Private Bag X11280, Nelspruit, 1200 or 30 Brown Street,
Nedbank Building 9th Floor, Nelspruit, 1200. For Attention: Ms. S Mcoseli.
CLOSING DATE : 21 August 2026 at 16H00
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed Z83 application form
(obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA website link:
https:/www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/, which must be signed, initialled and
dated by the applicant, and must be accompanied by a detailed curriculum
vitae (CV) only. Candidates are not required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and related documents on application. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification and other
related documents on or before the date of interview, which should not be older
than six months. Should an application be submitted using incorrect/old Z83
application form, such an application will be disqualified. Further take note of
the following on completion of Z83 application form: PART A and PART B must
be fully completed. PART C - PART G: Noting that there is a limited space
provided applicants may refer to CV or indicate. This will be acceptable as long
as the CV has been attached and provides the required information. Page 1 of
the Z83 application form must be initialled and page 2 signed and dated by the
applicant. Failure to comply with the above instructions may result in an
application being disqualified. Applicants applying for more than one advertised
post must submit separate Z83 application forms and CVs in respect to each
post being applied for. Should an application be received where an applicant
has applied for more than one posts on the same Z83 application form, the
applicant will be considered for the first post indicated on the Z83 application
form only. Applications will be received via post/courier services, hand
deliveries or email. Late applications will not be considered. Regulation 57 (c)
and 67 (9) of the Public Service Regulations 2016, as amended, requires the
executive authority to ensure that he or she is fully satisfied of the claims being
made and the finalisation of Personnel Suitability Checks in order to verify
claims and check the candidate for purpose of being fit and proper for
employment, respectively. Shortlisted candidates must be willing to undergo
normal vetting and verification processes. Note: It is the responsibility of all
applicants to ensure that foreign qualifications are evaluated by SAQA. Due to
large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. Should you not have heard from us within three months from the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Entry level requirements
for SMS posts: in terms of the Directive on Human Resource Management and
Development on Public Service Professionalisation Volume 1 a requirement for
appointment into SMS posts is the successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry programme as endorsed by the National School of
Governance (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be obtained by following
the below link: https: www.thensg.gov.za/training –course /SMS-pre-entry
programme/.All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
78
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Note: For
emailed applications, please submit a Single PDF document or One
Attachment per application to the email address designated on the specific
position. Kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments should not
exceed 15MB. It remains the candidate’s responsibility to ensure that their
application is successfully submitted using the required single pdf document.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/75 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: LEGAL AND CONTRACTS
ADMINISTRATION (MR 6) REF NO: 2026/301
(Re-advertisement for PSVC 25 of 2026, Ref No: 2026/287-applicants who
previously applied are encouraged to re-apply)
SALARY : R610 434 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Kimberely Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of four-year degree (LLB) with at least 8 years appropriate post-
qualification legal experience or 8 years’ experience as an in-house legal
advisor or legal/contract administrator, Willingness to travel on an ad hoc basis
and adapt to a work schedule in accordance with professional requirements, A
valid driver’s licence. Admission as attorney or Advocate of the high court and
supervisory/management experience will be an added advantage. Knowledge:
Specialized knowledge of law of contracts, general administration of contracts
and litigation within an organizational context, Legal research and professional
legal assistance, In-depth knowledge of the Framework for Supply Chain
Management [Regulations in terms of the Public Finance Management Act,
1999 (Act No. 1 of 1999) (PFMA)], Code of Conduct for Supply Chain
Management Practitioners, the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, the Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act, 2000 (Act No. 5 of 2000), the State
Information Technology Agency Act, 1998 (Act No. 88 of 1998), the Public
Service Act, 1994 (Act No. 103 of 1994), Public Service Regulations and other
relevant legislation. Skills: Thorough and proven legal drafting, communication
and presentation skills, Sound analytical and problem identification and
solving, Language proficiency, Maintenance of confidentiality of information,
Computer literacy, Relationship management, Decision-making skills,
Interpersonal and diplomacy, Motivational, Negotiation, Mediation and
Arbitration skills.
DUTIES : Management of the provision of general legal advisory support services to the
department and Ministry. Management of all litigious matters for and against
the Department and Ministry. Management of the legal advisory services on
the drafting, vetting and amendment of contracts. Oversee the exploration of
efficiency measures introduced. Provide general legal opinions to line function.
Liaise with the office of the state attorney and consult, provide instructions,
facilitate the compilation of documents in litigation cases. Consult with line
function and take instructions. Management of litigation and debt files. Attend
to PAIA and PAJA requests from line function.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Rakau Tel No: (012) 406 1512
APPLICATIONS : For Kimberley Regional Office: Email to: RecruitKIM26-23@dpw.gov.za
POST 27/76 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: IMMOVABLE ASSET REGISTER REF NO:
2026/302
(Re-advertisement for PSVC 24 of 2026, Ref No: 2026/271-applicants who
previously applied are encouraged to re-apply)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Bloemfontein Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Commerce / Real Estate / Project Management / Business
Administration / Asset Management / Built Environment or equivalent
qualification. Appropriate relevant years of experience in Property
Management /Immovable Asset Register Management. Experience in State
land administration and verification of immovable assets (land and buildings)
or related. Effective communication skills. Good report writing skills. Computer
literacy. Negotiation Skills. Decision Making Skills. Excellent Interpersonal
79
skills. Ability to work under pressure, high level of reliability and deadline driven.
A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Conduct and administer physical verification of immovable assets in line with
IAR verification support tools and GIAMA. Identify and record improvements to
state property in IAR. Participate in the vesting of land parcels and
endorsements of Title Deeds. Provide admin support for Immovable Asset
Register projects. Ensure the safekeeping of all project documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Segone Tel No: (051) 408 7341
APPLICATIONS : For Bloemfontein Regional Office: Email to: RecruitBLOEM26-29@dpw.gov.za
POST 27/77 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: UTILIZATION AND CONTRACT
ADMINISTRATION REF NO: 2026/303
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Nelspruit Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of three-year tertiary qualification (NQF Level 06) / National
Diploma in Real Estate Management / Property Law / Law Degree or related
qualification. Appropriate relevant years of experience in the field. A driver’s
license. Knowledge and application of Public Finance Management Act,
Property economics, Property Law, Treasury Regulations, the Prevention of
Illegal Eviction Act and Government Immovable Asset Management Act. Skills:
Good interpersonal skills. Communication skills, analytical thinking, organizing
and planning skills. Client orientated, ability to work under stressful conditions.
DUTIES : Provide administration support to achieve an optimal utilization of State
properties. Administer cost determinations and verifications. Liaise with clients
to determine their property related requirements or specifications and reserve
properties according to client requirements. Provide administrative support on
property related contracts and agreements. Facilitate the implementation of the
conditions of lease agreements, particularly with regards to contract
milestones. Track payments and deadlines and arrange recoveries based on
instructions received from legal services or state attorneys. Investigate the
utilization of state properties. Undertake site visits and conditions surveys to
determine utilization potentials. Process the registration of servitudes over
state owned land. Prepare and disseminate information to appropriate
employees regarding contract status. Facilitate contractor meetings and
prepare all documentation to resolve dispute.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E.K Nguyuza Tel No: (013) 753 6319
APPLICATIONS : For Nelspruit Regional Office: Email to: RecruitNEL26-17@dpw.gov.za
80
ANNEXURE P
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Department of Transport is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment
equity targets. Preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in
achieving its Employment Equity targets at these specific levels in terms of the Department’s
Employment Equity Plan, therefore White male / female, Coloured male/ female, Indian male / female and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Transport, Private Bag X193, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at
the 159 Forum Building, Cnr Struben and Bosman Street, Pretoria or email to:
Recruitment@dot.gov.za or at e-recruitment system: erecruit.transport.gov.za.
Note: email applications must be sent as one attachment to avoid non-delivery
of the email and only quotes the name of the post you are applying for on the
Subject Line as directed on the post note.
FOR ATTENTION : Recruitment Unit, Room 4034
CLOSING DATE : 21 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a completed new Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department, (or obtainable at). Applicants must fill in
full new Z83 form part A, B, C, and D. A recent updated comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
dates). Applicants will submit certified copies of all qualifications and ID
document on the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other
must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall
score both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview
process; the logistics will be communicated to candidates prior to the
interviews. Recommended candidates will also be required to attend a
Psychometric Assessments as part of the recruitment process. Recommended
candidates will also be required to generic managerial competency
assessment after the interviews also take a note that National School of
Governance (NGS) has introduce compulsory SMS pre-entry certificate with
effect from 01 April 2020 as Minimum Entry Requirements for Senior
Management Services (submitted prior to appointment) and can be accessed
through the following link: http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entry-programme/. The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. The successful candidate must disclose to the Director-
General particulars of all registrable financial interests, sign a performance
agreement and employment contract with the Director-General within three
months from the date of assumption of duty. The successful candidate must be
willing to sign an oath of secrecy with the Department. Applicants will be
expected to be available for selection interviews and assessments at a time,
date and place as determined by the Department. An offer letter will only be
issued to the successful candidate once the following has been verified
educational qualifications, previous experience, citizenship, reference checks
and security vetting. Please note: Correspondence will only be entered into
with short-listed candidates.
OTHER POST
POST 27/78 : GRAPHIC DESIGNER ASSISTANT REF NO: DOT/HRM/2026/31
Branch: Corporate Services
Chief Directorate: Communication
Directorate: Internal Communication
Sub-Directorate: Online Media Services
SALARY : R280 278 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 6 in Graphic Design / Fine Arts / Multimedia Production
/ Information Technology / Communication with no experience. Knowledge and
skills: Knowledge of, knowledge and understanding of Multi-media and
Computer graphics Packages, knowledge and understanding of Corel Draw
and Adobe Photoshop, knowledge of topography and printing, Proficient in the
use of an apple Machintosh computer InDesign (web 3-D skills), strong design
81
skills, Knowledge of Desktop Publishing, Communication skills and
presentation skills, Computer literacy and Typing Skills, Project Management,
Research and editing skills, Creative, problem solving skills, and strong
analytical skills, and Good organization.
DUTIES : Design broches and publications, Design corporate gift packages and covers
to enhance the corporate image of the Department, Create layouts for the
Departmental calendars, Create graphs and charts for publications, Keep web
content images for the Department’s website up to date, Assist with the
development of material. Design graphics images, and visual elements for
website, interactive media, and multi projects, Design graphics, images and
images, and animations in a variety of formats, Provide final artwork for
production of all briefed-in material, Design layouts accordingly to specific
needs of the branches, Prepare sketches by hand or with the aid of a computer,
Assist with Photography according to the Departmental needs i.e
indoors/outdoors, Design graphics, images and virtual elements for social
media pages, Ensure colours and art work are available and Maintain
equipment as required (computer, software, digital and electronic aids).
ENQUIRIES : Mr Richard Maboho Tel No: (012) 309 3401
82
ANNEXURE Q
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 18 August 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It should be noted that the
National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship checks will be conducted
on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable, additional checks will be
conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive effective 01 April 2024. Please
note that by responding to our advertisement/s, you consent to the collection,
processing, and storing of your Personal Information for internal HR processes
in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), Act No.
4 of 2013. In the event that your application is unsuccessful, the Department
will retain your personal information only for audit purposes as required by
policies, only for a specific period, of which the submitted documents will then
be destroyed as legislated in the National Archives Act. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level
certificates) evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at
your own expense. Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required
to disclose particulars of all registrable financial interests and to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za. Kindly note that all
National Treasury adverts published/LIVE on the eRecruitment System have a
83
closing date listed and closing time of 12h00 (Midday) on that closing date. The
system is designed to automatically remove the advert from public view at
exactly 12h00 (Midday) of the said closing date for that post. There are no other
means to submit applications post the closing date and time, if you have missed
or delayed in submitting on time.
OTHER POST
POST 27/79 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PLANNING AND REPORTING REF NO:
S089/2026
Purpose: Contribute to developing and implementing the department’s
performance planning and reporting ecosystem, including strategic, annual,
and operational plans in compliance with the regulatory framework.
Division: Office of The Director-General (O-DG)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Public
Administration or Business Administration or Public Management or Business
Management or related qualification. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
strategic monitoring and planning businesses in alignment with operation
requirements. Knowledge and experience of the consolidation of Departmental
Performance and Strategic Plans. Knowledge and experience of the
Governments Policy Framework. Knowledge of strategic management and
policy analysis. Ability to evaluate and analyse information for policy
development and application of policies.
DUTIES : Departmental Strategic and Annual Performance Plans: Assist with the
development, implementation and maintenance of the Departmental Annual
Performance Plan and divisional operational plans. Assist with analysing and
assessing strategic and annual performance plans for the correct alignment
thereof. Assist in the development and implementation of performance
indicators and measurements for the Department. Assist in the compilation of
a comprehensive feedback report outlining discrepancies that must be
addressed and integrated in future Strategic and Annual Performance Plans.
Planning and Reporting: Provide inputs to systems and tools for the utilisation
in the planning and reporting of the Department’s performance and operations
management framework. Assist with planning and evaluation of the reporting
framework and reports on the Department’s performance in compliance with
the relevant regulatory requirements. Assist with coordinating the
Departmental planning and reporting mechanism for strategic and operational
programmes. Assist with monitoring progress against strategic and annual
performance plans of business units and performance assessment action
plans. Policy Development, Research and Benchmarking: Obtain inputs in the
development and implementation of best practices planning, monitoring and
reporting systems and mechanisms. Obtain inputs in the development,
implementation and review of a governance framework for quality assurance,
oversight and performance standards. Assist with monitoring the
implementation of performance guidelines and frameworks and advice
stakeholders accordingly. Assist with coordinating the implementation of
annual outcomes and impact reporting. Stakeholder Engagement: Engage
internal and external stakeholders on the implementation plans pertaining to
planning, monitor evaluation and reporting. Engage with stakeholders in the
coordination and progress of the implementation of developmental and
process enhancements. Engage with strategic partners in the support of
implementation processes pertaining to monitoring, evaluation and reporting
outcomes. Contribute to the governance of the Departmental Strategic, Annual
Performance and Operational Plans, for a streamlined process.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
84
ANNEXURE R
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za Other related documentation such as copies of
qualifications, identity documents, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates for
SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following
the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates
will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities,
behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. A pre-entry
certificate obtained from the National School of government is required prior to
the appointment. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Candidates
will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and undergo security
clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must provide a police
clearance certificate from country of origin (only when shortlisted). The
Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling
of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
hear from us within three (3) months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications will not be
considered. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Targets.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/80 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SANITATION REF NO: 170826/01
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: NW
CD: Provincial Operations: North West
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Environmental Health/ Community
Development Studies. Three (3) years’ experience in sanitation environment.
The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s licence. Knowledge of Public
Service Act. Knowledge of sanitation policies and strategies. Problem solving
and analysis. Excellent communication skills both (verbal and written).
Accountability and ethical conduct. Computer literacy. Good interpersonal
skills.
DUTIES : Assist in the development of policies and strategies for sanitation programmes.
Assist in the planning, implementation and monitoring of sanitation
programmes, projects and regulatory framework / prescripts. Participate in the
assessment of Water and Sanitation Development Plans (WSDPs). Investigate
sanitation complaints and attend to Ministerial referrals. Participate in advocacy
programmes for sanitation. Staff supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RT Kolokoto, Tel No: (018) 387 9568/ (018) 387 9500
85
POST 27/81 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO: 170826/02
Branch: Corporate Support Services
CD: Auxiliary Services
Dir: Knowledge Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Records Management/ Information Management/
Information Science/ Knowledge Management at NQF level 6 qualification.
Five (5) years’ functional experience in Archive and Records Management or
Information Services/Management at a supervisory level. Knowledge of policy
development and implementation, National Archives Regulations and National
Archive and Records Services Act of South Africa (NARSASA). Knowledge of
analytical procedures. Understanding of government legislations. Knowledge
of financial management and Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Knowledge of techniques and procedures for the planning and execution of
operations. Knowledge of programme and record management systems.
Problem solving and analysis. Relationship, people and diversity management.
Client orientation and customer focus. Good communication skills both (verbal
and written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Facilitate implementation of records management policies and procedures.
Monitor and evaluate records management practices for compliance. Facilitate
compliance inspections of Registries. Develop, implement and maintain the
departmental filling system. Administer and maintain file plan. Support all
satellite offices on Records Management matters. Management of human
resources and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MC Mokhele Tel No: (012) 336 8284
POST 27/82 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: 170826/03
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gqeberha
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. Three (3) to (5) five years’ relevant
in Supply Chain Management experience required. Basic knowledge of supply
chain duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer
and collate administrative statistics. Knowledge and understanding of Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework (PPPFA) and all applicable SCM guidelines,
policies, practices, and procedures. Knowledge of financial operating systems
(SAP, CSD etc). Knowledge and insight of Human Resources prescripts.
Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working environments.
Knowledge and understanding of the framework governing the Public Service.
Interpersonal relations. Good Communication skills both (verbal and written).
Accountability and ethical conduct. Framework for managing performance
information. Knowledge of implementing policies of PMDS. Problem solving
and Analysis. People and Diversity Management. Client Orientation,
Communication, Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Coordinate, review, research, analyses and plan the procurement needs of the
Cluster. Coordinate, review, collect information and implement the demand
management plan for the Cluster. Receive requests for goods and services
from end user and verify for compliance. Shortlist suitable suppliers from
Central Supplier Database. Invite and receive quotations from suppliers.
Ensure compliance with SCM policies, processes, and procedures. Render
demand and acquisition clerical support. Provide secretariat functions to bid
committee Check purchase requisitions and purchase order for correctness,
completeness and sign the requisition and order documents. Approve
purchase requisitions and purchase orders on SAP system. Create contracts
and ensure contract performance is adhered to. Administer, maintain, and
update contract register to ensure transparency and record keeping.
Implement controls to ensure that purchase orders are placed for items on
approved contracts and non-contract requisitions. Update and ensure the
maintenance of vendors on system. Render logistical support service: Receive
and verify goods delivered from suppliers prior to performing goods receipts
(Goods Receipt Voucher) on SAP system and maintain goods receipts register.
86
Issue goods to the end-users (direct and stock purchase) Identify redundant
and obsolete stock. Control stock levels and conduct stock taking. Assess SCM
audit and compliance readiness. Supervise human resources/staff. Render
asset management clerical support: Process payments on SAP. Provide
training to the internal clients regarding updates on SCM processes and
procedures. Attend to SCM related enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Tyobashe Ncumisa Tel No: (041) 508 9747
POST 27/83 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: 170826/04
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior / Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. Three (3) to (5) five years’
experience in Supply Chain Management is required. Basic knowledge of
supply chain duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate
computer and collate administrative statistics. Knowledge and insight of
Human Resources prescripts. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of
the working environments. Knowledge of financial operating systems (SAP,
CSD etc). Knowledge and understanding of the framework governing the
Public Service. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility and teamwork. Basic
knowledge of Problem solving and analysis. People and diversity
management. Client orientation and customer focus. Good Communication
skills both (verbal and written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Supervise human resource/staff. Render asset management clerical support:
Administer the procurement of goods and services. Ensure compliance with
SCM policies, processes, and procedures. Provide training to the internal
clients regarding updates on SCM processes and procedures. Attend to SCM
related enquiries. Render demand and acquisition clerical support: Check
purchase requisitions and orders for correctness, completeness and sign the
requisition and order documents. Release purchase requisitions and orders on
SAP system. Administer, maintain, and update contract register to ensure
transparency and record keeping. Compile audit reports. Implement controls
to ensure that purchase orders are placed for items on approved contracts and
non-contract requisitions. Render logistical support service: Receive and verify
goods delivered from suppliers prior to performing goods receipts (Goods
Receipt Voucher) on SAP system and maintain goods receipts register. Issue
goods to the end-users (direct and stock purchase) Identify redundant and
obsolete stock. Control stock levels and conduct stock taking. Assess SCM
audit and compliance readiness. Process payments on SAP.
ENQUIRIES : N Gqiba Tel No: (021) 941 6125
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area.
POST 27/84 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: 170826/05
Branch: Infrastructure Management Southern Operations
Dir Southern Operations
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Uitkeer
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. Three (3) to (5) five years’ relevant
experience. Knowledge of clerical functions, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collate administrative statistics.
Knowledge and insight of Human Resources prescripts. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environments. Knowledge of financial
operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS, etc). Knowledge and
understanding of the framework governing the Public Service. Interpersonal
relations, flexibility and teamwork. Basic knowledge of problem solving and
analysis. People and diversity management. Client orientation and customer
focus. Good communication skills both (verbal and written). Accountability and
ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Supervise and render general clerical support services e.g. Record, organise,
store, capture and retrieve correspondence and data. Handle routine enquiries.
Keep and maintain the filing system. Type basic letters and/or other
correspondence when required. Supervise and provide supply chain clerical
support services e.g. Laise with internal and external stakeholders in relation
to procurement of goods and services. Stock control of office stationery. Keep
87
and maintain the asset register. Arrange travelling and accommodation.
Supervise and provide personnel administration clerical support e.g. Keep and
maintain the attendance register, personnel records and leave register.
Supervise and provide financial administration support e.g. Capture and
update expenditure. Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims and
submit to manager for approval. Handle telephone accounts and petty cash.
Supervise human resources / staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work.
Personnel development. Assess staff performance. Apply discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S.F. Cannon Tel No: (042) 243 6150
NOTE : Preference will be given to applicants from the geographical area.
POST 27/85 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK PRODUCTION REF NO: 170826/06 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Southern Operations
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification. Basic knowledge of
supply chain duties, practices as well as ability to capture data, operate
computer and collect statistics. Basic knowledge of work procedures in terms
of the working environments. Flexibility and teamwork. Basic knowledge of
problem solving and Analysis. People and diversity management. Client
orientation and customer focus. Good Communication skills both (verbal and
written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Coordination of demand plans. Ensure that all procurement is in line with
demand plans. Perform quarterly reviews to ensure procurement purchases
are in line with demand. Conduct sourcing of quotations. Conduct inventory
checks, administer goods receipts and goods issue. Ensure that all
procurement is in line with prescribed legislation and regulations. Assist with
procurement of price quotations, tenders, evaluation and adjudication.
Effective management of controls and registers. Capturing of requisitions,
orders, goods receipting and payments. Manage filing of Supply Chain
Management documentation. Maintain registers for orders, payments and
requisitions. Handle queries from suppliers and capture new suppliers onto the
database. Maintain and administer stores. Recording, faxing, copying and filing
of documentation. Render asset management clerical support. Render
demand and acquisition clerical support. Render logistical support services.
Assist with the compilation and maintenance of records according to Supply
Chain Management (SCM) prescripts, e.g. procurement batches, goods
received, asset verification, stocktaking and bar – cording of assets, courier
services etc. Compile and maintain records e.g. asset records/database.
Check and issue furniture, equipment and accessories to components and
individuals. Identify redundant, non-serviceable and obsolete equipment for
disposal. Verify asset register. Request and receive quotations. Place orders.
Issue and receive bid documents. Provide secretariat or logistical support
during the bid consideration and contracts conclusion processes. Compile draft
documents as required. Receive requests for goods and services from end
users. Place orders for goods and services. Receive and verify goods from
suppliers. Capture goods and services receipt vouchers. Issue goods to end
users. Process payments on SAP.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs N Gqiba Tel No: (021) 941 6125
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area.
POST 27/86 : MAINTENANCE VEHICLE OPERATOR REF NO: 170826/07
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Breede/Qouritz (Worcester – Western Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 4. The disclosure of a valid Code EC /EC1 (or equivalent)
unexpired driver’s license with valid PDP. Certified competency /operating
certificate or relevant heavy plant/ machinery. At least five (5) years’ experience
in driving heavy motor vehicles and operating heavy equipment. Traffic and
road safety regulations. Mechanical knowledge of heavy vehicles and
machinery. Occupational Health Safety (OHS). Basic knowledge of
departmental transport policies and procedures. Basic record keeping and
reporting procedures. Good Communication skills both (verbal and written).
88
Attention to details and alertness. Problem solving in operational
environments. Ability to work under pressure and in adverse weather/site
conditions. Integrity and discretion.
DUTIES : Responsible for conducting quality assurance of driver/operator systems.
Operate specialized plant/ equipment. Implement best practice of
driver/operator systems. Responsible for daily roadworthy inspections.
Responsible for ensuring that vehicles are serviced on time. Analyze logistics
operations. Transportation of work teams and materials/ equipment. Collection
of goods at suppliers and department stores. Maintenance of registering
department and pickups. Function in accordance with applicable legislative
requirements. Detect and repair minor mechanical problems on the vehicles/
equipment and take steps to have it repaired. Report major defects for repairs.
Routine maintenance of equipment. Conduct routine inspection of visible
defects around the exterior of the equipment and vehicles. Attend to special
requests. Recording of daily trips, fuel and fluids levels and logbooks for both
vehicles and equipment. Periodic checks on vehicles maintenance standards.
Ensure that the place is clean, where equipment is kept avoiding fire hazards.
Adherence to Safety and procedures: ensure the safekeeping of equipment
and vehicles. Assist with maintenance work at gauging stations. Assist with
refurbishment and construction work at gauging stations. Assist civil teams with
civil maintenance and construction work of Government Water schemes
infrastructure. Use of handheld tools and power tools during construction work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NG Mthenjana Tel No: (021) 941 6151
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area.
89
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: EASTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS & INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted as follows: via the provincial e-recruitment
system accessible at: https://ecprov.gov.za and/or at
https://erecruitment.ecotp.gov.za. The Provincial e-Recruitment System is
available 24/7 and closes at 23: 59 on the Closing Date. To report any e-
Recruitment System challenges send an email with your (i) ID Number, (ii)
profile email address, (iii) details of your issue to: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za. Do not send any applications to this email address;
should you do so, your applications/ CV will be regarded as lost and will not be
considered. Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-16:30 Mon-
Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Friday). Hand-delivered/ E-Mailed/ Faxed/
Posted applications will not be accepted.
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026. No late applications will be accepted.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed New Z83 form (effective
from 01 January 2021), e-Recruitment System automatically generates Z83
immediately you press apply and generate Z83. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents upon application
but must submit a fully completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB:
Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not signable; so, applicants who
submitted applications via the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for
an unsigned Z83 instead will be requested to sign on/or before the interview
day. View the list of the positions you applied for on “My Job Applications” and
do note that the system Z83 does not reflect work experience and
qualifications, however, every detail of your information does reflect to the
Recruitment team. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents (like a copy of
Permanent Resident Permit for Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
Holders to HR on or before the interview date. Failure to submit all the required
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/ study verification and previous
employment verification). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
The Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic Managerial
Competency Assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of Competency-based Assessment. Successful candidates will
also be subjected to security clearance processes. Where applicable,
candidates will be subjected to a skills/ knowledge test. The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Successful candidates
will be appointed on a probation period of twelve 12/24 months. It is the
objective to address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line
with the Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation
across race and gender. The EE targets of the recruiting Department will be
adhered to although the applications are welcome from all racial groups. The
Recruiting Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw the
advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with Disabilities are also requested to apply and
indicate such in their applications). Misrepresentation in the application
documents will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the
event the candidate has already been appointed. SMS pre-entry certificate
(Nyukela) must be submitted prior appointment. All shortlisted candidates for
SMS posts will be subjected to technical exercises and interviews. Following
the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates
will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities,
behaviourally preferences, emotional intelligence and integrity. Successful
candidates will be appointed on a probation period of 12/24 months. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
90
using the mandated Full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme Note:
Due to austerity measures, the Department will not carry any related costs
(transport, accommodation, and meals) for candidates attending pre-selection
assessment/s and interviews.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/87 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPWI 01/07/2026
This is a re-advertised post. Applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply.
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14)
CENTRE : Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Bachelor’s Degree in B.Com, Management
Accounting, Financial Management (NQF L7 as recognised by SAQA, Post
graduation qualification in Finance and serving articles will be an added
advantage. Five (5) years of experience at a Senior Managerial level (within
financial management) Pre Entry SMS or Nyukela Certificate is compulsory
and will be required prior appointment. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and
Skills: Relevant legislation and prescripts. Relevant Departmental policies and
procedures. Public Finance Management Act. Public Service Act. Results /
Quality Management, Decision Making, Knowledge Management, Knowledge
and understanding of legislative framework that governs the public service,
Understanding and application of the following prescripts: Public Finance
Management Act, DORA, Treasury regulations, Treasury/Practice Notes,
Treasury & DPSA Circulars, General Accounting Principles (GRAP), SCM
Guidelines and Frameworks, Understanding Financial Management best
practices, Financial Management Systems (PERSAL, BAS & LOGIS). Budget
formulation and control, Financial reporting and audit coordination, Risk
management and internal controls, Infrastructure funding frameworks and
financial modelling, Government programmes, Information management,
Citizen Focus and Responsiveness, Develop others, Applied Technology
Basics, Applied Strategic Thinking, People Management, Networking and
Building Bonds, Diversity Management, Report Writing, Computer Literacy,
Negotiation, Communication and Information Management, Presentation,
Analytical, Budget and Financial Management, Project/Management, Strategic
Management, Motivational, Conflict Resolution / Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Oversee the management and provision of management accounting services:
Ensure appropriate management, planning and compilation of the MTEF
budget and adjustment estimates for the department. Oversee budget
preparation process and budget monitoring for the department. Oversee the
final draft budget preparation process and provide support to internal
stakeholders’ prior submission. Manage compilation and implementation of
monthly forecasts. Oversee compilation and timely submission of monthly,
quarterly and annual financial performance reports and provide
recommendations and advice programmes to address significant variances.
Ensure financial statements are submitted timeously in accordance with
applicable standards and legislative requirements. Oversee provisioning
Financial Accounting and Administration Services: Ensure development,
monitoring and implementation of financial administration and accounting
policies, systems and processes. Ensure the management of salary payments
and rebates. Ensure the management of expenditure and general payments
services. Oversee expenditure control systems to prevent over/under-
expenditure and unauthorized, irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure
(UIFW). Ensure provision of asset liability and debt management services.
Oversee development, implementation, and monitoring of revenue
management frameworks, systems, and processes to ensure effective billing,
collection, and accounting of revenue generated by the department. Ensure
management and provisioning of bookkeeping and financial accounting
services. Oversee the provisioning of supply chain and asset management
services: Oversee the development and monitoring on the implementation of
supply chain management internal policies, systems and processes. Ensure
the management of demand management services. Manage the provision of
asset management services. Manage rendering services to and advise internal
units with regards to demand and acquisition of services and goods. Ensure
sound provisioning of supply and logistics management services. Ensure
91
sound management and provisioning of procurement performance and
compliance monitoring services. Ensure management of assets and fleet
management services. Ensure accuracy, completeness and validity of financial
reporting on departmental assets and accurate departmental asset register.
Ensure the provision of internal control and compliance management services:
Manage coordination on the implementation of audit recommendations.
Oversee management of Fraud and loss in the department. Oversee
management of Fraud Prevention. Ensure implementation of governance
framework across the department. Ensure compliance monitoring in relation to
policies, processes and procedures. Ensure implementation of corrective
measures and preventative controls in respect of all financial risk and audit
findings as per reports of the Auditor General and Internal Audit Unit. Ensure
monitoring of operations on accounting systems, controls and procedures to
ensure the integrity of financial information. Promote good corporate
governance. Employee Performance: implementation and monitoring of the
policy focused priorities as pronounced in the Departmental Policy Speech,
Promote intergovernmental relations, integrated governance and sound
stakeholder relationship, Management of Provincial transversal programs,
Facilitation of minimum information security standards (MISS) and overall
accountability of the Department. Key Government Focus Arears: Develop and
implement an effective and efficient supply chain management system,
Support international and regional integration programmes and commitments,
Promote diversity and Transformation management Priorities, Promoted
integrated Governance. Auditor General: Focus on the measurement of the
extent of the departmental financial and legislative compliance, Ensure no
material findings on non-compliance with legislation, Ensure financial
statement is free from material misstatements. Organizational Performance:
Ensure the development, implementation and review of the Departmental
Strategic Imperatives, Focus on assessing the organizational performance
based on the predetermined targets in the Annual Performance Plan, Ensure
the audited Annual Report (AR) will be used to establish the extent in which the
objective in the APP has been achieved.
ENQUIRIES : Mr.T.Matiso at 066 489 6117/Ms S. Zazini Tel No: (040) 602 4236 / Mr L Maliti
at 066 489 6117
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to white male.
POST 27/88 : DIRECTOR: PROPERTY MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPWI 02/07/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, B Degree/B SC in Property Studies/Real Estate
(NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA) with 5-years of experience at Middle/
Senior Managerial level. Pre-entry certificate for the Senior Management
Service (Nyukela) is compulsory and will be required prior appointment. A valid
driver’s licence. Knowledge and Skills: In-depth knowledge and understanding
of legislative framework that governs the Public Service, In-depth knowledge
and understanding of National and Provincial Property legislation, Regulations
and Policies. Understanding of public sector governance framework,
compliance and accountability mechanisms, In-depth knowledge,
understanding and application of GIAMA. Expertise in lease management,
state land administration, property valuations and asset optimisation
strategies. In-depth knowledge of and understanding of Public Finance
Management Act. Applicable legislation and Prescripts. Government
Programmes. Information Management. Citizen Focus and Responsiveness.
Develop Others. Applied Technology Basics. People Management. Applied
Strategic Thinking. Networking and Building Bonds. Diversity Management.
Report Writing. Communication and Information Management. Negotiations.
Analytica. Strategic Management. Budget and Information Management.
Motivational. Conflict Resolution / Problem Solving. Competencies: Strategic
Capability and Leadership. Communication. Client orientation and Customer
Focus. People Management and Empowerment. Problem Analysis and
Solving. Financial Management. Programme and Project Management.
Results/ Quality Management. Decision Making. Knowledge Management.
Change Management.
DUTIES : Ensure Sound Management of Expense Lease. Provide strategic leadership
and oversight for the provincial expense lease portfolio to ensure alignment
92
with departmental accommodation strategies and infrastructure plans.
Oversee implementation of Immovable Asset Management Policy related to
leasing and ensuring compliance with legislative and governance frameworks.
Direct strategic accommodation planning based on User and Custodian Asset
Management Plans to optimised leasing decisions. Oversee provincial leasing
procurement planning to ensure cost effectiveness, compliance, and
responsiveness to client departmental needs. Manage high-level stakeholder
relations between landlords, client departments, and government stakeholders
to ensure service delivery and value optimisation. Ensure Sound Management
of Income Lease. Provide strategic leadership in managing the provincial
income lease portfolio to maximise revenue generation and asset utilisation.
Oversee development and maintenance of the Provincial Income Lease
Register to ensure accuracy, compliance, and strategic decision making. Drive
strategies for commercialisation and optimal utlilisation of state land and
buildings. Provide strategic oversight and support to regional offices to ensure
consistent revenue lease management practices. Strengthen stakeholder
partnerships with private sector and public institutions to enhance revenue
opportunities. Ensure Proper Management of Property Holdings. Provide
strategic oversight on management of provincial property holdings to ensure
optimal utilization, compliance and asset value preservation. Oversee lease
contract governance to ensure compliance, validity, and risk mitigation across
the property portfolio. Direct strategic land administration initiatives, including
land audits, utilisation assessments, and long-term planning. Facilitate high-
level stakeholder engagement with public and private sector entities regarding
property matters. Oversee research, reporting, and information management
systems to support evidence-based property management decisions. Ensure
Effective Management of Municipal Services, Property Rates and Taxes.
Provide strategic oversight on the management of municipal services rates,
and taxes to ensure compliance with financial and legislative prescripts.
Oversee validation and payment processes for municipal accounts to ensure
financial accuracy and accountability. Ensure effective management of debtors
and creditors relating to municipal services, including risk mitigation and
financial reporting. Engage strategically with municipalities to resolve service
delivery and billing challenges affecting state properties. Manage Allocated
resources services. Manage the allocated resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Matiso at 066 489 / S. Zazini Tel No: (040) 602 4236 / Mr L Maliti at 066
489 6117
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Coloured male with disability.
POST 27/89 : DIRECTOR: PROPERTY INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
DPWI 03/07/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, B Degree/B SC in Property Studies/Real Estate
(NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA) with 5-years of experience at Middle /
Senior Managerial level. Pre-entry certificate for the Senior Management
Service (Nyukela) is compulsory and will be required prior appointment. A valid
driver’s licence. Knowledge and Skills: In-depth knowledge and understanding
of legislative framework that governs the Public Service. In-depth knowledge
and understanding of National and Provincial Property legislation, Regulations
and Polies. Understanding of public sector governance framework, compliance
and accountability mechanisms. In-depth knowledge, understanding and
application of GIAMA. Expertise in lease management, state land
administration, property valuations and asset optimisation strategies. In-depth
knowledge and understanding of Public Finance Management Act. Applicable
legislation and Prescripts. Government Programmes. Information
Management Applicable Council Registration legislation, procedures and
conduct. Government Programmes. Information Management. Citizen Focus
and Responsiveness. Develop Others. Applied Technology Basics. People
Management. Applied Strategic Thinking. Networking and Building Bonds.
Diversity Management. Report Writing. Communication and Information
Management. Negotiations. Analytica. Strategic Management. Budget and
Information Management. Motivational. Conflict Resolution/ Problem Solving.
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership. Communication. Client
orientation and Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment.
93
Problem Analysis and Solving. Financial Management. Programme and
Project Management. Results/ Quality Management. Decision Making.
Knowledge Management. Change Management.
DUTIES : Ensure Efficient Management and Optimal Utilization of State Properties
Provide advice on strategic investment decisions by providing expert technical
guidance on valuation methodologies, property research, and market trends to
optimise the portfolio’s long-term value. Provide strategic oversight of portfolio
performance, interpreting performance metrics and market intelligence to
guide policy direction and ensure alignment with organisational objectives.
Lead comprehensive property research initiatives to identify investment
opportunities, assess potential leverage, and inform long-term asset planning.
Provide executive oversight on feasibility and viability assessments to guide
sustainable revenue-generating property development initiatives. Ensure
Development and Implementation of Innovative Frameworks to Enhance
Revenue Generation Across the State Portfolio. Lead high-level economic and
fiscal research initiatives to identify and priorities property-related revenue
streams, using advanced cost-benefit modelling and scenario planning to
inform strategic investment decisions across the state portfolio. Manage
development and ensure implementation of mechanisms for attraction of
property developers and investors for economic improvement of the state
portfolio Manage the facilitation and establishment of strategic partnerships
with development funders to support the transformation of property sector and
expand opportunities for emerging market entrants. Oversee governance and
performance of long-term leasing and ensure development of programmes to
ensure sustainability and compliance. Ensure Sound Management and Co-
ordination of Policy and Guideline Framework for Effective Implementation of
Sub-Programme. Provide strategic leadership in the development of policies,
guidelines, procedure manuals and processes that regulate property
investment and development. Drive strategic approval process for all newly
developed policies, guidelines, procedure manuals. Monitor the strategic
impact and effectiveness of implemented policy frameworks on the overall
performance, compliance and risk profile of the property portfolio. Ensure
alignment of property investment policies with provincial socio-economic
priorities and infrastructure strategies. Effective Management of Investment
Planning Services. Provide strategic guidance on release and utilisation of
immovable assets to maximise economic and social returns. Manage
development of investment marketing strategies. Evaluate and manage risks
and returns of property developments initiatives. Provide advice on financing
models, yield optimisation, and investment structuring for property
development projects. Manage the Allocated Resources. Maintain high
standards by ensuring that the team / section produces excellent work in terms
of quality / quantity and timeliness. Resolve problems of motivation and control
with minimum guidance from manager. Delegate functions to staff based on
individual potential provide the necessary guidance and support and afford
staff adequate training and development opportunities. Ensure timeous
development of job descriptions and implementation of Work Plans and
Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all employees in the Unit. Manage
daily employee performance and ensure timely Performance Assessments of
all subordinates Ensure management, maintenance and safekeeping of
assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Matiso at 066 489 6117/ Ms S. Zazini Tel No: (040) 602 4236 / Mr L Maliti
at 066 489 6117
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to African Female
POST 27/90 : DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY FOR HEALTH FACILITIES
REF NO: DPWI 04/07/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, B Degree (NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA) in
Civil Engineering/ Quantity Surveying/ Construction Management/ Architecture
with 5-years of experience at Middle/ Senior Managerial level in Construction
(Building structures). Pre-entry certificate for the Senior Management Service
(Nyukela) is compulsory and will be required prior appointment. A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge and Skills: In-depth knowledge and understanding of
legislative framework that governs the Public Service, In-depth knowledge
94
Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS). Understanding of
Infrastructure Programme Management Plans (IPMP) and IPIPs. Knowledge
of project lifecycle costing and asset management (planning, procurement
implementation maintenance. Understanding of life-cycle costing and asset
management principles. Knowledge and understanding Government
Immovable Asset Management Act (GIAMA). Knowledge and understanding
Infrastructure Development Act. Knowledge of National Building Regulations
and standards. Knowledge of CIDB processes and tender systems. Citizen
Focus and Responsiveness. Develop Others. Applied Technology Basics.
People Management. Applied Strategic Thinking. Networking and Building
Bonds. Diversity Management. Report Writing. Communication and
Information Management. Negotiations. Analytica. Strategic Management.
Budget and Information Management. Motivational. Conflict Resolution/
Problem Solving. Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership.
Communication. Client orientation and Customer Focus. People Management
and Empowerment. Problem Analysis and Solving. Financial Management.
Programme and Project Management. Results/ Quality Management. Decision
Making. Knowledge Management. Change Management.
DUTIES : Lead and govern development of construction procurement strategy and
Infrastructure Programme Management Plan (IPMP). Direct development and
alignment of IPMP and procurement strategies with DoH priorities. Oversee
integration of technical standards, lifecycle planning, and professional inputs.
Drive innovation and sustainable infrastructure solutions. Ensure integration
of infrastructure planning with budgeting and service delivery priorities. Advise
executive management on infrastructure planning strategies. Lead
Infrastructure Programme Implementation and Delivery Oversight. Ensure
development and alignment of Infrastructure Programme Implementation
Plans (IPIPs) with strategic and budget priorities for sign of by DoH. Direct and
prepare the procurement plan. Direct development and governance of service
delivery agreements. Oversee implementation of infrastructure programmes to
ensure alignment with time, cost, and quality. Ensure alignment of IPIPs with
budgets and cash flow projections. Oversee validation of infrastructure designs
and ensure compliance with National and Municipal Regulations. Overseer
Infrastructure Procurement and Contract Management. Ensure appointment of
suitable professionals from DoH in collaboration with the Departmental Supply
Chain Management Unit (SCM). Direct governance and compliance within
SCM processes. Manage preparation of relevant procurement documentation
throughout the different phases in the project management cycle. Ensure
registration of projects on the CIDB i-tender system. Ensure appointments of
competent service providers and contactors. Direct issuing of work and batch
orders. Oversee Sector Performance and Infrastructure Programme Reporting.
Provide strategic oversight of IPIPs and Project Execution Plans (PEPs) to
ensure alignment with DoH Priorities and budgets. Ensure implementation of
infrastructure programmes and contracts to ensure delivery within scope, time,
cost, and quality standards. Direct management of contract performance, risks,
and cost variations to ensure compliance and value for money. Lead
programmes monitoring, evaluation, and reporting to inform decision-making
and governance structures. Facilitate high-level stakeholder coordination with
DoH and implementing agents to resolve challenges and improve delivery
outcomes. Lead transition and integration of projects from alternative
implementing agents to ensure continuity and accountability. Lead Programme
Planning and Performance Planning Management Systems. Oversee
budgeting and financial management to ensure efficient and aligned resource
utilization. Drive the development and alignment of IPIPs with strategic and
funding priorities. Oversee implementation and performance of infrastructure
programmes against approved plans. Direct strategic performance reporting
to support governance and decision-making. Oversee procurement planning
to ensure alignment with delivery plans and compliance. Manage the Allocated
Resources. Maintain high standards by ensuring that the team / section
produces excellent work in terms of quality /quantity and timeline. Resolve
problems of motivation and control with minimum guidance from manager.
Delegate functions to staff based on individual potential provide the necessary
guidance and support and afford staff adequate training and development
opportunities. Ensure timeous development of job description and
implementation of Work Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all
employees in the Directorate. Manage daily employees’ performance and
95
ensure timely performance Assessment of all subordinates. Ensure
management, maintenance and safekeeping of assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Matiso at 066 489 6117/Ms S. Zazini Tel No: (040) 602 4236 / Mr L Maliti
at 066 489 6117
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth White Male.
POST 27/91 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE COORDINATING
COMMISSION (PICC) SECRETARIAT REF NO: DPWI 05/07/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13)
CENTRE : Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, B Degree (NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA) in
Developmental Studies / Public Management / Public Administration /
Engineering (Civil, Electrical, Structural, Mechanical) / Quantity Surveying /
Architecture / Urban and Regional Planning / Occupational Construction Health
and Safety / Safety Management with 5-years of experience at Middle/ Senior
Managerial level in Infrastructure environment. Pre-entry certificate for the
Senior Management Service (Nyukela) is compulsory and will be required prior
appointment. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and Skills: In-depth
knowledge and understanding of legislative framework that governs the Public
Service, In-depth understanding of the South African infrastructure landscape,
public sector governance, and the legislative framework governing
infrastructure development. Sound understanding of South African
Infrastructure Landscape, Public Sector Governance and Legislative
Framework Governing. Sound understanding of South African Infrastructure
Landscape, Public Sector Governance, and Legislative Framework Governing
Infrastructure Development and Maintenance. Knowledge of project lifecycle
costing and asset management (planning, procurement implementation
maintenance. In-depth understanding of infrastructure planning frameworks,
norms and standards as well as lifecycle costing. In-depth knowledge of
provincial and national infrastructure planning, delivery, and maintenance
frameworks. Strong understanding of government planning, procurement,
financial management (PFMA, Treasury Regulations), and governance
systems. Knowledge of Project and Programme Management methodologies,
including risk management and monitoring and evaluation frameworks.
Understanding of intergovernmental coordination, infrastructure policy, and
strategic planning principles. Citizen Focus and Responsiveness. Develop
Others. Applied Technology Basics. People Management. Applied Strategic
Thinking. Networking and Building Bonds. Diversity Management. Report
Writing. Communication and Information Management. Negotiations.
Analytica. Strategic Management. Budget and Information Management.
Motivational. Conflict Resolution/ Problem Solving. Competencies: Strategic
Capability and Leadership. Communication. Client orientation and Customer
Focus. People Management and Empowerment. Problem Analysis and
Solving. Financial Management. Programme and Project Management.
Results/ Quality Management. Decision Making. Knowledge Management.
Change Management.
DUTIES : Manage and Govern Provincial Infrastructure Coordination Frameworks. Direct
the development and institutionalisation of provincial infrastructure governance
frameworks, systems, and protocols. Advise PICC, EXCO, and governance
structures on infrastructure coordination and governance improvements.
Champion intergovernmental coordination to align infrastructure planning and
delivery across sectors. Drive alignment of infrastructure programmes with
provincial priorities and policy frameworks. Oversee continuous improvement
of governance frameworks to enhance accountability and performance. Direct
Provision of Strategic Secretariat and Advisory Services to PICC. Lead
provision of strategic secretariate services to Provincial governance structures.
Ensure consolidation and strategic presentation of infrastructure reports in
support of T-PICC and related governance structures, informing high-level
decision-making. Advise governance structures on infrastructure performance,
risks, and strategic priorities. Ensure effective functioning of governance
forums through structured coordination and support. Facilitate informed
decision-making through accurate, timely, and integrated reporting Lead
Interventions in Resolving Infrastructure Delivery Bottlenecks and Drive
Delivery of Provincial Strategics Projects (PSPS) and B5 Programmes. Direct
identification and resolution of systemic infrastructure delivery bottlenecks.
96
Oversee analysis of infrastructure performance trends and recommend
strategic interventions. Advise on corrective and preventative measures to
address delays and inefficiencies. Escalate high-impact risks and challenges
to executive leadership for resolution. Champion collaborative platforms to
strengthen coordination and accountability and shared responsibility among
stakeholders. Oversee Infrastructure Documents Information and Knowledge
Management Systems. Direct the development and management of
infrastructure information and reporting systems. Ensure integrity, accuracy,
and accessibility of infrastructure data to support decision-making. Champion
knowledge management and digital transformation initiatives. Oversee
production of strategic reports for executive and governance structures.
Facilitate evidence-based planning and decision-making through integrated
infrastructure information systems. Lead timeous development and submission
of written reports to internal and external structures (EXMA / Top Management,
EXCO resolutions, Working Groups, Cluster, Audit Committee, Risk and Ethics
Management Committee, Portfolio Committees, Parliamentary Standing
Committees, AGSA). Manage Allocated Resources. Maintain high standards
by ensuring that the team / section produces excellent work in terms of quality
/ quantity and timeliness. Resolve problems of motivation and control with
minimum guidance from manager. Delegate functions to staff based on
individual potential provide the necessary guidance and support and afford
staff adequate training and development opportunities. Ensure timeous
development of job description and implementation of Work Plans and
Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all employees in the Directorate.
Manage daily employee performance and ensure timely Performance
Assessments of all subordinates. Ensure management, maintenance and
safekeeping of assets. Ensure effective budget planning and financial
management controls for the PICC Secretariat Directorate. Ensure
implementation of localization of procurement for the PICC Secretariat
Directorate. Manage risk and fraud prevention measures for the PICC
Secretariat Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Matiso at 066 489 6117/ Ms S. Zazini Tel No: (040) 602 4236 / Mr L Maliti
at 066 489 6117
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth White Male.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/92 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RECRUITMENT & SELECTION REF NO: DPWI
06/07/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, B Degree NQF Level 7 (as recognised by SAQA)
in Human Resource Management/ Public Administration/ Industrial Psychology
with three years’ relevant experience in Human Resource Management at an
Assistant Director Level. A valid driver’s licence. Introduction to PERSAL
Certificate is compulsory. Knowledge and Skills: In-depth knowledge and
understanding of legislative framework that governs the Public Services.
Knowledge, understanding and application of legislative framework policies
and prescripts that govern the Recruitment and Selection process in the Public
Service. In-depth knowledge and understanding of Human Resource
Management prescripts and legislations. Knowledge of PERSAL System.
Knowledge of Financial regulations and instructions and application of financial
procedures. Applied strategic thinking. Research skills. Apply Technology.
Budgeting and Financial Management. Communication and Information
Management. Continuous Improvement. Citizen Focus and Responsiveness.
Developing others. Diversity management Impact and Influence. Managing
Interpersonal Conflict and Resolving Problems. Networking and building
Bonds. Planning and organising. Problem solving and decision making. Project
management. Team Leadership. Computer literate. Good communication skills
(verbal and written). Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership.
Communication. Client orientation and Customer Focus. People Management
and Empowerment. Problem Analysis and Solving. Financial Management.
Programme and Project Management. Results/ Quality Management. Decision
Making. Knowledge Management. Change Management.
97
DUTIES : Manage Implementation of Recruitment, Selection and Appointment Process.
Develop and ensure implementation of Annual Recruitment Plan. Manage
Implementation of Transfers, Translation and Secondments. Monitor and report
on transfers of employees from other departments. Monitor and report on
secondment of employees. Report on acting appointments of departmental
employees. Management Development and Reviewal Recruitment Policies,
Strategies & Procedures. Develop long-term strategies to address employee
turnover. Present policy to stakeholders for input. Conduct awareness
campaigns on developed and reviewed policy and strategies. Monitor and
evaluate the effectiveness and implementation of the retention strategies or
techniques of the department. Manage Implementation of Pay Progression and
Grade progression. Monitor Payments of Pay progression and Grade
progression. Request HR status report. Managing area of responsibility.
Maintain high standards by ensuring that the team\section produces excellent
work in terms of quality and timelines. Resolve problems of motivation and
control with minimum guidance from managers. Delegate functions to staff,
based on individual potential, provide the necessary guidance and support and
afford staff adequate training and development opportunities. Manage
employee performance daily and ensure timely. Ensure development &
implementation of work plans for all subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Matiso at 066 489 6117Ms S. Zazini Tel No: (040) 602 4236 / Mr L Maliti
at 066 489 6117
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Coloured Female.
POST 27/93 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: DPWI 07/07/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, B Degree (NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA) in
Public Administration / Human Resource Management/ Industrial Psychology
with three years’ relevant experience in Corporate Services at an Assistant
Director Level. A valid driver’s licence. Introduction to PERSAL Certificate is
compulsory. Knowledge and Skills: In-depth knowledge and understanding of
legislative framework that governs the Public Service. In-depth knowledge and
understanding of all Acts and Regulating that governs the HRM discipline.
Knowledge, understanding and application of legislative framework, policies
and prescripts that govern the Recruitment and Selection process in the Public
Service. Knowledge and understanding of Archives and Records Management
Act etc. Knowledge of PERSAL System. Knowledge of Financial regulations
and instructions and application of financial procedures. Applied Strategic
Thinking, Research Skills, Applying Technology, Budgeting and Financial
Management, Communication and Information Management, Continuous
Improvement, Citizen Focus and Responsiveness, Developing Others,
Diversity Management, Impact and Influence, Managing Interpersonal Conflict
and Resolving Problems, Networking and Building Bonds, Planning and
Organising, Problem Solving and Decision Making, Project Management,
Team Leadership, Computer Literate, Good Communication Skills (verbal and
written). Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership, Communication,
Client orientation and Customer Focus, People Management and
Empowerment, Problem Analysis and Solving, Financial Management,
Programmes and Project Management, Results / Quality Management,
Decision Making, Knowledge Management, Change Management.
DUTIES : Manage Recruitment, selection and placement of employees, Manage and
coordinate recruitment, selection, placement and HR Planning. Facilitate and
coordinate sitting of Employment Equity committee. Manage compliance with
recruitment process. Manage district establishment. Manage Conditions of
Services and implementation of employee benefits. Manage leave
administration and PILIR. Manage payment of benefits. Manage HR Registry
services. Facilitate implementation of COIDA. Manage Human Resource
Development. Manage coordination of training and development. Manage
coordination of skills audit and workplace skills plan. Manage coordination and
implementation of PMDS and development. Manage implementation of
Internship and learnership programme. Manage coordination of Training
Committee activities. Manage Employee Health and Wellness. Manage
HIV/AIDS and TB in the workplace. Monitor Health and Productivity
Management. Manage SHERQ services. Manage Wellness programme.
98
Manage Employment Relations. Advise on labour relations matters. Improve
quality of consultations between HR and management. Manage resolutions
and outcomes of grievance matters. Manage coordination of discipline and
outcomes. Facilitate and coordinate sitting of Regional Labour Forums.
Facilitate and implement outcomes of dispute and disciplinary matters. Manage
Network and IT Infrastructure. Manage provision of IT services. Manage the
provision of IT maintenance services. Manage district back-ups monthly.
Manage provision of desk top support. Manage Office Service. Manage
opening, closing and archiving of files. Manage proper maintenance of records
according to National Minimum Information Requirements (NMIR). Manage
movement of files. Manage records/ documents. Manage operations of
Registry services. Manage Allocated Resources. Maintain high standard of
performance within teams to produce excellent work within stipulated
timeframes for achievement of set objectives. Resolve problems of motivation
and control. Ensure timeously development of job descriptions, signing of
workplan agreements and assessment of employees. Ensure management,
procurement, maintenance and safekeeping of assets. Participate in strategic
planning sessions to develop district operational plans and ensure accurate
implementation and reporting thereof. Provide support on audit findings and
risks within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L. Magqaza at 069 007 4868/ MS. L. Magama at 064 754 8464
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to African Male with Disability.
POST 27/94 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FACILITIES & OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : East London Ref No: DPWI 08/07/2026
Mount Ayliff Ref No: DPWI 09/07/2026
Gqeberha Ref No: DPWI 10/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, B Degree in Real Estate/ Built Environment/
Facilities Management/ (NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA), with 3 years’
experience as Assistant Director in Facilities Management/ Property
Management. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge and Skills: In depth
knowledge & understanding of Legislative Framework that Governs Public
Service: (PSR, PFMA, PSA, SCM prescripts), Knowledge of Facilities &
Property Management. Knowledge & understanding of Occupational Health
and Safety (OHS) regulations, National Strategic Intelligence Act, Minimum
Information Security Standards, Minimum Physical Security Standards,
Promotion of Access to Information Act, Departmental Strategic Planning,
Departmental Annual Performance Plan, Policies and Procedures,
Government Programmes, Provincial Growth & Development Plan for the
Eastern Cape, Knowledge and understanding of all other HR related public
sector legislation & procedures, Stakeholder and customer relationship
management principles, Project and contract management skills, Risk
management and compliance knowledge, Strong leadership and decision-
making abilities, Communication and stakeholder engagement skills, Citizen
Focus and Responsiveness, Applied Technology Basics, Applied Strategic
Thinking, People Management, Networking and Building Bonds, Diversity
Management, Report Writing, Computer Literacy, Negotiation, Presentation,
Analytical, Budget and Financial Management, Strategic Management,
Motivational, Conflict Resolution / Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Facilitate Provision of Condition Assessments, identify properties to be
assessed, Facilitate the process of condition assessment, Receive completed
reports from inspectorate, identify properties to be renovated, Ensure the safe
keeping of records. Maintain State-Owned Buildings, Compile the list of
properties to be maintained, Liaise and forward the list to inspectorate/
maintenance, Facilitate the maintenance process, Ensure completion of
projects under facilities section. Manage Provision of Cleaning Services,
Manage identification and recommendation of properties requiring cleaning
services, Manage facilitation of procurement processes for cleaning service
providers in line with SCM prescripts, manage placement and coordination of
appointed service providers to ensure effective cleaning service delivery,
Manage monitoring of contractor performance, compliance with service level
agreements, and approval of payments. Manage Provision of Gardening and
Beautification Services, Manage identification and recommendation of
99
properties requiring gardening and beautification services, Manage facilitation
of procurement processes for gardening and related service providers in line
with SCM prescripts, Manage placement and coordination of appointed service
providers to ensure effective service delivery, Manage monitoring of contractor
performance, compliance with service level agreements, and approval of
payments. Manage Provision of Office Accommodation to Client Departments,
Manage accommodation needs assessments with client departments, Manage
identification and optimal utilisation of state and leased properties, including
development of C-AMPs and U-AMPs in line with GIAMA, Manage stakeholder
relations with user departments regarding office accommodation, Manage
monitoring of immovable asset performance and utilization, Manage
inspections of office buildings and implementation of corrective measures
where necessary, Manage reporting on accommodation provision and asset
performance. Manage Implementation of Total Security Management in The
District, Manage implementation of physical security measures, policies and
procedures, Manage and implement personnel & information security, Manage
and investigate security breaches in the district, Manage security services for
the district, Manage The Allocated Resources, Maintain high standards by
ensuring that the team / section produces excellent, work in terms of quality /
quantity and timeliness, Resolve problems of motivation and control with
minimum guidance from manager, Delegate functions to staff based on
individual potential provide the necessary guidance and support and afford
staff adequate training and development opportunities, Ensure timeously
development of job description and implementation of Work Plans and
Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all employees in the sub-directorate,
Manage daily employee performance and ensure timely Performance
Assessments of all subordinates, Ensure management, maintenance and
safekeeping of assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L. Magqaza at 069 007 4868/ Mr Z. Tana at 064 754 8464
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : East London: (Preference will be given to African Male)
Mount Ayliff: (Preference will be given to Coloured Male with Disability)
Gqeberha: (Preference will be given to Coloured Female)
POST 27/95 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER: CAPITAL WORKS (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R914 517 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : East London Ref No: DPWI 11/07/2026
Mount Ayliff Ref No: DPWI 12/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Higher Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Built
Environment Field with a minimum of 4 years and 6 months’ certified
experience/ B tech (NQF Level 7) in Built Environment Field with 4 years
certified managerial experience/ Honours Degree (NQF Level 8) in Built
Environment Field with a minimum of 3 years' experience. A valid driver's
license. Compulsory registration with the SACPCMP as Professional
Construction Project Manager. Knowledge and Skills: Decision making. Team
leadership, Analytical skills, Creativity, Self-management, financial
management, Customer focus and responsiveness, Communication,
Computer literacy, Planning and organizing, conflict management, Problem
solving and analysis, People management, Change management, innovation.
Competencies: Programme and project management, Quantity Survey
principles and methodologies, Research and development, Computer-aided
engineering applications, Knowledge of legal compliance, technical report
writing, technical consulting, Creating high performance culture, Professional
judgement.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate all aspects of projects (1) Guide the project planning.
Implementation, monitoring, reporting and evaluation in line with project
management methodology; (2) Create and execute project work plans and
revise as appropriate to meet changing needs and requirements; (3) Identify
resource needed and assign individual responsibilities; (4) Manage day-to-day
operational aspects of a project of scope and (5) Effectively apply methodology
and enforce project standards to minimize risk on projects. Project Accounting
and Financial Management: (I) Report project progress to Head of Buildings-
Capital Works; and (2) Manage Project budget and resources; Office
Administration: (1 ) Provide inputs to other professionals with tender
administration; (2) Liaise and interact with service providers, client and
management; (3) contribute to the human resources allocated related
100
activities; (4) maintain the records management system and the architectural
library; and (5) utilize resources allocated effectively. Research and
Development: (1) Keep up with new technologies and procedures; (2)
research/literature on new developments on projects management
technologies; and (3) Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on project
management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L. Magqaza at 069 007 4868/ Mr. Z. Tana at 064 754 8464
for Mount Ayliff posts: Ms O. Mailula at 060 979 3691 / Ms N. Gcabi at 039 254
6942
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : East London (Preference will be given to African Female)
Mount Ayliff (Preference will be given to White Male)
POST 27/96 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR: INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY FOR EDUCATION
FACILITIES REF NO: DPWI 13/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) with three (3)
years post qualification quantity surveyor experience is required. A valid
driver’s licence. Compulsory Registration with SACQSP as a Professional
Quantity Surveyor. Knowledge and Skills: Decision making. Team leadership,
Creativity, Self-management, financial management, Customer focus and
responsiveness, Communication skills, Computer literacy, Planning and
organizing, conflict management, Problem solving and analysis, People
management, Change management, innovation. Competencies: Programme
and project management, Project principles and methodologies, Research and
development, Computer-aided engineering applications, Knowledge of legal
compliance, technical report writing, Technical consulting, Creating high
performance culture, Networking, Professional judgement.
DUTIES : Perform Quantity survey activities on buildings, structures or facilities.
Coordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding Quantity Survey.
Ensure adherence to Quantity Survey determination standards. Provide
quantity survey advice and technical support in the evaluation of costs. Ensure
administration and budget planning. Manage resources, prepare and
consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilization. Ensure adherence
to regulations and procedures for procurement of SCM and personnel. Report
on delivery expenditure and service. Research and development. Continuous
professional development according to council guidelines. Research/literature
studies on quantity surveys to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on quantity survey related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S. Zazini Tel No: (040) 602 4236 / Mr L Maliti at 066 489 6117
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to African Female with Disablity and Youth White
Female.
POST 27/97 : TOWN PLANNER: IMMOVABLE ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPWI
14/07/2026
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Aliwal North
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree in Urban / Town and Regional Planning or relevant
qualification with three (3) years’ post qualification professional experience
required. Valid driver’s license. Compulsory Registration with SACPLAN.
Knowledge and Skills: Decision making. Team leadership, Creativity, Self-
management, financial management, Customer focus and responsiveness,
Communication skills, Computer literacy, Delegation and development of
others, Planning, organizing and execution, Ability to manage conflict, Problem
solving and analysis, Insight, People management and Change management.
Competencies: Project and Programme Management. T&R Principles and
Methodologies. Research and Development. Computer-aided applications.
T&R knowledge of legal compliance. Creating high performance culture.
Technical consulting. Professional judgement.
DUTIES : Ensure the application of Town and Regional Principles in land development.
Facilitate and provide technical assistance to professional teams on all aspects
regarding town and regional planning projects. Ensure adherence to legal
requirements. Coordinate, evaluate and monitor the implementation of
101
development in compliance with applicable legislation and town and regional
planning standards and guidelines. Human Capital Development. Mentor, train
and develop candidate town and regional planners. Supervise town and
regional planning work processes. Office administration and Budget planning.
Monitor and control budget. Report on delivery expenditure and service.
Research and development. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on town and
regional planning related matters. Research Literature studies on town and
regional technology to improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M. Mavotsho at 083 753 9381/Mr. M. Tshwaku at 083 753 9381
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth, White Male.
POST 27/98 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LEASES (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Queenstown Ref No: DPWI 15/07/2026
Aliwal North Ref No: DPWI 16/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF level 6 as recognised by
SAQA) in Facilities Management/ Property Management / Horticulture &
Landscaping / Real Estate / Building / Construction Management with 3 years’
experience at supervisory level or SL7/8 in Facilities Management. A valid
driver’s licence. Knowledge and Skills: In-depth knowledge and understanding
of legislative framework that governs Public Service. In-depth knowledge and
understanding of GIAMA. Knowledge and understanding of PFMA. In-depth
knowledge and understanding of Occupational Health and Safety Act and
related buildings regulations. Knowledge and understanding of Facilities
Management Policies, Procedures and Best Practices. Knowledge of Asset
and Maintenance Management. Departmental service delivery principles.
Departmental Strategic Planning. Departmental Annual Performance Plan.
Policies and Procedures. Government Programmes. Provincial Growth and
Development Plan for the Eastern Cape. Stakeholder and customer
relationship management principles. Planning, coordination. Problem-solving
and analytical ability. Facilities inspection and compliance monitoring. Report
writing and data analysis. Stakeholder engagement and client relations.
Communication. Client relationship management. Report writing and
presentation. Computer literacy (MS Office, Facilities Management Systems).
Project Coordination.
DUTIES : Coordinate provision of cleaning services: Coordinate the provision of cleaning
services across district facilities. Facilitate development of specifications and
procurement processes for cleaning services. Monitor contractor performance
and ensure compliance with service standards. Oversee contract
administration, including verification of service delivery and certification of
payments. Monitor cleanliness of government facilities to ensure adherence to
departmental cleaning standards policies. Coordinate provision of gardening
and beautification services: Coordinate provision of gardening and landscaping
services for state facilities. Facilitate procurement and appointment of service
providers in line with SCM processes. Monitor performance and quality of
services delivered. Oversee contract implementation and compliance with
environmental standards. Ensure alignment of services with departmental
maintenance and beautification standards. Coordinate implementation of
condition assessments: Coordinate implementation of condition assessments
for state owned facilities. Analyse condition assessment reports to inform
maintenance planning and prioritization. Facilitate development of
maintenance plans and cost estimates based on condition assessment data.
Provide reports to inform infrastructure and asset management decisions –
making. Ensure proper recordkeeping of condition assessments and
maintenance reports. Manage utilization inspection on state-owned buildings:
Plan and conduct utilization inspections to assess use of allocated space.
Monitor space utilisation and identify underutilized or non-compliant usage of
facilities. Analyse inspection findings and compile reports to inform
management decisions. Ensure compliance with GIAMA and space
management standards. Monitor maintenance of utilisation and inspection
records. Coordinate implementation of health and safety audits on state owned
facilities: Coordinate implementation of occupational health and safety
requirements across facilities. Monitor compliance with relevant OHS
legislation and building regulations. Facilitate execution of health and safety
inspections and audits. Analyse risks identified and recommended appropriate
102
corrective interventions. Promote safe working environments in line with
statutory and departmental requirements. Supervise the allocated resources:
Maintain high standards by ensuring that the team / section produces excellent
work in terms of quality / quantity and timeliness. Resolve problems of
motivation and control with minimum guidance from Manager. Delegate
functions to staff based on individual potential provide the necessary guidance
and support and afford staff adequate training and development opportunities.
Ensure timeously development of job description and implementation of Work
Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all employees in the sub-
directorate. Manage daily employee performance and ensure timely
Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Ensure management,
maintenance and safekeeping of assets
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Ndawo at 083 627 2151 / Ms. S. Nenene at 083 657 2151 / Mr S.
Mpumlwana at 083 627 2151
e-recruitment Technical Enquires: erecruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Queenstown: (Preference will be given to Youth, White Male)
Aliwal North: (Preference will be given to Youth, African Males)
POST 27/99 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LAND AND PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: DPWI 17/07/2026
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Mount Ayliff
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificates/ National Diploma (NQF level 6 as recognised by
SAQA) in Real Estate/Property Management/ Land Administration/ Town
Planning with three years’ experience at supervisory level in Property
Management. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and Skills: In-depth knowledge
and understanding of legislative framework that governs the public service.
Departmental service delivery principles. Knowledge of departmental policies
and procedures. Knowledge and application of Property development
principles. Knowledge of Land administration and vesting processes.
Knowledge and application of GIAMA. Knowledge Deed Registries Act,
Surveyor General’s office procedures. Knowledge of Deeds Office and
Surveyor General procedures. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management Act
and procedures. Knowledge of GIS and Land Information Systems. Planning
and coordination. Property data analysis. Stakeholder engagement. Report
writing. GIS and property systems literacy. Problem-solving.
DUTIES : Coordinate development and maintenance of Immovable Asset Register.
Coordinate process for collection, verification, and updating of immovable
asset data. Facilitate GIS mapping and site verification and desktop research
processes. Monitor accuracy, completeness, and integrity of the Immovable
Asset Register. Facilitate provision of property information to stakeholders.
Liaise with municipalities and relevant stakeholders to validate asset data.
Coordinate Acquisition & Disposal of Immovable Assets Coordinate acquisition
and disposal processes of immovable assets in line with legislation. Facilitate
stakeholder engagement with municipalities, landowners, and relevant
authorities. Oversee preparation and submission of acquisition and disposal
applications. Monitor compliance with land claim verification and statutory
requirements. Coordinate registration, transfer, and safekeeping of property
documentation. Monitor updating of asset registers following acquisition or
disposal processes. Coordinate implementation of vesting process. Coordinate
identification of state properties requiring vesting. Facilitate preparation and
submission of vesting applications. Coordinate presentation of vesting cases
to relevant committees. Monitor recording of vested properties in relevant
systems (LAW & Asset Register). Provide technical support on vesting
processes. Coordinate land and audit projects. Coordinate planning and
implementation of land audit projects. Provide technical oversight into audit
methodologies and processes. Facilitate data collection, verification, and site
inspection processes. Consolidate audit findings and ensure integration into
asset management planning. Monitor progress and quality of audit outputs.
Supervise the allocated resources: Maintain high standards by ensuring that
the team / section produces excellent work in terms of quality / quantity and
timeliness. Resolve problems of motivation and control with minimum guidance
from manager. Delegate functions to staff based on individual potential provide
the necessary guidance and support and afford staff adequate training and
development opportunities. Ensure timeously development of job description
and implementation of Work Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s)
103
for all employees in the sub-directorate. Manage daily employee performance
and ensure timely Performance Assessments of all subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : for Mount Ayliff posts: Ms O. Mailula at 060 979 3691 / Ms N. Gcabi at 060 979
3691
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Indian Female with Disability.
POST 27/100 : CHIEF ARTISAN: GRADE A (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R499 470 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Port ST Johns Depot Ref No: DPWI 22/07/2026
Peddie Depot Ref No: DPWI 23/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate within the built environment with ten (10)
years post qualification experience required as an Artisan/Artisan Foreman. A
valid driver’s licence. General Knowledge: Public Service Regulations, Public
Service Act. Project Coordination, Technical Design and Analysis Knowledge,
Research and development. Technical Competencies: Technical design and
analysis knowledge, technical report writing, technical consulting, computer
aided technical applications, legal compliance, production process knowledge
and skills, teamwork, interpersonal skills, communication skills. problem
solving and analysis, decision making, Planning & Organizing, computer skills,
management, customer focus and responsiveness.
DUTIES : Manage technical services. Lead and guide the rendering of technical services
in field and workshops. Facilitate and monitor promotion of safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements. Provide quality assurance services in
line with specifications. Manage maintenance of technical services. Manage
servicing of all makes of technical equipment and facilities. Maintain the
technical infrastructure. Manage and monitor undertaking daily preventative
and maintenance work. Manage administrative and related functions. Provide
input into the budgeting process. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical operational plan. Manage
updating of database. Manage human and physical resources. Coach and
mentor subordinates. Compile job profiles. Develop work plans. Conduct
performance reviews. Identify training needs. Financial Management Control
and monitor expenditure trends. People Management. Maintain and advance
expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L. Magqaza at 069 007 4868/ Mr Z. Tana at 064 754 8464, e-recruitment
Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
for Mthatha posts: Ms. V Potelwa / Mr. V. Sokhahleleka at 072 567 2584, e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Port ST Johns Depot: (Preference will be given to African Female)
Peddie Depot: (Preference will be given to African Male)
POST 27/101 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FACILITIES & OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DPWI 16/07/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Aliwal North
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma NQF level 6 as recognised by
SAQA in Facilities Management / Property Management/Horticulture &
Landscaping / Real Estate / Building / Construction Management / Quantity
Surveying with 3 years’ experience in supervisory level or SL7/8 in Facilities
Management. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and Skills: In-depth
knowledge and understanding of legislative framework that governs Public
Service. In-depth knowledge and understanding of GIAMA. Knowledge and
understanding of PFMA. In-depth knowledge and understanding of
Occupational Health and Safety Act and related buildings regulations.
Knowledge and understanding of Facilities Management Policies, Procedures
and Best Practices. Knowledge of Asset and Maintenance Management.
Departmental service delivery principles. Departmental Strategic Planning.
Departmental Annual Performance Plan. Policies and Procedures.
Government Programmes. Provincial Growth and Development Plan for the
Eastern Cape. Stakeholder and customer relationship management principles.
Planning, coordination. Problem-solving and analytical ability. Facilities
inspection and compliance monitoring. Report writing and data analysis.
Stakeholder engagement and client relations. Communication. Client
104
relationship management. Report writing and presentation. Computer literacy
(MS Office, Facilities Management Systems). Project Coordination.
DUTIES : Coordinate provision of cleaning services: Coordinate the provision of cleaning
services across district facilities. Facilitate development of specifications and
procurement processes for cleaning services. Monitor contractor performance
and ensure compliance with service standards. Oversee contract
administration, including verification of service delivery and certification of
payments. Monitor cleanliness of government facilities to ensure adherence to
departmental cleaning standards policies. Coordinate provision of gardening
and beautification services: Coordinate provision of gardening and landscaping
services for state facilities. Facilitate procurement and appointment of service
providers in line with SCM processes. Monitor performance and quality of
services delivered. Oversee contract implementation and compliance with
environmental standards. Ensure alignment of services with departmental
maintenance and beautification standards. Coordinate implementation of
condition assessments: Coordinate implementation of condition assessments
for state owned facilities. Analyse condition assessment reports to inform
maintenance planning and prioritization. Facilitate development of
maintenance plans and cost estimates based on condition assessment data.
Provide reports to inform infrastructure and asset management decisions –
making. Ensure proper recordkeeping of condition assessments and
maintenance reports. Manage utilization inspection on state-owned buildings:
Plan and conduct utilization inspections to assess use of allocated space.
Monitor space utilisation and identify underutilized or non-compliant usage of
facilities. Analyse inspection findings and compile reports to inform
management decisions. Ensure compliance with GIAMA and space
management standards. Monitor maintenance of utilisation and inspection
records. Coordinate implementation of health and safety audits on state owned
facilities: Coordinate implementation of occupational health and safety
requirements across facilities. Monitor compliance with relevant OHS
legislation and building regulations. Facilitate execution of health and safety
inspections and audits. Analyse risks identified and recommended appropriate
corrective interventions. Promote safe working environments in line with
statutory and departmental requirements. Supervise the allocated resources:
Maintain high standards by ensuring that the team / section produces excellent
work in terms of quality / quantity and timeliness. Resolve problems of
motivation and control with minimum guidance from Manager. Delegate
functions to staff based on individual potential provide the necessary guidance
and support and afford staff adequate training and development opportunities.
Ensure timeously development of job description and implementation of Work
Plans and Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all employees in the sub-
directorate. Manage daily employee performance and ensure timely
Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Ensure management,
maintenance and safekeeping of assets.
ENQUIRIES : contact Mr. M. Mavotsho at 083 753 9381/Mr. M. Tshwaku at 083 753 9381
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth, African Males.
POST 27/102 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IGR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
COMMUNICATION (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : East London, BCM Ref No: DPWI 18/07/2026
East London (Amathole) Ref No: DPWI 19/07/2026
Aliwal North Ref No: 20/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, B-Degree/ National Diploma in Public
Management/ Administration, Management/ Social Science, Development
Studies, (NQF L6 as recognised by SAQA), with 3 years’ experience at
supervisory level or SL7/8 and drivers’ licence is compulsory. Knowledge and
Skills: RSA Constitution – Corporative Governance, Public Service Act; Public
Service Regulations, IGR Framework Act, 13 of 2005, National/ Provincial
Development Plan, 2011, District Development Model, 2019, Integrated
Development Plan, Problem solving skills, Strategic capability and leadership,
Management skills, Communication skills, Computer skills, Organizational
Skills, Communication, Programme and project management.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate Stakeholder Relations, Establish and maintain
stakeholder relations, Develop stakeholder database, Generate and
105
communicate feedback on issues raised by relevant stakeholders, Maintain
effective relations with sector departments and Municipalities at District level,
Attend and participate in all IGR forums, Coordinate implementation of cluster
collaborative, Enhance cooperation between DPWI and relevant, community
based stakeholders, Monitor implementation of resolutions, Manage rendering
of communication services in the District, Monitor provision of internal and
external communications to the stakeholders, Manage maintenance of the
brand for the department, Manage marketing and advertising of District events
and programmes, Monitor participation in relevant communication forums
inside and outside the department, Monitor development of District newsletters,
Manage the rendering of effective and efficient customer service to the clientele
of the district, Manage handling of complaints , Monitor reference of complaints
to relevant officials, Ensure that follow ups are made by telephone, letter, fax
or email so as to adhere to turnaround times, Implement and monitor
adherence to Batho Pele Principles, Compile weekly, monthly and quarterly
customer care reports, Manage distribution of departmental/district
publications, Monitor proper handling of incoming and outgoing calls and
manage the front line desk, Render administrative functions, Coordinate
development of District plans, Report on implementation of project plans,
Monitor development of District AOP, Receive and review enquiries regarding
services of the Department, Supervise allocated resources, Maintain high
standard of performance within team in order to produce excellent work within
stipulated timeframes for achievement of set objectives, Resolve problems of
motivation and control. Delegate functions to staff based on individual potential,
provide necessary guidance and support and afford staff adequate training and
development opportunities. Ensure timeous development of job descriptions,
signing of workplan agreements and assessment of employees. Provide
support on audit findings and risks within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L. Magqaza at 069 007 4868/ Mr Z. Tana at 064 754 8464
Mr. M. Mavotsho at 083 753 9381/Mr. M. Tshwaku at 083 753 9381
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : East London, BCM: (Preference will be given to African Male)
East London (Amathole): (Preference will be given to Youth African Female)
Aliwal North: (Preference will be given to African Male)
POST 27/103 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPWI
21/07/2027
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gqeberha
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/ National Diploma (NQF level 6 as recognised by
SAQA) in Supply Chain Management / Logistics / Operations Management /
Purchase Management / Procurement with three years’ experience at
supervisory level or salary level 7/8 in Demand Management. A valid driver’s
licence. Knowledge and Skills: National Treasury Prescripts and Circulars,
Provincial Treasury Prescripts and Circulars, SCM Delegations, Policies and
Prescripts, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations of 2016, Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), Applicable Legislation and Prescripts,
CIBD, BBBEE, PPPFA, Policies and Procedures. People Management, Report
Writing, Computer Literacy, Negotiation, Communication and Information
Management, Presentation, Analytical, Budget and Financial Management,
Motivational, Conflict Resolution / Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Facilitate the development of procurement plans for the District (threshold
below R500 000): Liaise with programme heads to source inputs, Analyse and
verify the plans in consultation with the programmes/units, Align the draft
procurement plan with the allocated budget, Consolidate the District
procurement plan, Monitor, review and assess existing plans and report and
check compliance on the submitted RFQS and RFP’s, Monitor spending
analysis of the procurement plan and submit reports. Conduct needs analysis
of the district: Verify past spending of the district, compare stores against
procurement plan, advise on District needs planning and spending, and assess
District future needs. Perform commodity/industry analysis: Check available
commodities in the market to meet the requirements of the district; conduct
industry analysis to determine the types of industries; perform life cycle cost
analysis for the district; provide an updated price index. Monitor the
procurement process for goods and services: Ensure timeous procurement of
goods/services; ensure value for money in the procurement of goods/services;
106
advise during Bid Specification Committee (BSC) sittings; monitor compliance
with SCM prescripts; monitor safekeeping of BID documents; compile monthly,
quarterly, and annual reports. Supervise the allocated resources: Maintain high
standards by ensuring that the team/section produces excellent work in terms
of quality/quantity and timeliness, Resolve problems of motivation and control
with minimum guidance from manager, Delegate functions to staff based on
individual potential provide the necessary guidance and support and afford
staff adequate training and development opportunities, Ensure timeously
development of job description and implementation of Work Plans and
Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all employees in the Chief
Directorate. Manage daily employee performance and ensure timely
Performance Assessments of all subordinates. Ensure management,
maintenance, and safekeeping of assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Bermoskie at 083 797 8135 / Mr. S.Damane at 083 797 8135
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to White Female.
POST 27/104 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR: ELECTRICAL REF NO: DPWI 24/07/2026
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or equivalent, or a N3 and passed trade
test in electrical, or registration as an Engineering Technician. 3-5 years of
appropriate experience. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and Skills: Building
Regulations, Quality Control of all building works, Management of people, risk,
change and promotion of teamwork, Management, OHS. Competencies: Good
verbal, writing and communication skills, conflict management skills, computer
literacy, client orientation and customer focus skills, report writing skills, self-
management.
DUTIES : Identify needs and requirements of new work and repairs through the
investigation of customer complaints and new services required through inter
alia the following: Prepare specifications for unplanned maintenance and minor
new work, develop a bill of quantities, develop proposals on the associated
costs. Render an inspection service of work done on new projects and existing
structures, through inter alia the following: Inspect new and/or maintenance
work undertaken on project sites to ensure that it is being done in compliance
with all relevant regulations and legislation and that proper quality control is
maintained, compile an estimate of repairs and costs for minor new work and
maintenance work to be undertaken, develop, implement and maintain an
electronic record system for work being done and work that was finalized,
develop progress reports on outstanding and finalized work. Analyze and
compile relevant project documentation for new and existing structures,
through inter alia the following: develop and interpret plans and sketches, draw-
up quotation documents and compile specification, bills of quantities and bid
documents, adjudicate and provide recommendations on quotations and bids,
liaise with relevant stakeholders in respect of technical aspects. Manage the
activities of contractors on project sites through inter alia the following: Advice
and guide contractors in respect of the compliance to legislation and
procedures, verify invoices and certify progress of payments, check and
process variation orders and make recommendations on requests for
extension of deadlines, brief contractors and consultants on projects and certify
claims for fees, ensure effective contract administration, facilitate and resolve
problems emanating from projects and develop progress reports on projects.
Gather and submit information in terms of the extended public works
programme. Supervise the performance and conduct of Works Inspectors
through inter alia the following: Identify skills development needs and provide
training and development opportunities for Works Inspectors, provide advice
and guidance on the interpretation and application of legislation, policies and
procedures, ensure quality control and effective and efficient workflow of work
done by Works Inspectors and report on all work allocated, monitor the proper
utilization of equipment, stores and expenditure, administer the departmental
performance management and development system
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Bermoskie at 083 797 8135 / Mr. S.Damane at 083 797 8135
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Coloured Male.
107
POST 27/105 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR: MECHANICAL (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annual (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mthatha Ref No: DPWI 25/07/2026
Queenstown Ref No: DPWI 26/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF level 6 as recognised by
SAQA), (T/N/S streams), or A N3 and passed trade test in Mechanical within
built environment), or Registration as an Engineering Technician with 3 years’
relevant experience as a Works Inspector. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge
and Skills: Buildings Regulations, Quality Control of all buildings works,
Management of people, risk, change and promotion of teamwork,
Management, OHS, Good verbal, writing and communication skills, Conflict
Management skills, Computer literacy, Client orientation and customer focus
skills, Report writing skills, Self – Management. Competencies: Model high
standards of performance for self and team, Customer service, Customer
Focus, People Management and Empowerment, Problem Analysis and
Solving, Self – Management, Manages challenges and opportunities,
Computer application, Engineering Management.
DUTIES : Conduct and supervise quality control of new works and maintenance projects,
Supervise and monitor compliance with the National Building Regulations in
inspection of properties, Supervise and monitor contracts and in-house
construction by providing technical advice and guidance in respect of
compliance to regulations, legislation and processes. Attend meetings and
submit reports, Conduct condition assessment on government used facilities,
Conduct and supervise inspections on DPW used buildings, coordinate
condition assessment report with a view of effecting maintenance, Conduct and
supervise inspections on client used/leased buildings, coordinate condition
assessment report with a view to advise Immovable Assets. Monitor SMMES
with respect to quality control, Recommend the appointment of clerk of works
for each project where SMMEs are appointed, Coordinate resources such that
the frequency of inspections is increased on sites where SMMEs are involved,
Monitor effectiveness of contractors and SMMEs in all the projects, Provide
assistance to EPWP in development of SMMEs, Supervise resources, Identify
skills development needs and recommend training and development
opportunities, Ensure quality control and effective and efficient workflow by
Works Inspectors and report on all work allocated, monitor proper utilization of
stores, equipment and expenditure, Administer performance and development
system.
ENQUIRIES : for Mthatha posts: Ms. V Potelwa at 047 505 2835/ Mr. V. Sokhahleleka Tel No:
(047) 505 2768, e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Ms. N. Ndawo at 083 627 2151 / Ms. S. Nenene at 083 627 2151 / Mr. S.
Mpumlwana at 083 627 2151, e-recruitment Technical Enquires: erecruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Mthatha: Preference will be given to White Female with Disability.
Queenstown: Preference will be given to Youth, White Females.
POST 27/106 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR: GENERAL BUILDINGS: TECHNICAL
MAINTENANCE SERVICES (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gqeberha Ref No: DPWI 27/07/2026
Queenstown Ref No: DPWI 28/07/2026 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or equivalent, or
A N3 and passed Trade Test in the Built environment or Registration as an
Engineering Technician, and A valid driver’s license. Minimum of 3 years of
experience as a Works Inspector. Knowledge and Skills: Building Regulations,
Quality Control of all building works, Management of people, risk, change, and
promotion of teamwork, Management, OHS. Good verbal, writing, and
communication skills, Conflict Management skills, Computer literacy, Client
orientation and customer focus skills, Report writing skills, Self–Management.
DUTIES : Conduct and supervise quality control of new works and maintenance projects:
Supervise and monitor compliance with the National Building Regulations in
inspection of properties, Supervise and monitor contracts and in-house
construction by providing technical advice and guidance in respect of
compliance with regulations, legislation and processes, attend meetings and
submit reports. Conduct condition assessment on government-used facilities:
108
Conduct and supervise inspections on DPW-used buildings, coordinate
condition assessment report with a view to effecting maintenance, Conduct and
supervise inspections on client used/leased buildings, coordinate condition
assessment report with a view to advising Immovable Assets, attend meetings
and submit reports. Monitor SMMES with respect to quality control:
Recommend the appointment of a clerk of works for each project where
SMMEs are appointed, coordinate resources such that the frequency of
inspections is increased on sites where SMMEs are involved, monitor the
effectiveness of contractors and SMMEs in all the projects, and provide
assistance to EPWP in the development of SMMEs. Supervise resources:
Identify skills development needs and recommend training and development
opportunities, ensure quality control and effective and efficient workflow by
Works Inspectors and report on all work allocated, monitor proper utilization of
stores, equipment and expenditure, administer performance and development
system.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Bermoskie at 083 797 8135 / Mr. S.Damane at 083 797 8135, e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Ms. N. Ndawo at /083 627 2151 Ms. S. Nenene at /083 627 2151 Mr. S
Mpumlwana at 083 627 2151, e-recruitment Technical Enquires: erecruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Gqeberha: Preference will be given to Indian Male.
Queenstown: Preference will be given to Indian Female with Disability and
Indian Male.
POST 27/107 : ARTISAN FOREMAN: GRADE A (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 321 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Fort Beaufort Depot Ref No: DPWI 29/07/2026
Maluti Depot Ref No: DPWI 30/07/2026 (X2 Posts)
Straundale Depot Ref No: DPWI 31/07/2026
Steynburg Depot Ref No: DPWI 32/07/2026
Mount Fletcher Depot Ref No: DPWI 33/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Trade Test Certificate in any Built environment with five (5) years’ post
qualification experience required as an Artisan. A valid driver’s license. General
Knowledge: Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act. Project
Coordination, Technical Design and Analysis Knowledge, Research and
development. Technical Competencies: Technical design and analysis
knowledge, technical report writing, technical consulting, computer aided
technical applications, legal compliance, production process knowledge and
skills, teamwork, interpersonal skills, communication skills. problem solving
and analysis, decision making, Planning & Organizing, computer skills,
management, customer focus and responsiveness.
DUTIES : Design: Supervise and produce designs according to client specifications and
within limits of production capability. Production: Conduct quality assurance of
produced objects, produce projects with material and equipment according to
job specification and recognized standards. Maintenance: Inspect equipment
and / or facilities for technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according
to standards. Test repair equipment and / or facilities against specification.
Quality assured service and maintained equipment. Perform administrative
and related functions: Update register of maintained and repaired faults.
Compile and submit reports, Ensure adherence to safety standards,
requirements and regulations. Human and capital resource management:
Supervise and mentor staff. Planning of resources. Scheduling of works.
Maintain and advance expertise: continuous individual development to keep
up with new technologies and procedures. Research/Literature studies on
technical/engineering technology to improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L. Magqaza at 069 007 4868/ Mr Z. Tana at 064 754 8464, e-recruitment
Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Mr. M. Mavotsho at 083 753 9381/Mr. M. Tshwaku at 083 753 9381, e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
for Mount Ayliff posts: Ms O. Mailula at 060 979 3691 / Ms N. Gcabi at 060 979
3691, e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Fort Beaufort Depot: (Preference will be given to African Male)
Maluti Depot: (Preference will be given to Youth Coloured Female with
Disability and Youth Indian Female)
Straundale Depot: (Preference will be given to White Male)
Steynburg Depot: (Preference will be given to African Female)
109
Mount Fletcher Depot: (Preference will be given to African Female)
POST 27/108 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT OFFICER: LOSS CONTROL: FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPWI 34/07/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : Matric, National Diploma (NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Public
Administration, Internal Auditing, Accounting / Financial Management with 1-2
years in Supply Chain Management or finance (Compliance, Internal Audit,
Loss Control and Risk). Knowledge and Skills: Public Administration, Public
Service Legislation, Internal control and risk management framework, Supply
Chain Management Framework, Communication, Reporting Skills, Computer
Literacy, High ethical standards, confidentiality and integrity.
DUTIES : Loss Identification and Recording, receive cases of losses and theft from
Departmental Official, Capture and record loss incidents on relevant registers
and systems, Maintain accurate and up-to-date loss control and recovery
records. Support in Loss Investigation, Assist with preliminary loss
investigations and fact finding, Collect supporting documentation and evidence
related to loss cases, Prepare working papers and basic investigation
summaries for review, Submission of documents to management and
committees, Ensure proper filing and document control in line with public sector
requirements, Loss Prevention and Awareness, Support awareness initiatives
on loss prevention and internal controls, Assist in monitoring corrective actions
implemented to prevent recurrence of losses, Escalate matters to supervisors
in a timely and professional manner.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L. Magqaza at 069 007 4868/ Mr Z. Tana at 064 754 8464
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth African Male.
POST 27/109 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT OFFICER: ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT
(X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bisho Ref No: DPWI 35/07/2026 (X2 Posts)
Mount Ayliff Ref No: DPWI 36/07/2026
Gqeberha Ref No: DPWI 37/07/2026
Queenstown Ref No: DPWI 38/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/ National Diploma in SCM/Logistics/ Cost &
Management Accounting/ Financial Accounting/Financial Information System
(NQF Level 06) with 1-2 years’ experience in Acquisition Management. A valid
driver’s license. Knowledge and Skills: National Treasury Prescripts and
Circulars, Provincial Treasury Prescripts and Circulars, SCM Delegations,
Policies and Prescripts, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations of 2016,
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Applicable Legislation and
Prescripts, CIBD, BBBEE, PPPFA, Policies and Procedures. Good
Communication Skills (verbal & written), Computer Literate, Planning and
Organising.
DUTIES : Render acquisition services, Compile the request for quotation documents,
Verify registration of service providers identified on LOGIS, Execute the bidding
/ quotation process, Publish tender invitations., Send request for quotation
documents to the identified service providers, Receive and open bid / quotation
documents, Print CSD report, Check compliance, completeness and accuracy
of documents received. Evaluate quotations received in line with SCM
prescripts and make recommendations, Publish tender award where
applicable, Conduct compliance check on documentation, utilize standard
checklist to confirm policy compliance regarding quotes, Send complete
document for verification, Record the received quotation documents on the
quotation register for the end user to collect, Submit complete documentation
for further processing at Logistics Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S. Zazini at 066 489 6117 / Mr L Maliti at 066 489 6117, e-recruitment
Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
for Mount Ayliff posts: Ms O. Mailula at 060 979 3691 / Ms N. Gcabi at 060 979
3691, e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Ms. N. Ndawo at 083 627 2151 / Ms. S. Nenene at 083 627 2151 / Mr. S.
Mpumlwana at 083 627 2151, e-recruitment Technical Enquires: erecruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
110
Ms C. Bermoskie at 083 797 8135 / Mr. S.Damane at 083 797 8135, e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Bisho: (Preference will be given to Youth Indian Female and Youth White
Female)
Mount Ayliff: (Preference will be given to White Male with Disability)
Gqeberha: (Preference will be given to Coloured Male with Disability)
Queenstown: (Preference will be given to Youth White Male)
POST 27/110 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT OFFICER: ASSET MANAGEMENT (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bisho Ref No: DPWI 39/07/2026
Aliwal North Ref No: DPWI 40/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6 as recognised by
SAQA) in Supply Chain Management / Public Management/Public
Administration / Inventory Management / Logistics / Operations / Cost and
Management Accounting / Internal Audit with 1-2 relevant experience. A valid
driver’s licence. Knowledge and Skills: Sound knowledge and understanding
of pertinent policies relating to Movable Asset Management. National Treasury
Regulations, Supply Chain Management, PFMA, PPPFA Act and Regulations,
and Code of Conduct. Thorough knowledge and understanding of Standard
Charts of Accounts (SCOA) and applicable financial business systems (LOGIS
and BAS). Excellent verbal and written communication skills, problem solving,
analytical skills and computer literacy. An ability to handle
information. Personal Attributes: Clientele/customer relations skills, good
interpersonal skills; decision making skills; presentation skills (including report
writing), hard- working and highly motivated. Ability to work effectively and
efficiently under pressure. Willing to adapt to work schedule in accordance with
directorate’s requirements. Willing to work for long hours.
DUTIES : Barcode new assets and update on LOGIS system/spreadsheet. Track and
authorize movements of movable assets and make sure that it is captured on
LOGIS/spreadsheet. Conduct the regular spot checks and annual verification
of movable assets and other satellite offices. Maintenance and updating of the
movable Assets Register on LOGIS/spreadsheet. Manage disposals of assets
and keep record of redundant, unserviceable and obsolete assets. Manage the
repairs process of movable assets. Coordinate inputs for all audit queries within
specified time frames. Conduct monthly asset register audit and correct all
discrepancies within specified time frame. Interact with Asset Controllers with
regards to asset management. Check and verify request forms if SCOA
allocations and ICN’s are correct when procuring assets. Perform monthly
reconciliation of assets between BAS and LOGIS.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S. Zazini at 066 489 6117 / Mr L Maliti at 066 489 6117, e-recruitment
Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Mr. M. Mavotsho at 083 753 9381/Mr. M. Tshwaku at 083 753 9381, e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Bisho: (Preference will be given to White Male)
Aliwal North: (Preference will be given to Youth African Male)
POST 27/111 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT OFFICER: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DPWI 41/07/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Queenstown
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6 as recognised by
SAQA) in Supply Chain Management/Public Management/Public
Administration/Logistics/Cost & Management Accounting with 1-2 years’
relevant experience. A valid Driver’s license. Knowledge and Skills: National
Treasury prescripts and circulars, Provincial Treasury Prescripts and Circulars,
SCM Delegations, Policies and Prescripts, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations of 2016, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Applicable
Legislation and Prescripts, CIBD, BBBEE, PPPFA, Policies and Procedures
People Management, Report Writing, Computer Literacy, Negotiation,
Communication, Information Management, Presentation, Analytical, Budget
and Financial Management, Motivational, Conflict Resolution / Problem
Solving, KPA’S Render demand management services: Verify correctness and
111
completeness of documents submitted, select service providers on CSD
(threshold below R30 000), Verify specifications.
DUTIES : Compile Tender Documents; Check compliance on submitted documents and
issue SCMU number, Review tender documents, Place adverts for tenders,
maintain tender register and compile monthly reports on bids advertised,
Render secretariat duties, receive requests from programs and draft an
agenda, inform members for bid specification committee sitting, Review
corrections and advertise on relevant media, Attend briefing sessions where
applicable and record minutes. Render administrative functions; Open file for
each project approved, copy all documents per checklist, Record and submit
to Acquisitions, Record requests; Verify supporting documents, records all
request in the incoming register and submit to Acquisitions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Ndawo at 083 627 2151 / Ms. S. Nenene at 083 627 2151 / Mr. S.
Mpumlwana at 083 627 2151
e-recruitment Technical Enquires: erecruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Indian Female.
POST 27/112 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT OFFICER: LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT
REF NO: DPWI 42/07/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6 as recognised by
SAQA) in Supply Chain Management/Public Management/Public
Administration/Logistics/Cost and Management Accounting with 1-2 relevant
experience. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and Skills: PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, National Treasury Regulations. Planning and Organising. Good
interpersonal relation skills. Presentation skills. Computer Literacy. Problem
Solving skills.
DUTIES : Supervise and undertake logistical support services. Check, place and verify
orders for goods. Receive and verify goods from suppliers. Capture and ensure
that goods are captured in registers and database. Receive requests for goods
from end users. Issue goods to end users. Check and maintain goods registers.
Update and ensure the maintenance of the register of suppliers. Supervise
human resources. Allocate and ensure quality of work. Personnel
development. Assess staff performance. Apply discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S. Zazini at 066 489 6117 / Mr L Maliti at 066 489 6117
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth Coloured Male.
POST 27/113 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT OFFICER: RISK AND SCM
PERFORMANCE REF NO: DPWI 43/07/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Bisho
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/ National Diploma) NQF level 6 as recognized by
SAQA) in Supply Chain Management / Public Management / Public
Administration / Logistics / Cost and Management Accounting / Internal
Auditing. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge and Skills: Treasury regulations.
PFMA. Compliance policies & procedures. SCM Policies. Public Service Act,
1994. Public Service Regulations 2001. Public Finance Management Act,
1999. Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, 5 of 2000. Performance
management principles. Stakeholder and customer relationship management
principles. Planning and organizing. Creative thinking. Self-management.
Problem analysis.
DUTIES : Conduct compliance on supply chain management legislation. Check if terms
of reference are in line with regulating policy prescripts. Assist in evaluating bid
processes to ensure adherence to prescripts. Attend to tender briefings and
give guidance. Receive complaints on terms of reference and acknowledge
thereof. Conduct SCM risk management and advice on internal controls. Assist
in evaluating the capabilities of service providers. Assist to Investigate the
legitimacy of service providers. Responsible for loss control on fixed assets
and consumable stores. Register all cases of lost assets and consumables
Assist to investigate the circumstances thereof. Make follow up on criminal
procedures where required. Supervise the allocated resources. Maintain high
standards by ensuring that the team / section produces excellent work in terms
of quality / quantity and timeliness. Resolve problems of motivation and control
112
with minimum guidance from manager. Delegate functions to staff based on
individual potential provide the necessary guidance and support and afford
staff adequate training and development opportunities. Ensure timeously
development of job description and implementation of Work Plans and
Personal Development Plans (PDP’s) for all employees in the Sub-directorate.
Manage daily employee performance and ensure timely Performance
Assessments of all subordinates. Ensure management, maintenance and
safekeeping of assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S. Zazini at 066 489 6117 / Mr L Maliti at 066 489 6117
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to African Male.
POST 27/114 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mthatha Ref No: DPWI 44/07/2025
Queenstown Ref No: DPWI 45/07/2025
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma (NQF Level 6 as recognized by
SAQA) in Records Management/ Public Management/ Human Resource
Management with 1-2 years’ experience in records management/ HR registry
environment. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge and Skills: Customer service.
Relevant Government policies and Directives. Public Service Regularity
Framework. Report writing. Negotiation. Interpersonal relations.
Communication. Facilitation. Computer literacy. Attention to detail.
Presentation. Working in a team. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work
as a team and alone. Ability to handle correspondence. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Competencies: Professional Ethics.
Information management. Time management. Programme and project
management. Ability to work with limited supervision. Taking initiative.
Contribute positively to the core values and ethics of the department.
DUTIES : Maintain efficient and effective record keeping and file management.
Implement and maintain the electronic records management system. Ensure
that the file plan is up to date in line with changes of the department. Keep
control over filing to prevent unnecessary duplicates or bulky items from being
placed on files. Custody and safe keeping of register of files opened.
Destruction register and register authorities. Responsible for closure of records
and tracing of records. Dispatching of outgoing items/ correspondence. Direct
supervision and in-service training of registry personnel. Ensure proper
archiving documents. Ensure that all files comply with NIMR Requirements.
ENQUIRIES : for Mthatha posts: Ms. V Potelwa at 047 564 8011/ Mr. V. Sokhahleleka at 072
567 2584, e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
for CH: Queenstown: Ms. N. Ndawo at 083 627 2151 / Ms. S. Nenene at 083
627 2151 / Mr. S. Mpumlwana 083 627 2151
NOTE : Mthatha: (Preference will be given to Coloured Male)
Queenstown: (Preference will be given to Youth Indian Male)
POST 27/115 : WORKS INSPECTOR: MECHANICAL REF NO: DPWI 60/07/2026
SALARY : R280 278 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Queenstown
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate, National Diploma NQF level 6 in Mechanical
Engineering (T/N/S Streams) OR N3 and passed trade test Mechanical within
built environment), OR Registration as an Engineering Technician
(Mechanical). 1-2 years’ relevant experience. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge and Skills: Buildings Regulations, Quality Control of all buildings
works, Management of people. Risk. Change and promotion of teamwork. OHS
Act. Good Verbal, written and communication Skills. Conflict Management
skills. Computer literacy. Client orientation and customer focus skills. Report
writing skills. Self-Management.
DUTIES : Conduct Inspections or maintenance on work undertaken on project sites to
ensure that it is being done in compliance with all relevant regulations and
legislation and that proper quality control is being maintained. Compile an
estimate of repairs and costs for minor new work and maintenance work to be
undertaken. Maintain an electronic record system for work being done and
work that was finalized. Develop progress reports on outstanding and finalised
113
work. Advice and guide contractors in respect of the compliance to legislation
and procedures. Inspect work documents by contractors to determine whether
it is in compliance with all relevant prescribed standards. Compile and process
variation orders and requests for the extension of deadlines. Compile payment
documents. Ensure effective contract administration. Timeous development of
reports on problems emanating from projects. Gather and submit information
in terms of the expanded public works programme (EPW). Develop and
interpret plans and sketches. Draw up quotation documents and compile
specifications, bills of quantities and bid documents. Participate in the
adjudication process and provide recommendations quotations. Liaise with
relevant stakeholders in respect of technical aspects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Ndawo at 083 627 2151 / Ms. S. Nenene at 083 627 2151 / Mr. S.
Mpumlwana 083 627 2151, e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to White Female.
POST 27/116 : ARTISAN CARPENTRY: GRADE A: MAINTENANCE (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : East London Depot Ref No: DPWI 46/07/2026
Port ST Johns Depot Ref No: DPWI 47/07/2026
Cofimvaba Depot Ref No: DPWI 48/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate (Carpentry). A valid driver’s license. General
Knowledge: Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act. Project
Coordination, Technical Design and Analysis Knowledge, Research and
development. Technical Competencies: Technical design and analysis
knowledge, technical report writing, technical consulting, computer aided
technical applications, knowledge of legal compliance, production process
knowledge and skills, teamwork, interpersonal skills, communication skills.
problem solving and analysis, decision making, planning & organizing,
computer skills, management, customer focus and responsiveness.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specifications and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and equipment
according to job specification and recognized standards. Quality assurance of
produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/ or facilities for
technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according to standards. Test
repair equipment and/or facilities against specification. Quality assured
serviced and maintained equipment. Perform administrative and related
functions: Update register of maintained and repaired faults. Compile and
submit reports. Keep and maintain job record. Provide input into operational
plans. Supervise and mentor staff. Maintain expertise: continuous individual
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : for Mthatha posts: Ms. V Potelwa Tel No: (047) 564 8011/ Mr. V. Sokhahleleka
at 072 567 2584, e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Mr. L. Magqaza at 069 007 4868/ Mr Z. Tana at 064 754 8464, e-recruitment
Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Ms. N. Ndawo at 083 627 2151 / Ms. S. Nenene at 083 627 2151 / Mr. S.
Mpumlwana 083 627 2151, e-recruitment Technical Enquires: erecruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : East London Depot: (Preference will be given to Coloured Female)
Port ST Johns Depot: (Preference will be given to African Female)
Cofimvaba Depot: (Preference will be given to White Female)
POST 27/117 : ARTISAN BRICKLAYING: GRADE A MAINTENANCE (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Idutywa Depot Ref No: DPWI 49/07/2026
East London Depot Ref No: DPWI 50/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate (Bricklaying). A valid driver’s license.
General Knowledge: Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act. Project
Coordination, Technical Design and Analysis Knowledge, Research and
development. Technical Competencies: Technical design and analysis
knowledge, technical report writing, technical consulting, computer aided
technical applications, knowledge legal compliance, production process
knowledge and skills, teamwork, interpersonal skills, communication skills.
114
problem solving and analysis, decision making, Planning & Organizing,
computer skills, management, customer focus and responsiveness.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specifications and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and equipment
according to job specification and recognized standards. Quality assurance of
produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/ or facilities for
technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according to standards. Test
repair equipment and/or facilities against specification. Quality assured
serviced and maintained equipment. Perform administrative and related
functions: Update register of maintained and repaired faults. Compile and
submit reports. Keep and maintain job record. Provide input into operational
plans. Supervise and mentor staff. Maintain expertise: continuous individual
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L. Magqaza at 069 007 4868/ Mr Z. Tana at 064 754 8464, e-recruitment
Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Idutywa Depot: (Preference will be given to Coloured Female)
East London Depot: (Preference will be given to Youth African Male)
POST 27/118 : ARTISAN PAINTING: GRADE A MAINTENANCE REF NO: DPWI 51/07/2026
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Libode Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate (painting) with valid driver’s license. General
Knowledge: Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act. Project
Coordination, Technical Design and Analysis Knowledge, Research and
development. Technical Competencies: Technical design and analysis
knowledge, technical report writing, technical consulting, computer aided
technical applications, knowledge legal compliance, production process
knowledge and skills, teamwork, interpersonal skills, communication skills.
problem solving and analysis, decision making, Planning & Organizing,
computer skills, management, customer focus and responsiveness.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specifications and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and equipment
according to job specification and recognized standards. Quality assurance of
produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/ or facilities for
technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according to standards. Test
repair equipment and/or facilities against specification. Quality assured service
and maintained equipment. Perform administrative and related functions:
Update register of maintained and repaired faults. Compile and submit reports.
Keep and maintain job record. Provide input into operational plans. Supervise
and mentor staff. Maintain expertise: continuous individual development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. V Potelwa Tel No: (040) 564 8011/ Mr. V. Sokhahleleka at 072 567 2584
e-recruitment Technical Enquires: erecruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to African Male.
POST 27/119 : ARTISAN ELECTRICAL: GRADE A MAINTENANCE (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mthatha Depot Ref No: DPWI 52/07/2026
Butterworh Depot Ref No: DPWI 53/07/2026
Graafreinet Depot Ref No: DPWI 54/07/2026
Mount Fletcher Depot Ref No: DPWI 55/07/2026
Straundale Depot Ref No: DPWI 56/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate (electrical) with valid driver’s license.
General Knowledge: Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act. Project
Coordination, Technical Design and Analysis Knowledge, Research and
development. Technical Competencies: Technical design and analysis
knowledge, technical report writing, technical consulting, computer aided
technical applications, legal compliance, production process knowledge and
skills, teamwork, interpersonal skills, communication skills. problem solving
and analysis, decision making, Planning & Organizing, computer skills,
management, customer focus and responsiveness.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specifications and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and equipment
according to job specification and recognized standards. Quality assurance of
produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/ or facilities for
115
technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according to standards. Test
repair equipment and/or facilities against specification. Quality assured service
and maintained equipment. Perform administrative and related functions:
Update register of maintained and repaired faults. Compile and submit reports.
Keep and maintain job record. Provide input into operational plans. Supervise
and mentor staff. Maintain expertise: continuous individual development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. V Potelwa Tel No: (047) 564 8011/ Mr. V. Sokhahleleka at 072 567 2584,
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Mr. L. Magqaza at 069 007 4868/ Mr Z. Tana at 064 754 8464, e-recruitment
Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Mr. M. Mavotsho at 083 753 9381/Mr. M. Tshwaku at 083 753 9381, e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Ms C. Bermoskie at 083 797 8135 / Mr. S.Damane at 083 797 8135, e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Mthatha Depot: (Preference will be given to Youth White Male)
Butterworh Depot: (Preference will be given to Youth, African Female with
Disability)
Graafreinet Depot: (Preference will be given to Coloured Female)
Mount Fletcher Depot: (Preference will be given to African Female)
Straundale Depot: (Preference will be given to Youth, Coloured Male)
POST 27/120 : ARTISAN AIR CONDITIONING: GRADE A: MAINTENANCE REF NO: DPWI
57/07/2026
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Mthatha Depot
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate (Air conditioning). A valid driver’s license.
General Knowledge: Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act. Project
Coordination, Technical Design and Analysis Knowledge, Research and
development. Technical Competencies: Technical design and analysis
knowledge, technical report writing, technical consulting, computer aided
technical applications, legal compliance, production process knowledge and
skills, teamwork, interpersonal skills, communication skills. problem solving
and analysis, decision making, Planning & Organizing, computer skills,
management, customer focus and responsiveness.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specifications and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and equipment
according to job specification and recognized standards. Quality assurance of
produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/ or facilities for
technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according to standards. Test
repair equipment and/or facilities against specification. Quality assured service
and maintained equipment. Perform administrative and related functions:
Update register of maintained and repaired faults. Compile and submit reports.
Keep and maintain job record. Provide input into operational plans. Supervise
and mentor staff. Maintain expertise: continuous individual development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. V Potelwa Tel No: (047) 564 8011/ Mr. V. Sokhahleleka at 072 567 2584
e-recruitment Technical Enquires: erecruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth African Female.
POST 27/121 : ARTISAN PLUMBING: GRADE A: MAINTENANCE (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Graafreinet Depot Ref No: DPW 58/07/2026
Straundale Depot Ref No: DPWI 59/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Trade Test Certificate. A valid driver’s license. General Knowledge:
Public Service Regulations, Public Service Act. Project Coordination, Technical
Design and Analysis Knowledge, Research and development. Technical
Competencies: Technical design and analysis knowledge, technical report
writing, technical consulting, computer aided technical applications, legal
compliance, production process knowledge and skills, teamwork, interpersonal
skills, communication skills. problem solving and analysis, decision making,
Planning & Organizing, computer skills, management, customer focus and
responsiveness.
DUTIES : Design: Produce designs according to client specifications and within limits of
production capability. Production: Produce objects with material and equipment
116
according to job specification and recognized standards. Quality assurance of
produced objects. Maintenance: Inspect equipment and/ or facilities for
technical faults. Repair equipment and facilities according to standards. Test
repair equipment and/or facilities against specification. Quality assured service
and maintained equipment. Perform administrative and related functions:
Update register of maintained and repaired faults. Compile and submit reports.
Keep and maintain job record. Provide input into operational plans. Supervise
and mentor staff. Maintain expertise: continuous individual development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Bermoskie at 083 797 8135 / Mr. S.Damane at 083 797 8135, e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Graafreinet Depot: (Preference will be given to Youth Coloured Male)
Straundale Depot: (Preference will be given to Youth White Male)
POST 27/122 : HR CLERK: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bisho Ref No: DPWI 61/07/2026
Aliwal North Ref No: DPWI 62/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience required. Knowledge & Skills:
Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Batho Pele Principles, Interpersonal
skills, Problem Solving and Organizing skills. Decision Making and Conflict
Resolution skills; Written and Oral Communication skills; Demonstrate the
ability to use the following IT Software: MS Office Package (MS Word, MS
Excel, MS Outlook and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Human Resource Provisioning Services. Process advertising of positions,
recruitment, selection and filling of positions. Process validation of
qualifications. Process assumption of duties. Process issuing letters of
appointment contracts. Process confirmation of probation appointments.
Process personnel utilization through transfers, translations in rank,
promotions and secondments.
ENQUIRIES : for Bhisho posts: Ms S. Zazini at 066 489 6117 / Mr L Maliti at 066 489 6117,
e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Mr. M. Mavotsho at 083 753 9381/Mr. M. Tshwaku at 083 753 9381, e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Bisho: (Preference will be given to White Male)
Aliwal North: (Preference will be given to African Male with Disability)
POST 27/123 : HR CLERK: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Queenstown Ref No: DPWI 63/07/2026 (X2 Posts)
Gqeberha Ref No: DPWI 64/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience required. Knowledge and Skills:
Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Batho Pele Principles Interpersonal,
Problem Solving and organizing skills. Decision Making and Conflict Resolution
skills; Written and Oral Communication skills; Demonstrate the ability to use
the following IT Software: MS Office Package (MS Word, MS Excel, MS
Outlook and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Execute functions relating to: Conditions of service for DPWI and Public
Service staff, e.g. Leave administration. Rendering an exit management
service. Render general administrative duties regarding service benefits.
General administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Bermoskie at 083 797 8135 / Mr. S.Damane at 083 797 8135, e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Ms. N. Ndawo at 083 627 2151 / Ms. S. Nenene at 083 627 2151 / Mr. S.
Mpumlwana 083 627 2151, e-recruitment Technical Enquires: erecruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Queenstown: (Preference will be given to Youth White Male and Youth African
Male)
Gqeberha: (Preference will be given to Youth White Male with Disability)
POST 27/124 : ADMIN CLERK: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Aliwal North Ref No: DPWI 65/07/2026 (X3 Posts)
117
Mount Alyiff Ref No: DPWI 66/07/2026 (X2 Posts)
East London Ref No: DPWI 67/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience required. Knowledge and Skills:
EPWP phase 3 guidelines, National Development Plan, Ministerial
Determination, Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Act No.108 of
1996, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Computer literacy skills, Diagnostic
skills, Analytical skills, Problem solving skills; Policy development skills.
DUTIES : Office support, organize venue for meetings, bookings, attend to incoming and
outgoing correspondence, Writing of minutes, Procurement of accommodation
and catering, Arrange transport, Filling, Compile and consolidation of
spreadsheet for Appointment and Payment of Participants, Capturing of
Participants contracts on system, Assist on distribution of Participants
protective clothing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L. Magqaza at 069 007 4868/ Mr Z. Tana at 064 754 8464, e-recruitment
Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
For Mount Ayliff posts: Ms O. Mailula at 060 979 3691 / Ms N. Gcabi at 060
979 3691, e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Mr. M. Mavotsho at 083 753 9381/Mr. M. Tshwaku at 083 753 9381, e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Aliwal North: (Preference will be given to African Male, Youth African Female
with Disability and Youth Coloured Male)
Mount Alyiff: (Preference will be given to Youth White Female, Indian Female)
East London: (Preference will be given to African Female)
POST 27/125 : ADMIN CLERK: CAPITAL WORKS (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : East London Depot Ref No: DPWI 68/07/2026
Graafreinet Depot Ref No: DPWI 69/07/2026
Libode Depot Ref No: DPWI 70/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate with no experience required.
DUTIES : Assist in rendering administrative support to the Unit, assist in collating and
compilation of Unit reports, and ensure the effective flow of information and
documents. Assist with the leave management of the Unit to assist the district.
Liaise with District for procurement processes. Ensure safe keeping of all
documentation in the office of the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C. Bermoskie at 083 797 8135 / Mr Damane at 083 797 8135, e-recruitment
Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Mr. L. Magqaza at 069 007 4868/ Mr Z. Tana at 064 754 8464, e-recruitment
Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
Ms. V Potelwa Tel No: (047) 564 8011/ Mr. V. Sokhahleleka at 072 567 2584,
e-recruitment Technical Enquires: erecruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : East London Depot: (Preference will be given to Youth, African Male)
Graafreinet Depot: (Preference will be given to Youth, Indian Female with
Disability)
Libode Depot: (Preference will be given to Youth, Indian Male with Disability)
POST 27/126 : ADMIN CLERK: DISTRICT COORDINATION: EPWP REF NO: DPWI
71/07/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mount Ayliff
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge: Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA); Prescripts; DORA, PEPs, Public Service
Regulations, BBBEE Act, EPWP Policy. EPWP phase 3 guidelines National
Development Plan. Ministerial Determination. Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa, Act No.108 of 1996.Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Computer literacy skills. Diagnostic skills. Analytical skills. Problem solving
skills. Policy development skills.
DUTIES : Office Support-Organize venue for meetings, and bookings. Attend to incoming
and outgoing correspondence. Writing of minutes. Liaise with Public bodies
regarding general administrative-related issues. Provide support to the
secretariat for the functional steering committees in accordance with EPWP
norms & standards. Facilitate the Data capturing of DPW&I and Public Bodies
in the EPWPRS -Liaise and engage with Municipalities and Public Bodies
within the O.R Tambo Region. Verify information for accuracy, compliance, and
118
completeness. Execute the filling system for the unit. Conduct monthly
monitoring of information captured versus information in the system.
Implementation of Performance Information-Conduct site verification visits to
check compliance with EPWP guidelines and information captured in the
EPWP RS. Collections of Attendance and Payment Registers Copies,
Employment Contracts of Participants. Conduct file verification of DPWI
Projects. Check compliance of information and create a compliance template
for each project. Create individual files for each EPWP Project. Procurement
Service to EPWP Directorate- Facilitate the Shifting of funds and monitor
Budget to prevent under- and overspending. Execution of a procurement
system for accommodation, venues, stationery, fuel claims, and other goods
and services for the programme. Control of procurement process to ensure that
all documentation and signatures are correct. Control and ensure that Incurred
Expenditure is kept up to date.
ENQUIRIES : for Mount Ayliff posts: Ms O. Mailula at 060 979 3691 / Ms N. Gcabi at 060 979
3691, e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth, Coloured Male.
POST 27/127 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: LOSS CONTROL REF NO: DPWI
72/07/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mount Ayliff
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. No experience required. Knowledge &
Skills: Public Service Regulations, 2001 as amended, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Act no
108 of 1996, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Broad-
Based black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE), Public Administration, Public
Services Legislation, Management of diversity, Supply Chain Management
Framework. Communication, Teamwork, Reliability.
DUTIES : The utilization of LOGIS module to generate Commitment: Authorize
requisitions on selection RQAT, Teamwork on approved on Logis and provision
advise generated. Render logistical support services: Place orders for goods,
Receive goods from supplies, Capture goods in registers databases, Receive
request for goods from end users, Maintain goods register, Update and
maintain register of suppliers. Reconciling requisition to orders: Ensure that the
requisition captured on Procurement Integration, Ensure that information is
correctly captured, Ensure that the captured allocations, is according to the
Budget (BAS report), Verify if the correct supplier is captured and the approved
quotation, Receive and return of Goods and Services: The commitments are
kept in the 0-9 file awaiting on delivery, Upon delivery, services are confirmed
to be rendered, Receipt and issuing on the Logis system are captured and
verified, Documents are recorded on a register, and forward to payments.
ENQUIRIES : for Mount Ayliff posts: Ms O. Mailula at 060 979 3691 / Ms N. Gcabi at 060 979
3691, e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth, Coloured Male.
POST 27/128 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: RECONCILIATION REF NO: DPWI 73/07/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. No Experience required. Knowledge &
Skills: National Archives guide and Record Service, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act. Batho Pele Principles. Department Policy occupational health
and safety. Public Finance Management Act. Legislative Requirement: COIDA.
Public Service Act. PFMA and National Treasury Regulations. Public Service
Act. Public Service Regulations. Skills: Verbal and written Communication.
Interpersonal relation Problem solving. Organizing skills.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services: Attend to clients. Handle telephone and other
enquiries received. Receive and register hand delivered mail / files. Handle
incoming and outgoing correspondence: Receive all mail. Sort, register and
dispatch mail. Distribute notices on registry issues. Render effective filing and
record management services: Opening and closing files according to record
classification system. Filing / storage, tracing (electronically/manually) and
retrieval of documents and files. Complete index cards for all files. Operate
office machines in relation to the registry function: Open and maintain franking
machine register. Frank post, record money and update register daily.
119
Undertake spot checks on post to ensure no private post is included. Lock post
in postbag for messengers to deliver to Post Office. Open and maintain
remittance register. Record all valuable articles as prescribed in the remittance
register. Hand delivers and signs over remittances to finance. Send wrong
remittances back to sender via registered post and record reference number in
register. Keep daily record of number of letters franked. Process documents for
archiving and / disposal: Electronic scanning files. Sort and packages files for
archives and distribution. Compile list of all documents to be archived and
submit to the supervisor. Keep records for archived documents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. V Potelwa at 047 564 8011/ Mr. V. Sokhahleleka at 072 567 2584, e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth, Coloured Female with Disability.
POST 27/129 : ADMIN CLERK: MONITORING AND EVALUATION: EPWP REF NO: DPWI
74/07/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Aliwal North
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate or NQF Level 4. No experience Required.
Knowledge and Skills: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) DORA, PEPs,
Public Service Regulations, BBBEE Act, EPWP Policy. Stakeholder
Engagement; Financial Management, Policy Implementation. People
Management, Process implementation, customer and quality management,
Problem solving skills, Strategic capability and leadership, Self-leadership,
Communication skills, Computer skills, Planning and Organization Skills,
Programme and project management, Negotiation and Presentation Skills.
DUTIES : Assist in evaluating the number of Public Bodies reporting on EPWP within the
region: Assist in the implementation of IG project lists and other grants projects
from the public bodies. Assist in expenditure of Integrated Grants. Prepare
project file for completeness. Monitor the number of monthly file completeness
report. Prepare reports for sector and district meetings. Monitor sector and
district Resolutions. Consolidate and submit reports. Identify gaps and liaise
with EPWP Coordinators. Resolve problems of motivation and control with
minimum guidance from manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M. Mavotsho at 083 753 9381/Mr. M. Tshwaku at 083 753 9381, e-
recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to African Male with Disability.
POST 27/130 : DATA CAPTURER: INNOVATION AND EMPOWERMENT: EPWP REF NO:
DPWI 75/07/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mount Ayliff
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate or NQF Level 4. No experience Required.
Knowledge and Skills: EPWP phase 3 / 5 guidelines, National Development
Plan, Ministerial Determination, EPWP recruitment guidelines, Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa, Act No.108 of 1996, Skills Development Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Good verbal and written communication,
Computer skills, Teamwork, Flexibility, Problem solving, Conflict management.
DUTIES : Office support; Capture data from available records into the required formats
e.g. databases, table, spreadsheet, submit data, verify query missing data and
errors observed during data entry, Review and validate all data from the
records, Update registers and statistics, Make regular backups of data, Provide
information to components, Keep and maintain records and files, Ensure
records and files are properly sorted and secured.
ENQUIRIES : for Mount Ayliff posts: Ms O. Mailula at 060 979 3691 / Ms N. Gcabi at 060 979
3691, e-recruitment Technical Enquiries: e-recruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth, Indian Male with Disability.
POST 27/131 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: DPWI 77/07/2026
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Queenstown
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate. Basic security officer’s course. Grade C registration
with PSIRA. No experience required. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of the
access control procedure Knowledge of measures of control and movement of
equipment & stores Prescribes security procedures e.g MIS, NISA, Protection
120
of Information Act, Emergency Procedures. Communication skills, Read and
write.
DUTIES : Perform access control functions Determine appointments/ or services that the
visitors require Contact relevant employee to confirm appointment or refer
visitor to the relevant service delivery point Complete or ensure that the
admission control register is completed Issue admission control
documents/cards as required Escort visitors to relevant employees/venues
where Lock and unlock entrances Ensure that unauthorized persons and
dangerous objects do not enter the building/premises Follow-up on incidence
Undertake building/premises patrols Identify and check doors are locked or
unlocked as required Check water leaks and that taps are closed Identify and
check fire hazards, exposed electrical contacts and other fire hazards Check
lights, switch on and off as required Check suspicious objects and packages
and report Apply emergency procedures Ensure safe keeping of equipment,
documents and stores of the Department Complete registers to control the
movement of equipment, stores and documents Confirm that no equipment,
stores and assets of the department leave the building/premises unauthorized
Inspect vehicles entering and leaving the premises Gather information and
report on missing and stolen equipment and stores Handle documents at points
of entry according to classification and the prescript.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Ndawo at 083 627 2151 / Ms. S. Nenene at 083 627 2151 / Mr. S.
Mpumlwana 083 627 2151, e-recruitment Technical Enquires: erecruitment-
bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth, African Female.
POST 27/132 : MESSENGER REF NO: DPWI 77/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Queenstown
REQUIREMENTS : ABET Level 4 or NQF Level 1. No experience required. Knowledge & Skills:
Knowledge of general work and cleaning services. Communication skills. Be
able to read and write.
DUTIES : Render effective messenger services Collect and deliver mail to/from the Post
Office and other postal/courier services. Collect, sort, and distribute mail and
documents from the various institutional components. Collect and deliver
documentation and related items in the department or other departments. Keep
register of documentation received and delivered. Distribute internal,
departmental, and national circulars. Ensure that where applicable, an
acknowledgement of receipt is signed for parcels, mail, correspondence, and
circulars that are delivered. Prepare packages/parcels for dispatch by the
courier or postal service. Copy, shredding and binding of documents. Perform
or assist with any other duties assigned within the registry.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Ndawo at 0458076676 / Ms. S. Nenene at 0458076677 / Mr. S. Gongqa
at 083 627 2151
e-recruitment Technical Enquires: erecruitment-bhisho@ecdpw.gov.za
NOTE : Preference will be given to Youth, Indian Female.
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, RECREATION, ARTS AND CULTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted via one of the following options: directing to a
specific relevant centre:
Head Office: Qonce: Enquiries – Ms. S. Mpafa Tel No: (043) 492 1405 / Mrs.
R. E. Swartbooi Tel: 043 492 0949 / Mr. M. Cezula 043 492 1400 / Ms. S.
Cetywayo 043 492 0936 Hand deliver to: No. 5 Eales Street, Wilton Zimasile
Mkwayi Building, Qonce, 5605.
OR Tambo District: Attention Mr. S. Stuma / Ms. T. Mngoma Tel: 047 495 0853
Hand deliver to: Human Resource Management, 49 Victoria Street, Mthatha
Reference Library, Mthatha, 5099.
Amathole District: Enquiries Mr. B. Mbangatha / Mr. M. Mboniswa Tel: 043
492 1838 /1839Hand deliver to: No 16 Commissioner Street, Old Elco Building,
Ku-Gompo City, 5201.
Albany Museum: Makanda: Enquiries. Dr. P. Cimi – 046 622 2312 (Makanda)
Hand deliver to 40 Somerset Street, Makanda.
Amathole Museum: Qonce: Enquiries. Ms. S. Cakata – 043 642 4506
(Qonce) Hand deliver to Corner of Alexandra & Albert Roads, Qonce.
121
East London Museum: Ku-Gompo City Enquiries. G. Morcom / S. Lamati –
043 743 0686 – EL Museum (Ku-Gompo City) Hand deliver to 319 Oxford
Street, Belgravia, Ku-Gompo City.
Bayworld Museum: Gqeberha Enquiries. V. Ketelo – 041 584 0650 –
Bayworld Museum (Gqeberha) Hand deliver to Beach Road & Brookes Hill
Drive, Humewood, Gqeberha.
Chris Hani District: Attention Mr. T. Thomas / Ms. A. Phanya: 045 492 0030 /
0054 Hand deliver to: Bathandwa Ndondo Building, Komani Hospital.
Nelson Mandela District: Attention Mr. S. Javu / Ms. T. Bosman / Ms. A.
Dyalvane: 041 492 1288 / 1232 / 1230 Hand deliver to: 66 Corporate Place,
Ring Road, Greenacres, Newton Park, Gqeberha.
Alfred Nzo District: Attention Mr M.B. Gugwana / Ms. T. Ntsevu: 039 492 0297
Hand deliver to: No 67 Church Street Mt Ayliff.
Sarah Baartman District: Attention Ms. N. Qumza / Ms. N. Sandi: 046 492
0223 / 0228 Hand deliver to: Registry, 1st floor, Corner African and Milner
Street, Makanda.
Applicants are encouraged to use e-recruitment system. People with
disabilities who meet the requirements will be given preference. The e-
Recruitment System is available 24/7 and closes at 23:59 on the closing date.
To report any e-recruitment system challenges send an email with your (i) ID
Number, (ii) profile email address, (iii) details of your issue to:
erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za. Do not send any applications to this email
address; should you do so, your applications/CV will be regarded as lost and
will not be considered. Technical support is limited to working hours: (08:00-
16:30 Mon-Thursday and 08:00-16:00 on Friday). NB: Direct any enquiries to
the relevant enquiries’ person as provided under each position.
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a duly completed New Z83 form (effective
from 01 January 2021), e-Recruitment System automatically generates Z83
immediately you press apply and generate Z83. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents upon application
but must submit a fully completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae. NB:
Z83 in the e-recruitment system is currently not signable; so, applicants who
submitted applications via the e-recruitment system will not be disqualified for
an unsigned Z83 instead will be requested to sign on/or before the interview
day. View the list of the positions you applied for on “My Job Applications” and
do note that the system Z83 does not reflect work experience and
qualifications, however, every detail of your information does reflect to the
Recruitment team. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications, and other relevant documents (like a copy of
Permanent Resident Permit for Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
Holders to HR on or before the interview date. Failure to submit all the required
documents will disqualify the application. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Selected candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record check, qualification/ study verification and previous
employment verification). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
The Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic Managerial
Competency Assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of Competency-based Assessment. Successful candidates
will also be subjected to security clearance processes. Where applicable,
candidates will be subjected to a skills/ knowledge test. The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. Successful candidates
will be appointed on a probation period of twelve 12/24 months. It is the
objective to address the Employment Equity Affirmative Action Measures in line
with the Employment Equity Plan and to achieve equitable representation
across race and gender. The EE targets of the recruiting Department will be
adhered to although the applications are welcome from all racial groups. The
Recruiting Department reserves the right to amend/ review/ withdraw the
advertised posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well
served. (Females and People with Disabilities are also requested to apply and
122
indicate such in their applications). Misrepresentation in the application
documents will result in automatic disqualification and disciplinary action in the
event the candidate has already been appointed. SMS pre-entry certificate
(Nyukela) must be submitted prior appointment. All shortlisted candidates for
SMS posts will be subjected to technical exercises and interviews. Following
the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates
will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities,
behaviourally preferences, emotional intelligence and integrity. Successful
candidates will be appointed on a probation period of 12/24 months. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated Full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/133 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CULTURAL AFFAIRS REF NO: DSRAC 01/07/2026
SALARY : R1 554 696 – R1 858 821 per annum (Level 14). The package includes a basic
salary (70% of package), and flexible portion that may be structured in
accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Head Office (Qonce)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus an NQF level 7 qualification as recognized by
SAQA in Cultural Studies / Arts Management / Public Administration / Public
Management/ Management/ Library and Information Science/Archives &
Records Management/ Heritage & Museum studies/ Cultural Heritage
Management/ History/ Fine Arts/ Performing Arts. 5 years minimum experience
at senior managerial level. A successfully completed SMS pre-entry
programme Nyukela Certificate is required before appointment. Extensive
experience in a relevant managerial field. Experience in developing strategic
and business plans. Experience in government financial management.
Extensive knowledge and experience in Government policies and procedures.
Excellent communication and analytical skills. Extensive knowledge of Arts and
Culture, Libraries and Archives, Museums and Heritage as well as Language
Services are essential. Knowledge of and experience in sector needs and
business. Extensive knowledge in government prescripts, policies and
procedures. Willingness to work extra hours. Computer literacy with an
emphasis on Excel and PowerPoint. An independent worker, meeting
timeframes. Monitoring and managing compliance of the District with the
Statutory Bodies. Must be in possession of a valid code 08 driving licence. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. Knowledge & Skills: Sound understanding of basic accounting
principles (GRAP and Modified Cash Basis) and proven ability to apply them.
Knowledge of budget process, BAS, PERSAL and LOGIS∙ Have the ability to
perform independently and under pressure. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel and Outlook,
knowledge of Legislation, Regulations, Policies, Instructions, Practices, Public
Finance Management Act, Notes of the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) and National Treasury Regulations. SMS pre-entry certificate
(completed) is one of the minimum requirements for SMS positions as
indicated under paragraph 10.3 of the DPSA Directives as an online course on
www.thensg.gov.za. Excellent facilitation, research, negotiation, presentation,
project management, strategic planning and motivations skills.
DUTIES : Ensure provision of arts and culture services. Create and monitor environment
for development of performing arts. Create and monitor environment for
development of visual arts and crafts. Manage promotion and preservation of
culture and moral regeneration. Control and manage the function of art centres,
campsites and funding thereof. Ensure provision of museums and heritage
services. Manages the revitalization and development of museum services.
Monitor and coordinate the usage of heritage facilities. Manage and coordinate
the utilization of heritage institutions. Ensure provision of libraries and
information services. Monitor the delivery of efficient library and information
services. Oversee library awareness programs for development of community
libraries. Facilitate and manage the resource provision to the Municipality
libraries. Monitor the provision of archives and repository management
123
services. Facilitate and monitor the implementation of the budget of the library
infrastructure programs. Ensure provision of language development and
literature services. Facilitate and monitor provision of language development
and literature services in the province. Oversee provision of translation and
interpretation services. Manage and coordinate promotion of language
development and preservation. Manage and coordinate the development and
preservation of indigenous language. Promote Good Corporative Governance.
Employee Performance: Implementation and monitoring of the policy focused
priorities as pronounced in the Departmental Policy Speech. Promote
Intergovernmental Relations, Integrated Governance and Sound Stakeholder
Relationships. Facilitation of minimum information security standards (MISS
and overall accountability of the Department. Key Government Focus Areas:
Develop and implement an effective and efficient supply chain management
system. Support International and Regional Integration Programmes and
Commitments. Promote Diversity and Transformation Management Priorities.
Promote Integrated Governance. Auditor General; Focus on the measurement
of the extent of the departmental financial and legislative compliance. Ensure
no material findings on non-compliance with legislation. Ensure financial
statement is free from material misstatements. Organisational Performance:
Ensure development, implementation and review of Departmental Strategic
Imperatives. Focus on assessing the organisational performance based on the
predetermined targets in the Annual Performance Plan (APP). Ensure the
audited Annual Report will be used to establish the extent in which the
objectives in the APP has been achieved. Ensure management and monitoring
of programme risk register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S. Mpafa Tel No: (043) 492 1405, Head Office (Qonce)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/134 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: DSRAC
03/07/2026
SALARY : R932 292 – R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : Amathole District – (Ku-Gompo City)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level
6)or preferably a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised by SAQA,
Public Administration / Public Management/ Management/ Human Resource
Management, Supply Chain Management/ Financial Management. A minimum
of three (3) years’ experience at an assistant director level. In-depth knowledge
and understanding of corporate services management in public service.
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership skills. Programme and
project management skills. Financial management skills. Change management
skills. Knowledge management skills. Service delivery innovation skills.
Problem-solving and analysis skills. People management and empowerment
skills. Client orientation and customer focus. Communication skills. Honesty
and integrity. Networking and presentation skills. Computer skills. Excellent, in-
depth knowledge of and insight into all applicable policy frameworks governing
the public sector. A valid driving licence.
DUTIES : Manage financial administration services. Ensure adherence and compliance
to finance legislations. Monitor budget expenditure and statements. Ensure
payment of service providers. Monitor banking and revenue services. Manage
salary services. Ensure compliance on internal control requirements. Manage
supply chain services. Ensure provision of acquisition and demand services.
Ensure provision of logistics services. Ensure provision of facilities
management services. Provide transport services. Manage district movable
assets. Ensure compliance on asset management policy. Ensure disposal of
assets. Support and monitor verification of assets. Monitor asset register.
Manage the provision of human resource services. Compile and submit input
for the annual recruitment plan. Provide and support recruitment process.
Provide conditions of service. Ensure provision of registry services. Coordinate
human resource development and training services. Ensure provision of
integrated employee wellness services. Coordinate labour relations issues.
Manage administration support. Give input in the development of policies and
operational plans. Attend and respond to audit matters. Compile and submit
124
monthly and quarterly reports. Manage human and financial resources. Ensure
authenticity of the evidence provided. Maintain staff discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. B. Mbangatha Tel No: (043) 492 1838 / 1839, Amathole District Ku-Gompo
City
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/135 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION: PALAEONTOLOGY REF NO: DSRAC
02/07/2026
SALARY : R761 157 – R816 852 per annum, an all-inclusive remuneration, (OSD)
CENTRE : Albany Museum (Makanda)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a master’s degree in Paleontology / Geology /
Geo Science/Zoology, specializing in Eastern Cape Palaeoscience.
Compulsory registration with SACNASP as a professional Natural Scientist. A
minimum of three (3) years relevant experience in a museum natural science
environment. Knowledge of curating paleontology collections, research,
fieldwork, fossil preparation and publication of scientific papers. Ability to
recognise diagnostic characteristics on which classification systems are based.
Computer knowledge, laboratory protocol, word computer packages,
paleontology, and financial management. Program and project management.
Communication skills, Report writing skills, People management skills,
Customer or client orientated approach. Knowledge of public service
regulations, legislations/ policies/ prescripts and procedures. Knowledge of
Eastern Cape Museum Act. National Heritage Act, Operational standards for
natural science museum, South African National Standards for Museums. A
valid driving licence.
DUTIES : Identify, name and classify fossil species based on morphology, and
evolutionary relationships. Conduct field surveys and excavations, perform
laboratory analysis (fossil preparation and microscopic analysis), curate
paleontology collections, and publish research to support knowledge
generation and understanding of changing ecosystems through time, and
heritage management. Develop and implement methodologies, policies,
systems and procedures. Identify and consolidate needs for methodologies,
policies, systems and procedures. Identify gaps and develop appropriate
interventions. Monitor and evaluate program performance. Perform scientific
functions that require interpretation in the absence of an established
framework. Provide scientific support and advice. Develop working relations
with client base. Create public awareness of the science system. Provide
scientific data, information and advice as requested. Review scientific
publications. To perform scientific analysis and regulatory functions. Conduct
analysis of scientific data. Gather and interpret data, evaluate results and
disseminate information, through both scientific publications and public
outreach initiatives. Apply appropriate scientific models to generate information
and knowledge. Formulate proposals and compile reports. Develop and
customize models and techniques. Conduct research and development.
Continuous professional development to keep up with new technologies,
procedures and knowledge. Conduct basic and applied research.
Research/literature studies to improve expertise. Publicly present research
findings. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on science-related matters.
Manage human capital development. Mentor, train and develop candidate
scientists and others to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to
sound scientific principles and code of practice. Supervise scientific work
processes. Manage performance and development.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. P. Cimi Tel No: (046) 622 2312, Albany Museum (Makanda)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/136 : CHIEF LANGUAGE PRACTITIONER REF NO: DSRAC 04/07/2026
SALARY : R605 742 – R713 535 per annum (Level 10), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : Head Office (Qonce)
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma NQF Level 6 / Preferably
bachelor’s degree NQF Level 7 as recognized by SAQA in Linguistic, Socio /
Applied -linguistic, Language Planning, Translation and Interpreting Studies,
Language Practice / Terminology & Lexicography / Journalism /
Communications / Editing or Publishing studies (Languages and Literature
125
services) plus a minimum of three (3) years relevant work experience at a
supervisory level (SL 7 / 8) in the field of Languages and Literature
development, translating documents from English to isiXhosa. Experience in
procurement of goods and services will be an added advantage. A valid driving
licence.
DUTIES : Assist in developing language legislation and policy. Formulate language
legislation and policy. Facilitate implementation of language policy. Promote
the principle of multilingualism in the province. Facilitate establishment of
language units in government departments. Coordinate strategic engagements
with the Eastern Cape Language Forum. Facilitate translation and interpreting
services. Coordinate development of term lists in all official languages of the
province. Conduct research on all difficult terms/words on the term list.
Terminology development services. Develop terms in conjunction with
language role players. Research on difficult terms. Facilitate
authentication/verification of difficult terms. Facilitate approval of terms of
difficult nature by national term bank. Development of isiXhosa/Sesotho
orthography. Provide administrative support for the component. Facilitate the
development of Literature. Coordinate engagements with Literature bodies in
the province. Facilitate Literature Development programs. Coordinate both
literature and language projects. Assist in the development of strategic,
operational and procurement, business and projection plans. Manage financial
resources. Manage human resources. Compile monthly and quarterly reports.
Allocation of resources for staff. Manage EPMDS and provide staff
development training needs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S. Mpafa Tel No: (043) 492 1405, Head Office (Qonce)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/137 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SCHOOL SPORT REF NO: DSRAC 05/07/2026
SALARY : R605 742 – R713 535 per annum (Level 10), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : Amathole District (Ku-Gompo City)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a three-year Degree/Diploma (NQF level 6) as
recognised by SAQA in Sport Management / Sport Administration / Human
Movement studies / Recreation Leisure studies / Sport coaching and Human
sciences / Sport and Exercise science / Sport and Exercise technology coupled
with three (3) years’ relevant experience in Sport and Recreation environment
at Senior/officer level or SL 7/8 in the field of Sport and Recreation. Good
communication and organising skills. Ability to work under pressure. Basic
computer skills. Basic knowledge of Financial Administration. Report writing
skills, Presentation skills will be an added advantage. Knowledge of relevant
prescripts. A valid driving license is required. Competencies: Project
Management will be an added advantage. Knowledge and understanding of
the Conditional Grant Framework. Knowledge of relevant pre-scripts acts and
regulations that govern sport and recreation. Understanding of policies and
regulations that govern school sport Provincially and Nationally. Knowledge of
wide range of work processes and procedures such as events management,
government procurement, monitoring and evaluation. Good decision-making,
analytical and negotiation skills. Financial management, strategic and
operational, planning and organizing, people management, problem-solving
and conflict management skills. Good report writing skills. Computer literacy
(Excel and PowerPoint) and good interpersonal relations. Should be able to
work independently and under pressure. Computer Literacy. A valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the Implementation of School Sport Programmes and District
Seasonal School Sport Championships (NSSC). Implement strategic
partnership programmes with School Sport Sector. Facilitate the support
towards schools participating in leagues, festivals and provision of equipment
and attire. Facilitate the establishment of fully fledged school sport structures
and the support towards school sport structures. Develop a database of
schools in the within zonal and circuits educational areas. Conduct regular
meetings with Department of Education to plan, implement and monitor school
sport programmes. Formulate key and strategic partnerships with local
stakeholders and NPO’s/NGO’s towards the support of school sport
programmes. In conjunction with the DoE and School Sport Structures facilitate
the submission of training delegates towards education and training courses in
the Province. Provide monthly, quarterly, semester and annual performance
126
and expenditure reports on the school sport. Facilitate the annual registration
of schools in the school sport programme. Facilitate Stakeholder engagement
sessions with the school sport sector to plan for the development of the annual
operation plan. Co-ordinate the provision of non-financial support to be
provided to schools and school sport structures. Manage the School Sport
budget and the procurement of goods and services as per the annual
operational plan and conditional grant requirements. Submit all conditional
grant reporting requirements as per the conditional grant framework and
department reporting requirements. Develop an annual school sport plan in
conjunction with all school sport stakeholders. Monitor and evaluate
implementation of school sport programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B. Mbangatha Tel No: (043) 492 1839 / 1839, Amathole District Ku-Gompo
City
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/138 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK & INTERGRITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DSRAC 06/07/2026
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : Head Office (Qonce)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus National Diploma (NQF level 6) as recognised
by SAQA) in Risk Management or Internal Auditing or Accounting with at least
3 years’ experience at supervisory level or (SL 7/8) in the field of Ethics
Management or Anti-Corruption Field. Certification as Ethics Officer will be an
added advantage. Project Management and Supervisory Experience. Job
related Knowledge of Public Service Regulations and Legislation as well as
Integrity Management Framework. Conceptual and Analytical thinking and
Problem-solving ability. Good Report Writing skills. Communication skills
(written and verbal skills), Staff and Interpersonal Relations. Creative
Presentation skills. Interpretation of Policy. Planning and organizing skills.
Research capability and Investigation Methodology Skills. Understanding of
investigation techniques, tools, and processes. Honesty and Integrity. Time
management Skills. Ability to work under pressure. Work independently with
minimal supervision for extended periods. Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel
and PowerPoint. Willing to travel extensively. A valid driver’s license is a
requirement. No criminal record or pending cases.
DUTIES : Assist in Development and Management of Ethics Management Strategy,
Policies and Programmes in the Department. Co-ordinate and assist in the
development of departmental ethics and fraud risk registers. Provide
continuous support to staff within the Risk Management unit to prevent ethics,
fraud and corruption-related risks. Manage and ensure that reported cases of
conflict of interest and remunerative work performed without permission are
investigated. Assist in Administration and co-ordination of financial declarations
by departmental officials. Co-ordinate the implementation of Ethics and Fraud
Management strategy. Initiate the development of Ethics and Fraud
Implementation Plans. Monitor, evaluate and report on remunerative work
performed outside the Public Service. Monitor and report on the ethics
performance of the organisation. Monitor and report on integrity systems and
processes within the department. Manage and monitor compliance to ethics
and fraud policies. Conduct Lifestyle Reviews and/or Lifestyle Audits and draft
reports for review by the deputy director. Provide technical support to the
departmental Ethics and Fraud Champions. Co-ordinate the sitting of
Risk/Fraud/Ethics forum meetings. Liaise with stakeholders. Conduct ethics
and fraud/anti-corruption awareness campaigns within the department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R. Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 0949 / 0936, Head Office – (Qonce)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/139 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: DSRAC
07/07/2026
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : Head Office (Qonce)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) in
Public Administration, Public Management / Business Management / Strategic
Management / Management Sciences / Business Administration /
127
Development studies/ Policy & Development Management / Monitoring &
Evaluation / Project Management / Organizational Development/ Economics /
Management Sciences / Governance / Development planning / Operations
management / Social Sciences. Minimum of three (3) years’ experience at
supervisory level 7/8 in strategic management/planning. Knowledge of Public
Service Act, (Batho Pele Principles), PFMA, and Framework and Guideline for
Departmental Strategic Plans and Annual Performance Plans. Application of
planning methodology. Basic project management. Strategic formulation and
implementation. Public sector governance framework. Communication (verbal
and written). Problem solving and analysis. Planning and organising.
Knowledge management. Diversity management. Budgeting and financial
management. Basic research skills. Willingness to drive long Hours. Computer
literacy. Thorough Knowledge of Microsoft Office. Incumbent must have
worked in strategic planning or monitoring and evaluation. Competencies:
Development and operational effectiveness, good people skill & teamwork,
results orientated, self-starter, presentation and communication skills. A valid
driving license is required.
DUTIES : Coordinate operational and strategic planning processes. Facilitate the
development, review, and alignment of strategic and operational plans in line
with organisational objectives, policies, and legislative requirements. Facilitate
planning sessions and provide guidance to business units on strategic planning
processes, frameworks, and methodologies. Support the development of
performance plans, implementation plans, and related planning
documentation. Monitor progress against approved plans and identify risks,
challenges, and opportunities for improvement. Compile strategic planning
reports, dashboards, and briefing documents for management consideration.
Ensure effective coordination between strategic priorities, operational
activities, and resource allocation. Facilitate the identification of service
delivery challenges and support the development of improvement plans and
interventions. Facilitate stakeholder engagement to ensure service delivery
initiatives are responsive to organisational and stakeholder needs. Support the
implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of service delivery improvement
initiatives. Analyse performance information and provide recommendations to
enhance efficiency, effectiveness and quality of service delivery. Track
implementation progress and prepare reports on improvement initiatives,
outcomes, and areas requiring intervention. Promote continuous improvement
practices across the organisation. Coordinate and support the implementation
of priority programmes /projects. Facilitate the planning, implementation, and
monitoring of priority programmes and strategic projects. Provide project
coordination support, including tracking milestones, deliverables, risks, and
dependencies. Facilitate collaboration among internal and external
stakeholders involved in priority initiatives. Monitor project performance against
approved objectives, timelines, and outcomes. Prepare progress reports,
presentations, and updates for management and relevant governance
structures. Support the resolution of implementation challenges to ensure
successful delivery of strategic priorities. Management of administration
support. Give input in the development of policies and operational plans.
Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports. Determine and verify the
authenticity of the evidence provided. Attend and respond to audit matters.
Supervise human resources. Maintain staff discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R. Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 0949 / 0936, Head Office – (Qonce)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/140 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DSRAC 08/07/2026
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District (Makanda)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6)
as recognized by SAQA in Human Resource Management / Personnel
Management /Public Administration / Public Management / Business
Management / Industrial Psychology. Minimum of three (3) year’s functional
experience on Senior Personnel Practitioner Level (7/8) in Human Resource
Management. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL, ISISELE & Pension Case
Management systems. Human Resource Management Methodology,
Principles and Strategies. COIDA, DPSA Directives, Customer Service
128
principles (Batho Pele Principles). Budgeting and Financial Management ,
Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Basic Condition of Employment
Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National Treasury regulations,
Promotion of Access to Information Act, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act
(PAJA), Minimum information security standard (MISS), Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA) Skills: Coaching and Mentoring, Conflict
Management, Critical and Innovative Thinking, Inspire Commitment, People
Management, Performance and oversight, Performance/ Project Management,
Quality Assurance, Risk Management. Ability to work under pressure and
independently. A valid driving license is required.
DUTIES : Facilitate and monitor Human Resource Management and Personnel Conduct:
attend and hold Human Resource meetings. Coordinate HR Reports.
Coordinate recruitment, selection and appointment process. Develop and
implement recruitment and selection plans in line with approved workforce
plans. Champion the advertising, screening, shortlisting, interviewing, and
appointment of employees. Ensure compliance with relevant legislation,
policies, and recruitment procedures. Provide support to the selection
committees during recruitment and selection processes and technical support
on recruitment matters. Monitor vacancy rates and recruitment turnaround
times. Prepare recruitment reports and maintain accurate recruitment records.
Promote employment equity and transformation objectives during recruitment
processes. Administer conditions of service. Manage the implementation and
administration of employee conditions of service. Understanding of GEPF and
Pension Case Management system. Ensure accurate administration of
appointments, transfers, promotions, terminations, leave and leave gratuity
management, overtime, housing allowance, long-service recognition, and
other employee benefits. Provide guidance on human resource policies and
applicable legislation. Monitor compliance with service conditions and resolve
employee enquiries. Ensure accurate personnel records and HR information
management. Liaise with payroll and other stakeholders to resolve personnel
administration matters. Coordinate performance management and
development services. Provide guidance and training to managers and
employees on performance management processes. Monitor compliance with
performance planning, reviews, assessments, and development plans. Identify
training and development needs based on performance outcomes. Ensure
proper record keeping and reporting on performance management activities.
Facilitate and monitor Human Resource Development and EPMDS. Monitor
the development of Workplace Skills Plan. Monitor development of
performance contracts. Conduct quarterly reviews and Validation of Reviews
and Assessment. Coordinate the administration of PMDS, Monitor and
facilitate Training & Capacitation of employees. Coordinate labour relations
services, Facilitate the implementation of labour relations policies and
procedures. Give advice to management on labour legislation and collective
agreements. Execute disciplinary, grievance and incapacity processes.
Promote sound employer-employee relations and conflict resolution. Monitor
implementation of labour relations decisions and maintain records. Coordinate
wellness programmes services. Plan and implement employee health and
wellness programmes (EHWP). Develop and implement wellness initiatives
addressing physical, emotional, financial, and psychosocial wellbeing.
Organise awareness campaigns on health, wellness, and work-life balance.
Facilitate counselling referrals and employee support services. Monitor
employee participation and evaluate programme effectiveness.
Promote a healthy, safe, and productive work environment. Management of all
administration processes. Give input in the development of policies and
operational plans. Compile and submit monthly and quarterly reports. Develop
and interpret reporting templates. Determine and verify the authenticity of the
evidence provided. Attend and respond to audit matters. Supervise human
resources. Maintain staff discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. R. Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 0949 / 0936, Head Office – (eQonce)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/141 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: DSRAC
09/07/2026
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : Amathole Museum (Qonce)
129
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus an appropriate Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level
6) as recognised by SAQA in Public Administration / Public Management/
Management/ Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Management/
Financial Management. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience at
supervisory level SL 7/8. In-depth knowledge and understanding of corporate
services management in public service. Competencies: Strategic capability
and leadership skills. Programme and project management skills. Financial
management skills. Change management skills. Knowledge management
skills. Service delivery innovation skills. Problem-solving and analysis skills.
People management and empowerment skills. Client orientation and customer
focus. Communication skills. Honesty and integrity. Networking and
presentation skills. Computer skills. Excellent, in-depth knowledge of and
insight into all applicable policy frameworks governing the public sector. A valid
driving licence. A valid driving license is required.
DUTIES : Provide human resource administration services. Submit input for the annual
recruitment plan on museum posts. Facilitate the implementation of ARP
through recruitment and selection and process. Coordinate the process of
conditions of service. Monitor records management system. Facilitate human
resource development and training. Render integrated performance
management development system. Coordinate integrated employee wellness
services. Monitor attendance register and leave records. Maintain staff
discipline. Provide financial management services. Give input in the
development of procurement plans. Monitor budget expenditure. Monitor and
ensure payment of suppliers. Monitor banking and revenue services. Provide
supply chain management services. Render demand and acquisition
management services. Facilitate logistics and asset disposal management
services. Monitor facilities management services. Monitor supply chain
compliance. Provide maintenance of museum buildings and grounds. Ensure
maintenance of museum buildings. Ensure maintenance of museum grounds.
Ensure general cleaning services of museum. Provide secretariat services to
the museum board. Compile and manage board files. Compile board
documents in preparation for meetings. Prepare invitations for board meetings.
Provide secretariat services and minute taking in meetings. Create and update
pending items to board members. Compile and submit quarterly reports on
board matters. Liaise with museum subscribers, donors and supporters.
Provide administration support. Attend and respond to audit matters. Supervise
financial and human resources. Manage allocation of staff resources. Compile
and submit monthly and quarterly reports. Supervise PMDS and staff
development training needs. Supervise attendance register and leave records.
Supervise mentoring and coaching of experiential learners and interns.
Maintain staff discipline.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S. Cakata Tel No: (043) 642 4506, Amathole Museum – (Qonce)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/142 : LIBRARIAN (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela District (Gqeberha) Ref No: DSRAC 10/07/2026
Sarah Baartman District (Humansdorp Library) Ref No: DSRAC 11/07/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a National Diploma or B.Bibl. Degree/ B Tech
(NQF Level 6) in Library and Information Science / Studies or Bachelor of
Information Sciences with at least 1 to 2 years working experience in a Library
and Information Service field. Knowledge of public service legislation, policies,
and prescripts. Basic knowledge of library and information science procedures
and processes. Good computer, organising, communication, and report writing
skills, excellent human, and interpersonal relations. Sound knowledge of
stakeholders. Understanding of at least four Eastern Cape official languages
will be an added advantage. A valid driving license.
DUTIES : Conduct awareness campaigns, reading programmes and promotion of library
use to all communities. Conduct stock control of all library material. Manage,
receive and reconcile library material from the district office. Attend to user
needs. Compile monthly user statistics and reports. Participate in drafting of
the business plan. Manage library assets and resources. Implement annual
recovery of monies. Establish and sustain library structures. Manage mini-lib
services. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. T. Sandi – 041 492 1292 / 1231 / 1230, Nelson Mandela District (Gqeberha)
130
Ms. N. Qumza 046 492 0223 / 0226, Sarah Baartman District – (Makanda)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/143 : SPORT PROMOTION OFFICER: SCHOOL SPORT REF NO: DSRAC
12/07/2026
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : Amathole District (Ku-Gompo City)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a three-year Degree/Diploma (NQF level 6) as
recognised by SAQA in Sport Management / Sport Administration / Human
Movement studies / Recreation Leisure studies / Sport coaching and Human
sciences / Sport and Exercise science / Sport and Exercise technology coupled
with 1 to 2 years’ relevant experience in Sport and Recreation environment.
Competencies: Good communication and organising skills. Knowledge of
relevant pre-scripts in sport and recreation. Ability to work under pressure.
Knowledge and understanding of the departmental policies and procedures.
Coaching and mentoring skills. Project and event management skills. Basic
computer skills. Basic knowledge of Financial Administration. Report writing
skills, Presentation skills will be an added advantage. Knowledge of relevant
prescripts. Exposure in several codes or federations. A valid driving license is
required.
DUTIES : Coordinate the establishment and provide support to sport and recreation
structures in schools, wards and local areas, in conjunction with relevant
stakeholders. Establish and maintain sport and recreation structures and clubs
in schools, wards and local areas. Provide support services to federations,
clubs and school sport structures. Provide support to provincial sport academy
and satellites. Implement programmes to increase and improve relations
between sport and recreation stakeholders. Establish good governance
structures of sport and recreation as dictated by relevant legislation. Facilitate
sustainable capacity development programmes in sport within schools, wards,
local areas and districts. Facilitate capacity-building programmes. Create an
enabling environment for talent identification. Administer coach education in
terms of different sporting codes. Monitor and evaluate progress of education
and training activities. Promote sports and skills management. Implement sport
and recreation programmes in the schools, wards, local areas for the
development of sport and recreation. Perform events management /
coordination activities. Liaise with hubs, sport federations, sport councils and
academy to increase the number of participants in sports and recreation
activities. Implement programmes to increase and improve relations between
sports and recreation stakeholders. Plan, develop and implement school and
community sports, school and community mass participation and high-
performance programmes. Formulate and administer league-related sports
programmes. Promote health and fitness in communities. Provide an oversight
role in the implementation of sports academy and recreation council
programmes. Encourage all levels of communities to participate in different
codes of sport and recreation activities. Coordinate flagship programmes
through sport and recreation activities. Monitor and evaluate compliance with
sport and recreation transformational policies. Monitor the implementation of
all transformation policies and programmes. Promote gender mainstream in
sport and recreation. Promote integrated programmes of all sector
departments and relevant stakeholders. Promote awareness and participation
to all ages, gender and capability categories. Provide administrative functions
in relation to programmes that are implemented. Collect, analyze, compile and
update data in all sport and recreational activities. Provide administrative and
technical support with regard to sports and recreation facilities and
infrastructure. Administer the system for storage, maintenance issue and return
of sport and physical recreation equipment. Examine, compile and monitor
transfer payments of funded projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B. Mbangatha Tel No: (043) 492 1839 / 1839, Amathole District – Ku-
Gompo City
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
131
POST 27/144 : SPORT PROMOTION OFFICER: RECREATION DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
DSRAC 13/07/2026
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : OR Tambo District (Mthatha)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate plus a three-year Degree/Diploma (NQF level 6) as
recognised by SAQA in Sport Management / Sport Administration / Human
Movement studies / Recreation Leisure studies / Sport coaching and Human
sciences / Sport and Exercise science / Sport and Exercise technology coupled
with 1 to 2 years’ relevant experience in Sport and Recreation environment.
Competencies: Good communication and organising skills. Knowledge of
relevant pre-scripts in sport and recreation. Ability to work under pressure.
Knowledge and understanding of the departmental policies and procedures.
Coaching and mentoring skills. Project and event management skills. Basic
computer skills. Basic knowledge of Financial Administration. Report writing
skills, Presentation skills will be an added advantage. Knowledge of relevant
prescripts. Exposure in several codes or federations. A valid driving license is
required.
DUTIES : Promote and implement healthy lifestyle programmes in communities and
wards to increase participation in sport and recreation. Coordinate non-
financial and financial support towards community-based sport and recreation
forums. Assist in the implementation of interventions to increase the number of
participants from specific target groups in sport and recreation activities.
Establish local community sport and recreation structures in wards and hubs.
Facilitate the provision of equipment and attire resources to Hubs and
communities. Conduct coaching clinics and workshops for sport and recreation
participants and structures. Promote and Implement Indigenous Games
programmes in wards and capacitate stakeholders on the technical guidelines.
Collect and consolidate all related data and submission of weekly and monthly
reports. Facilitate skills development initiatives in communities and recreational
structures. Implement all recreational programmes as per the annual
operational plan. Perform events management/coordination activities in
recreational programmes and activities. Liaise with Hubs, NPO’s, NGOs and
sister departments to increase the number of participants in sports and
recreation activities. Plan, develop and implement community sports, and
community mass participation programme. Conduct monthly meetings with
community sport and recreation forums, federations, clubs and schools.
Coordinate campaigns with relevant stakeholders and government
departments. Promote integrated programmes of all sector departments and
relevant stakeholders. Promote awareness and participation to all ages,
gender and capability categories. Provide administrative functions in relation
to programmes that are implemented. Collect, analyze, compile and update
data in recreational activities
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S. Stuma Tel No: (047) 495 0853, OR Tambo District – (Mthatha)
e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/145 : ACCOUNTING CLERK (PRODUCTION) REF NO: DSRAC 14/07/2026
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : EL Museum – (Ku-Gompo City)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate. An NQF level 6 qualification in the Financial
Management/Accounting/Financial accounting/ Bookkeeping/ Finance/ Cost &
Management Accounting/ Public Finance/ Business Admin with Accounting
(Finance subject/ B.com/ Accounting science/ Public Management with
accounting/ Finance subject. No work experience, however, exposure in the
environment will be an advantage. Job related knowledge: Basic knowledge of
financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate a
computer and collate financial statistics. Basic knowledge and insight of the
Public Service financial legislations procedures and Treasury Regulations
(Public Finance Management Act, Division of Revenue Act, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act,
Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL,
BAS, LOGIS, etc). Job related skills: Planning and organisational. Computer
literacy. Communication (verbal and written). Basic numeracy. A valid driving
license will be an added advantage.
132
DUTIES : Verify and capture all salary related transactions on PERSAL system. Receive
and verify completeness and correctness of all required documents from HR
department and other stakeholders. Prepare and capture leave gratuities on
PERSAL. Submit documents to internal control for compliance checking.
Prepare BAS payments and journals. Recall and Reverse official’s salaries
where applicable. Capture change of official’s banking details. Capturing of fuel
reimbursement claims for official’s salaries where applicable. Ensure record
keeping and filing of salary related documents.
ENQUIRIES : G. Morcom / S. Lamati Tel No: (043) 743 0686 – EL Museum (Ku-Gompo City)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/146 : RECEPTIONIST REF NO: DSRAC 15/07/2026
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : Bayworld Museum – (Gqeberha)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate. An NQF level 6 qualification in Office Admin/
Business Admin/ Secretarial Studies in Management Assistant / Public
Administration / Tourism management will be an added advantage. No work
experience required, however, exposure serving in the Public service office
with relevant experience will be an added advantage. Knowledge: Excellent
language skills and the ability to communicate well with people at different
levels and from different backgrounds. Good telephone etiquette. Computer
literacy and being able to work with all Microsoft Applications and the related
systems. Sound organisational skills. High level of reliability. Excellent written
communication skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Good grooming and
presentation. Remain up to date regarding prescripts/policies and procedures
applicable to her/his work terrain. Remain abreast with the procedures and
processes that apply in the office.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial support service to the office: Receive, screen and forward
incoming calls to correct person while taking accurate messages. Welcome
visitors, determine their needs and direct them to the appropriate staff
members. Type documents for the staff within the office. Operate office
equipment like fax machines and photocopiers. Assist with friends of Museum
Subscriptions and Group Bookings. Provide a clerical support service to the
office: Liaise with travel agencies to make travel arrangements for the staff of
the office. Arrange meetings and events for the office. Process the travel and
subsistence claims of the staff of the office. Draft routine correspondence and
reports. Handle the procurement of standard items like stationery,
refreshments etc.
ENQUIRIES : V. Ketelo Tel No: (041) 584 0650 – Bayworld Museum (Gqeberha)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/147 : RECEPTIONIST REF NO: DSRAC 16/07/2026
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : EL Museum – (Ku-Gompo City)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate. An NQF level 6 qualification in Office Admin/
Business Admin/ Secretarial Studies in Management Assistant / Public
Administration/ will be an added advantage. No work experience required,
however, exposure in the environment will be an advantage. Knowledge:
Excellent language skills and the ability to communicate well with people at
different levels and from different backgrounds. Good telephone etiquette.
Computer literacy and being able to work with all Microsoft Applications and
the related systems. Sound organisational skills. High level of reliability.
Excellent written communication skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion.
Good grooming and presentation. Remain up to date regarding
prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to her/his work terrain. Remain
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial support service to the office: Receive, screen and forward
incoming calls to correct person while taking accurate messages. Welcome
visitors, determine their needs and direct them to the appropriate staff
members. Co-ordinate appointments with the Appointments Secretary. Type
documents for the staff within the office. Operate office equipment like fax
machines and photocopiers. Provide a clerical support service to the office:
Liaise with travel agencies to make travel arrangements for the staff of the
133
office. Arrange meetings and events for the office. Identify venues, invite role
players, and organise refreshments. Process the travel and subsistence claims
of the staff of the office. Draft routine correspondence and reports. Handle
courier services and telephone accounts. Handle the procurement of standard
items like stationery, refreshments etc.
ENQUIRIES : G. Morcom / S. Lamati Tel No: (043) 743 0686 – EL Museum (Ku-Gompo City)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
POST 27/148 : GENERAL ASSISTANT: LOGISTICS SERVICES REF NO: DSRAC
17/07/2026
SALARY : R144 024 – R169 656 per annum (Level 02), an all-inclusive remuneration
CENTRE : Amathole District (Ku-Gompo City)
REQUIREMENTS : Abet Level 4 or grade 10. National Senior Certificate will be an added
advantage. No experience required. Exposure to the environment will be an
added advantage. Prepared to work after hours. Knowledge: Basic knowledge
of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Interpersonal relations
and communication skills. A valid driving license.
DUTIES : Facilitate receipt of goods and services. Receive, check and record the goods
and invoices received from suppliers. Reconcile goods received with
requisition forms. Endorse with signature on receipt of goods. Record goods
received. Keep goods in a correct and safe place. Facilitate storage, issuing
and distributing stores item/inventory. Enter goods in a correct bin allocation.
Update bin cards and item records. Liaise with the end user for collection of
goods received. Issue and facilitate signing of goods receipt voucher by the
end user. Facilitate capturing and submission of payment voucher documents.
Compare and check invoice against the order and the goods received. Check
validity of the invoice (stamp, signature and banking details). Receive and
capture submission on the system. Record outgoing submission. Forward the
submission to payments. Conduct and control stocktaking.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B. Mbangatha Tel No: (043) 492 1839 / 1839, Amathole District – (Ku-
Gompo City)
e- Recruitment Technical Enquiries – recruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
NOTE : Persons with a disability are encouraged to apply.
DSRAC INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME 2026/27-2027/8 (24 MONTHS)
NOTE : The Department of Sport, Recreation, Arts & Culture is offering an internship
programme. The programme will be for a non-renewable period of 24 months.
Unemployed Graduates are invited to apply and be in possession of the
National Diploma / Degree as indicated in the requirements below. Applicants
who previously underwent or are currently on an internship programme will not
be considered. The objective of the Internship program within the public
service, is to address the problem of youth unemployment, especially tertiary
(university and Technikon) graduates by providing them with work experience
opportunities in the public service. As per the Directive issued by DPSA on the
employment of persons to developmental programmes in the public service:
Internship, Learnership, Apprenticeship, Graduate recruitment schemes and
related programmes, this Internship programme is specifically aimed at the
following: Interns need to be graduates and unemployed. Interns need to be
within their specific demographic area. The internship should not exceed a
period of 24 months, meaning candidates cannot enter into an internship
program more than once. During the tenure of the contract, the youth will
receive continuous learning and development interventions to improve their
skills through on-the-job training initiatives for optimal performance and to
equip them for future employment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/149 : INTERN: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DSRAC:
18/07/2026 (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office – Qonce
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate/Grade 12 with a three-year
degree/National Diploma (NQF 6) as recognised by SAQA in Training and
134
Development/ Management of Training/ HRM with Training as a Major subject.
Be a South African citizen. Must have no criminal record. Applicants must be
unemployed and never participated in an internship programme previously.
DUTIES : Develop and implement the Workplace Skills Program (WSP). Administer
bursary programs for all bursary awards. Administer the Graduate Internship,
TVET and Work Integrated programmes. Maintenance of the database for all
HRD programmes. Perform administrative duties such as preparing for
Induction of graduates and learners, writing of appointment and exit letters for
external funded students. Monitor Internship reports and attendance registers.
Provide assistance in coordinating Compulsory Induction (CIP), Departmental
induction, and maintaining of inducted officials and Departmental orientation.
Organise Youth Developmental Programme meeting and taking of minutes.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. Z. Mhloma / Ms. R. Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 1338 /
043 492 0949
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
POST 27/150 : INTERN: STRATEGIC PLANNING REF NO: DSRAC: 19/07/2026
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office – Qonce
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate/Grade 12 with a three-year
National Diploma or bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 6/7) recognised by SAQA
in: Policy Development/ Public Management/ Public Administration/ Strategic
Management and Planning/ Social Science/ Business Management. Be a
South African citizen. Must have no criminal record. Applicants must be
unemployed and never participated in an internship programme previously.
DUTIES : Assist in organisation of Strategic Planning and Strategic Review Sessions of
the Department of Sport, Recreation, Arts and Culture (DSRAC) in order to
develop the statutory planning documents of the department. Collect and
compile inputs from the managers and unit manager for the development and
production of various statutory documents to submit to the Provincial and
National Treasury, National Department of Sport, Arts and Culture and
Provincial Legislature. Assist with the collection and consolidation of planning
inputs from all programmes within the department. Facilitate the distribution of
the Strategic Planning Cycle Framework to all programme managers at all
Districts and Head Office. Assist all managers in the directorate in the
execution of their duties related to strategic planning. Organise sessions with
internal and external stakeholders to communicate the approved Strategic and
Annual Performance Plan for their knowledge and information. Assist with
logistics related to travel and accommodation for strategic management staff.
Take minutes and compile reports for strategic management sessions.
Undertake any other duties related to strategic management as delegated by
managers.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. Z. Mhloma / Ms. R. Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 1338 /
043 492 0949
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
POST 27/151 : INTERN: CULTURAL AFFAIRS (ARTS & CULTURE) REF NO: DSRAC:
20/07/2026
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : BCM District (Ku-Gompo City)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate/Grade 12 with a three-year
degree/National Diploma (NQF 6) as recognised by SAQA in Arts and Culture
Studies// Arts Management/ Fine Arts/ Performing Arts. Bachelor of Arts
majoring in one of the following or related fields Music, Dance & Drama, Visual
Arts. Be a South African citizen. Must have no criminal record. Applicants must
be unemployed and never participated in an internship programme previously.
DUTIES : Coordinate Arts and Culture Programmes. Liaise and facilitate partnership with
stakeholders. Keep and update a database of stakeholders. Perform
administrative duties of the section.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. Z. Mhloma / Ms. R. Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 1338 /
043 492 0949
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
135
POST 27/152 : INTERN: CULTURAL AFFAIRS (ARTS & CULTURE) REF NO: DSRAC:
21/07/2026
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Alfred Nzo District (Mount Ayliff)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate/Grade 12 with a three-year
degree/National Diploma (NQF 6) as recognised by SAQA in Arts and Culture
Studies// Arts Management / History/ Fine Arts/ Performing Arts. Bachelor of
Arts / Social Science majoring in one of the following or related fields Music,
Dance & Drama, Visual Arts, Film, Fashion Designing. Be a South African
citizen. Must have no criminal record. Applicants must be unemployed and
never participated in an internship programme previously.
DUTIES : Assist in the development of concept documents. Organise meetings and
minute-taking. Assist in the development of budget and Implementation of
Operational Plan. Assist with Monitoring of Arts and Culture funded Projects.
Develop and update District database for Stakeholders. Establish and Maintain
working relations with Stakeholders. Compile project reports. Implement Arts
& Culture projects. Compile monthly reports for the section. Assist with the
implementation of events. Implement outreach programmes. Assist with
procurement in the section. Provide general administration support.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. Z. Mhloma / Ms. R. Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 1338 /
043 492 0949
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
POST 27/153 : INTERN: CULTURAL AFFAIRS (ARTS & CULTURE) REF NO: DSRAC:
22/07/2026
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Chris Hani District (Komani)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate/Grade 12 with a three-year
degree/National Diploma (NQF 6) as recognised by SAQA in Arts and Culture
Studies// Arts Management/ Fine Arts/ Performing Arts. Bachelor of Arts /Social
Science majoring in one of the following or related fields Music, Dance &
Drama, Visual Arts, Film. majoring in one other following or related fields:
Langue, Music, Dance, Speech & drama, Visual Arts, Film or any relevant field
of study. Previous experience in arts administration, event planning, or related
fields. Knowledge of arts and culture structures and funding institutions. Strong
interest in arts, culture, and community engagement. Excellent written and
verbal communication skills. Organisational skills and attention to detail. Ability
to work independently and as part of a team. Creativity and willingness to
contribute ideas. Be a South African citizen. Must have no criminal record.
Applicants must be unemployed and never participated in an internship
programme previously.
DUTIES : Assist with the development of concept documents. Assist in development of
budget and implementation of operational plan. Assist with planning and
coordination of arts and cultural events, exhibitions, or festivals. Assist with
administrative tasks such as scheduling, drafting correspondences, and
maintaining databases, organise meeting and minutes taking. Engage with
artists, performers, and community partners as needed.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. Z. Mhloma / Ms. R. Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 1338 /
043 492 0949
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
POST 27/154 : INTERN: SCHOOL SPORT & RECREATION REF NO: DSRAC: 23/07/2026
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Amathole District (Ku-Gompo City)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate/Grade 12 with a National
Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Sport Management or Human Movement
Science. Understanding of the MPP Conditional Grant framework will be an
added advantage. Good presentation, verbal and writing skills. Willingness to
work under pressure. Computer skills. A valid code 08 driver’s licence will be
an added advantage. Be a South African citizen. Must have no criminal record.
Applicants must be unemployed and never participated in an internship
programme previously.
DUTIES : Program Planning: How to design community sport programs, mass
participation events, coaching clinics, school sport support. Facilities
136
Management: Basic upkeep of fields, halls, equipment inventory, booking
systems. Event Management: Planning, coordinating, and running sport
festivals, tournaments, fun walks – including risk management. Social
Cohesion & Development: Using sport for youth development, crime
prevention, health promotion, inclusion of people with disabilities. Assist in
organising and coordination of Sport and Recreation activities. Liaise between
DSRAC, Recreation structure and DoE. Compile reports, register athletes in
Schools, hubs and clubs participating in sport events. Compile needs analysis
and capture data. Assist in the procurement process.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. Z. Mhloma / Ms. R. Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 1338 /
043 492 0949
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
POST 27/155 : INTERN: CULTURAL AFFAIRS (ARTS & CULTURE) REF NO: DSRAC:
24/07/2026
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Joe Gqabi District (Maletswai)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate/Grade 12 with a three-year
degree/National Diploma (NQF 6) as recognised by SAQA in Cultural Studies
/ Arts Management / Public Administration / Public Management/ Management/
Library and Information Science/Archives & Records Management/ Heritage &
Museum studies/ Cultural Heritage Management/ History/ Fine Arts/
Performing Arts/ Cultural studies majoring in one of the following or related
fields Music, Dance & Drama, Visual Arts, Film. Be a South African citizen.
Must have no criminal record. Applicants must be unemployed and never
participated in an internship programme previously.
DUTIES : Assist in the development of concept documents. Organise meetings and
minute-taking. Assist in the development of budget and Implementation of
Operational Plan. Assist with Monitoring of Arts and Culture funded Projects.
Develop and update District database for Stakeholders. Establish and Maintain
working relations with Stakeholders. Compile project reports. Implement Arts
& Culture projects. Compile monthly reports for the section. Assist in
implementing events. Implement outreach programmes. Assist with
procurement in the section. Provide General administration support.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. Z. Mhloma / Ms. R. Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 1338 /
043 492 0949
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
POST 27/156 : INTERN: SPORT & RECREATION REF NO: DSRAC: 25/07/2026
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela District (Gqeberha)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate/Grade 12 with a National Diploma
/ Degree, NQF Level 6 in Sport Management / Human Movement Science.
Understanding of the National Sport and Recreation Plan will be added
advantage. Must have an understanding of the Sport and Recreation
environment/sector within Nelson Mandela Bay. Good presentation, verbal and
writing skills. Willingness to work under pressure. Computer skills. Be a South
African citizen. Must have no criminal record. Applicants must be unemployed
and never participated in an internship programme previously.
DUTIES : Assist Sport and Recreation sub sections in the administration and
Implementation of programmes/events in the district. Collect data and compile
stats on sport and recreation programmes/events in the district. Assist in the
delivery of sport and recreation equipment/attire to beneficiaries. Compile
Team List. Communicate with communities/clubs and schools on sport and
recreation programme requirements and compliance. Assist in the co-
ordination of community festivals/coaching clinics and special projects.
Develop and compile database of sport and recreation information. Assist sub
sections in the compilation of monthly reports and collection of portfolios of
evidence. Social Cohesion and Development: using sport and recreation for
youth development, crime prevention, health promotion, inclusion of people
with disabilities. Assist in organising and coordination of Sport and recreation
activities. Liaise between DSRAC and sport and recreation structure and DoE.
Compile reports, register athletes in sport and recreation schools, hubs, and
club participating in sport and recreation events. Compile needs analysis and
capture data. Assist in the procurement process.
137
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. Z. Mhloma / Ms. R. Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 1338 /
043 492 0949
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
POST 27/157 : INTERN: MUSEUMS & HERITAGE REF NO: DSRAC: 26/07/2026
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : OR Tambo District (Mthatha)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate/Grade 12 with a three-year
degree/National Diploma (NQF 6) as recognised by SAQA in Anthropology/
Marketing/ History/ Museology / Museum Studies/ Archaeology/ Indigenous
Knowledge Systems. Be a South African citizen. Must have no criminal record.
Applicants must be unemployed and never participated in an internship
programme previously. Passion for heritage, culture, history, and museum
work. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Museum collections management and documentation. Research and
exhibition development. Public education and outreach programmes.
Marketing and social media management. Visitor services and guided tours.
Heritage preservation and community engagement activities. Administrative
support and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. Z. Mhloma / Ms. R. Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 1338 /
043 492 0949
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
POST 27/158 : INTERN: MUSEUMS & HERITAGE REF NO: DSRAC: 27/07/2026
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Sarah Baartman District (Makanda)
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate/Grade 12 with a National Diploma
or Degree (NQF Level 06 as recognized by SAQA) in Tourism
Management/History/Social Science, Good communication and interpersonal
skills. Computer Literacy. Be a South African citizen. Must have no criminal
record. Applicants must be unemployed and never participated in an internship
programme previously.
DUTIES : Assist in the implementation of projects aimed at identifying, conversing and
managing Heritage resources. Assist in implementation of projects aiming at
promoting cultural heritage Tourism. Assist in hosting of national days and
significant Heritage events. Assist in Auditing of cultural and historically
significant Heritage sites and objects in the province. Identification,
development and promotion of intangible cultural heritage and indigenous
knowledge systems. Co-ordinate the process of strengthening relations with
local authorities, traditional, and religious leaders in the district including
relevant stakeholders. Provide general administrative tasks in the office
necessary to ensure the office functions in its full capacity & plays an effective
role in the district. Assist in raising community awareness and development of
strategies to promote protection and proper management of heritage
resources.
ENQUIRIES : can be directed to Ms. Z. Mhloma / Ms. R. Swartbooi Tel No: (043) 492 1338 /
043 492 0949
For e-Recruitment Technical Enquiries email to: erecruitment@ecsrac.gov.za
138
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
Free State Provincial Government is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. We intend to
promote representatively (race, gender and disability) in the Province through the filling of these posts,
and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote representatively will receive
preference.
APPLICATIONS : Addressed to Head: Human Resource Management Directorate, Human
Settlements. P.O. Box 247, Bloemfontein 9300. Physical applications must be
hand-delivered as follows:
Bloemfontein – Submit at the foyer of OR Tambo House, St. Andrews Street,
Bloemfontein.
Centre: Qwaqwa – Submit at Human Settlements Offices, Mampoi Street,
Phuthaditjhaba, Qwaqwa.
Sasolburg – Submit at Mora Investments House, Erf 15, Fichard Street,
Sasolburg.
Welkom – Submit at Human Settlements Offices, Kopano Complex, 312 Long
Road, Welkom.
Applications must be placed in the appropriately marked box at Security of the
respective buildings. No applications will be accepted by staff in the offices in
the building. Candidates may also apply via email at recruit@fshs.gov.za
(please specify the post name and reference number in the subject line).
Candidates who applied in the previous advert that was withdrawn are
encouraged to apply again.
CLOSING DATE : 21 August 2026, Time: 16H00
NOTE : Directions to applicants: All applications must be submitted on a NEW Z83
form, which can be downloaded from the internet at
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa/vacancies.asp or obtained from any Public Service
Department, and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview, following communication from Human Resources Management.
Each application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed by the
Applicant. The application must indicate the correct Job title, the office where
the position is advertised, and the Reference number as stated in the advert.
Failure by the applicant to fully complete, sign, and initial the application form
will result in the disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will, unfortunately, not be considered. Should you
be in possession of foreign qualification/s, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Applications that do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements will
not be considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
reference checks and employment verification). Correspondence will be limited
to short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within four (4)
months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply
with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late,
will not be considered. The Department does not accept applications via fax.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the Application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract of 24 months and a
performance agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required
to undergo a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. NB:
Applicants must be South African citizens originating and residing in the Free
State, must be unemployed, and must have never participated in a Public
Service Internship programme previously.
139
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/159 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
DISTRICT SERVICES REF NO: HS 001/2026 (X2 POSTS)
(24-month contract)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, A minimum qualification at NQF Level 6 in Information Technology /
Computer Systems and Networks, Basic knowledge of government prescripts
and principles.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Rapulungoane at 060 960 0020
POST 27/160 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
DISTRICT SERVICES (X15 POSTS)
(24-month contract)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Thabo Mofutsanyana District (Qwaqwa) Ref No: HS 002/2026 (X3 Posts)
Fezile Dabi District (Sasolburg) Ref No: HS 003/2026 (X3 Posts)
Lejweleputswa District (Welkom) Ref No: HS 004/2026 (X3 Posts)
Mangaung District (Bloemfontein) Ref No: HS 005/2026 (X3 Posts)
Xhariep District (Bloemfontein) Ref No: HS 006/2026 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, A minimum qualification at NQF Level 6/7 in Civil Engineering /
Construction Management / Technical Related, Basic knowledge of
government prescripts and principles.
ENQUIRIES Mr. M. Mohloki at 066 477 4675 (Thabo Mofutsanyana District)
Mr. D. Maduna at 079 188 8446 (Fezile Dabi District)
Mr. Mofutsanyana at 063 695 3165 (Lejweleputswa)
Mr. Mokoena at 066 476 2730 (Mangaung)
Ms. Ngwenya at 072 779 9599 (Xhariep)
POST 27/161 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: OFFICE ADMINISTRATION
DISTRICT SERVICES (X10 POSTS)
(24-month contract)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Thabo Mofutsanyana District (Qwaqwa) Ref No: HS 007/2026 (X2 Posts)
Fezile Dabi District (Sasolburg) Ref No: HS 008/2026 (X2 Posts)
Lejweleputswa District (Welkom) Ref No: HS 009/2026 (X2 Posts)
Mangaung District (Bloemfontein) Ref No: HS 010/2026 (X2 Posts)
Xhariep District (Bloemfontein) Ref No: HS 011/2026 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, A minimum qualification at NQF Level 6 in Office Administration /
Management, Basic knowledge of government prescripts and principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M. Mohloki at 066 477 4675 (Thabo Mofutsanyana District)
Mr. D. Maduna at 079 188 8446 (Fezile Dabi District)
Mr. Mofutsanyana at 063 695 3165 (Lejweleputswa)
Mr. Mokoena at 066 476 2730 (Mangaung)
Ms. Ngwenya at 072 779 9599 (Xhariep)
POST 27/162 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: ADMINISTRATORS -
AFFORDABLE HOUSING REF NO: HS 012/2026
(24-month contract)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12; a minimum qualification at NQF Level 6 in Public
Administration/Office Administration or equivalent; basic knowledge of
government prescripts and principles.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L. Sefuli at 063 684 0482
POST 27/163 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: RENTAL TRIBUNAL REF NO:
HS 013/2026
(24-month contract)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
140
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, A minimum qualification at NQF Level 7 in Law / LLB or equivalent,
Basic knowledge of government prescripts and principles.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. O. Seate at 060 991 9099
POST 27/164 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: HOUSING DEVELOPMENT &
PLANNING REF NO: HS 014/2026
(24-month contract)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, A minimum qualification at NQF Level 7 in Urban/Town and Regional
Planning / Development Studies, Basic knowledge of government prescripts
and principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T.J. Kumalo at 066 486 5393
POST 27/165 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
– BID ADMINISTRATION AND LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT REF NO: HS
015/2026 (X2 POSTS)
(24-month contract)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12; a minimum qualification at NQF Level 6 in Public Administration /
Supply Chain Management / Financial Management; basic knowledge of
government prescripts and principles.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K. Mthembu at 062 024 3858
POST 27/166 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: FINANCIAL & BUDGET
MANAGEMENT – SALARIES AND TAX REF NO: HS 016/2026 (X2 POSTS)
(24-month contract)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, A minimum qualification at NQF Level 6 in Accounting / Financial
Management, Basic knowledge of government prescripts and principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. F. Labuschagne at 066 486 5361
POST 27/167 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: HS
017/2026
(24-month contract)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, A minimum qualification at NQF Level 6 in Internal Auditing /
Financial Information Systems, Basic knowledge of government prescripts and
principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M. Rathebe at 082 815 6626
POST 27/168 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: HUMAN RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT REF NO: HS 018/2026
(24-month contract)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, A minimum qualification at NQF Level 6 in Human Resources
Management / Public Admin / Management, Basic knowledge of government
prescripts and principles.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P. Soke at 066 477 4508
POST 27/169 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: CORPORATE
COMMUNICATION REF NO: HS 019/2026
(24-month contract)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
141
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, A minimum qualification at NQF Level 6 in Corporate
Communication / Media Studies, Basic knowledge of government prescripts
and principles.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Z. Mbewu at 060 976 8683
POST 27/170 : GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO:
HS 020/2026
(24-month contract)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12, A minimum qualification at NQF Level 6 in Labour Relations / Human
Resources Management, Basic knowledge of government prescripts and
principles.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N. Leoela at 079 332 7771
142
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
It is the department’s intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in
the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and
disability status is required.
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be submitted online at: https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/. Z83
and updated CV must be attached. Pre-entry SMS certificate is compulsory for
SMS appointments. To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for
further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For
more information regarding the course please visit the NSG website:
www.thensg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 18 August 2026 @00:00 midnight
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new z83 form, obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The
Completed and signed form should be accompanied by a recently updated CV
only specifying all experience indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well
as indicating three reference persons with the following information: name and
contact number(s), email address and an indication of the capacity in which the
reference is known to the candidate. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the interview date following
communication from HR. Suitable candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizen, credit record checks, qualification,
and employment verification). Confirmation of final appointment will be subject
to a positive security clearance. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. The persons appointed to this position will be
subjected to a security clearance. SMS candidates will be required to undergo
a Competency Assessment as prescribed by the DPSA. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
will be a practical exercise, and the other will be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Gauteng Provincial Treasury (GPT) reserves the right to utilise
practical exercises / tests for non-SMS positions and during the recruitment
process (candidates who are shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to
determine the suitability of candidates for the post(s). GPT also reserves the
right to cancel the filling / not to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any
stage of the recruitment process. Prospective applicants must please use the
new Z83 which is effective as of 01 January 2021.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/171 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MACRO-ECONOMIC ANALYSIS REF NO:
REFS/050284
Directorate: Sustainable Fiscal Resource Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant tertiary qualification in Economics/Econometrics/ Finance at NQF
level 8 e.g. Honours Degree. 3 years functional experience in Economics or
Finance and/ or related fields. Knowledge and understanding of MFMA,
Treasury regulations, accounting principles, and PFMA.
DUTIES : To determine and evaluate economic parameters and socio- economic
parameters and imperatives within the provincial and macro-economic context.
Analyse key economic variables their interrelations and relevance for the
budget. Perform periodic analysis, maintenance and update of provincial socio-
economic indicators and conduct research which contributes to departmental
publications. Support the Deputy Director by producing chapters in the
research publications of the Macro-Economic Analysis unit. Perform
econometric modelling for research and provide economic information to meet
ad hoc requests. Support the Budget Management unit by researching and
143
submitting contributions to the economic section of the Estimates of Provincial
Receipts and Expenditure (EPRE). Perform econometric modelling for
research, analysis and forecasting of trends to inform policy makers of the
potential future impact of their decisions and the unfolding events in the
economy. Remain abreast with all economic trends both locally and
internationally so that the impact of these on the provincial economy can be
anticipated.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Baleseng Sedibe – email: baleseng.sedibe@gauteng.gov.za
POST 27/172 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF
NO: REFS/050285
Directorate: Municipal Finance Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A three-year tertiary qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in
Accounting/ Financial Management/ Accounting/ Cost Management and Cost
Accounting/ Logistics/ Supply Chain/ Transport management/ Internal
Auditing/public procurement management/ Public Management/
Administration. 3-5 years’ experience in the Supply chain management.
Competencies: National Treasury circulars and guidelines; Procurement
Policy, Contract Law principles/procedures; Public Service Regulatory,
Financial Management; Policy analysis and development, Interpretation of
legislation. valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Collaborate with relevant stakeholders to strengthen governance and
accountability. Analyse UIF&W reports and identify recurring SCM compliance
risks. Engage municipalities on corrective actions and compliance measures.
Assist municipalities with resolving SCM reporting challenges. Maintain
accurate SCM compliance records and databases. Ensure responses are
processed within prescribed turnaround times. Compile monthly and quarterly
reports on SCM. Assist municipalities in strengthening contract management
controls and governance processes. Prepare analysis reports and
recommendations for management consideration. Co-facilitate the review and
the updating of the frequently asked questions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Teneko Bangelo – email: teneko.bangelo@gauteng.gov.za
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME FOR 2026/28
(24 MONTHS CONTRACT)
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/173 : INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY REF NO: REFS/055927
(X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Information Communication Technology
STIPEND : R98 097 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : 3-year NQF 6 & 7 qualification in ICT related Degree/Diploma.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Robert Tsotetsi at 073 2727 131
POST 27/174 : COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: REFS/055929 (X1 POST)
Directorate: Communications
STIPEND : R98 097 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/1 to 2 year certificate: 3D Animation, Motion Graphics
Designer, Graphic Designer, UI / UX Designer.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Robert Tsotetsi at 073 2727 131
POST 27/175 : COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: REFS/055930 (X1 POST)
Directorate: Communications
STIPEND : R98 097 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/ 1 or 2 year certificate in Photography, Videography and
Video editing.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Robert Tsotetsi at 073 2727 131
144
POST 27/176 : COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: REFS/055931 (X1 POST)
Directorate: Communications
STIPEND : R98 097per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma/1 to 2 certificate in Audio engineering and Sound production
or related courses in the Audio visual sector.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Robert Tsotetsi at 073 2727 131
POST 27/177 : FINANCIAL AUTOMATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REF NO:
REFS/055943 (X1POST
Directorate: Financial Automation Management System (FAMS)
STIPEND : R98 097 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree: Finance/Financial Information Systems/ Information
Technology
ENQUIRIES : Mr Robert Tsotetsi at 073 2727 131
POST 27/178 : FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REF NO:
REFS/055932 (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Financial Information Management System (FIMS)
STIPEND : R98 097 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : BSC in Mathematical Statistics or Bachelor’s Degree in Business
Administration or BSC Business Information System or Degree/Diploma in
Information Technology
ENQUIRIES : Mr Robert Tsotetsi at: 073 2727 131
POST 27/179 : HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REF NO: REFS/055934 (X1
POST)
Directorate: Human Resources Management
STIPEND : R98 097 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree: Human Resource Management/Development Public
Administration/Management (Specialising in HRM)
ENQUIRIES : Mr Robert Tsotetsi at 073 2727 131
POST 27/180 : COMPLIANCE (NORMS AND STANDARDS) REF NO: REFS/055936 (X1
POST)
Directorate: Compliance (Norms and Standards)
STIPEND : R98 097 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Degree: Risk, Audit and Law
ENQUIRIES : Mr Robert Tsotetsi at 073 2727 131
POST 27/181 : INTERNAL AUDIT COMMITTEES REF NO: REFS/055937 (X1 POST)
Directorate: Internal Audit Committees
STIPEND : R98 097 per annum
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Degree: Business/Office/Public Administration or Public Management
ENQUIRIES : Mr Robert Tsotetsi at 073 2727 131
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS AND TRANSPORT
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/182 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: VIP AND POOL REF NO: REFS/055880
: Chief Directorate: VIP and Pool Fleet
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Koedoespoort
145
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree/Diploma in Transportation Management / Fleet
Management / Logistics / Finance / Business Administration. 3 – 5 years’
experience in fleet management and knowledge in office administration.
Driving license as an added advantage.
DUTIES : Administer requests from VIP and Pool clients: Manage the booking of
chauffeur and VIP services. Verify the booking form signed by the delegated
transport officer/manager/financial official as per the transport policy. Confirm
the availability of the requested vehicle as per the request. Manage the client
department to provide an authorised trip authorisation form (Z606) and driver’s
license for the collection of vehicle/s. Monitor vehicles allocated to staff.
Resolve all queries within acceptable time frame. Facilitate contract
administration of short-term rentals: Manage all contracts as prescribed by
entity. Approve contracts on Financial Information System. Verify that VIP
section is completed on the application form and on the active contracts.
Monitor records of daily contract activities. Send letters to clients whose
contracts are about to expire and put them to the terms of the contract. Manage
the cancellation of contract by the client. Manage the Fleet Management
System for chauffeurs: Schedule drivers for chauffer services on Fleet
Management System. Monitor and report the status of chauffeur bookings and
vehicles allocated to officials. Compile Financial Information System reports
and submit vehicle tracking reports timeously. Develop and facilitate the
implementation of policies and procedures: Participate in the development,
review and implementation of policies and standard operating procedures.
Compliance with all relevant departmental legislation, policies and procedures.
Improve accuracy in service delivery. Filling of VIP and POOL reports and
approved contracts. Submit monthly and quarterly reports on agreed time
frames. Supervise staff (Human/equipment/Assets): Keep proper filing for all
records. Manage staff work attendance including leave. Manage performance
of staff (Implement Performance Management Development System)
Implement and manage Facilities processes, procedures and systems.
Compile operational planning for the team. Facilitate staff development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Precious Maimela Tel No: (011) 345 – 1538
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za alternatively email to
gFleeTRecruitment@gauteng.gov.za. For general enquiries please conduct
Human Resources on 010 345 1538.
NOTE : It is our intention to promote representative (Race, Gender, and Disability) in
the Public Service through the filling of this post. Applications must be
submitted on form Z83(effective 01 January 2021), obtainable from any public
service department or on internet at www.dpsa.gov.za /documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each application for employment form must be fully completed,
duly signed and initialled by the applicant. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application during the selection
process. A fully completed, initialled, and signed new form Z83 (Section A, B,
C and D compulsory and (Section E, F and G ignore if CV attached) and a
detailed CV is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified documents not older than six months on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. NB: If you do not
receive any response within 3 months, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. No faxed, post or hand delivered, and late applications will be
considered. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Suitable candidates will be subjected
to personnel suitability checks (positive Identity, qualification, fraud listing,
employment reference, and criminal record verification as well as the required
level of security clearance process). The logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Department reserves the right not to make
appointment to the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 August 2026
146
POST 27/183 : LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER (MR5): LEGAL OPINION REF NO: REFS/050350
Branch: Corporate Services
(Re-advert, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply)
SALARY : R483 219 - R1 155 777 per annum. The offer is based on recognition of
experience. (Proof of recognized experience will be requested only to the
shortlisted candidates).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : LLB (NQF Level 8). At least 14 years' post graduate legal experience. Admitted
Attorney or Advocate in the High Court of South Africa. Knowledge And Skills:
Communications skills, Computer literacy, Interpersonal skills, Negotiation
skills Problem solving and Ability to work with the team Ability to work under
pressure. Leadership, Decision Making, Planning Organization, Report writing,
Presentation. Change Management Planning and organizing Strategy, Policy
Development, Project Management, People Oriented Financial Management
Research Conduct, analyses, interpret, advise and mentor junior on research.
DUTIES : Provide sound legal opinion to the department, Draft legal opinions for the
department, Represent the department during legal proceedings, Provide
general legal support and PAIA, PAJA and POPIA compliance. Conduct a data
inventory to identify what personal information is processed, where it is stored,
and who it is shared with. Implement data protection policies and procedures,
including comprehensive privacy notice, data retention schedules and secure
destruction processes. Appear in court, lead evidence and present legal
arguments. Determine and deliver persuasive legal arguments to a judge or
magistrate. administer legal advice/opinion in the Department research the
applicability of legal principles on legal Opinion formulate questions to be
answered on legal Opinions, study and cite relevant cases on aspects related
to legal Opinions, respond to legal opinion aspects that arise during public
hearing and parliamentary sessions, consult with relevant line function Advice
on settlement to avoid unnecessary legal costs. Research on latest update of
legal developments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 -7521, Ms. P. Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355 –
7175
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below positions, please apply online at
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given to Persons with Disabilities, Coloured Females, Indian Females, White
Females candidates. For general enquiries please contact Human Resource
on 011 355-7082/7043.Only online applications will be considered. Applicants
must utilise the most recent Z83 application form for employment, issued by
the Minister for the Public Service and Administration in line with Regulation 10
of the Public Service Regulations, 2016. All fields in the New Z83 form must be
completed, initialled and signed. Furthermore, a comprehensive Curriculum
Vitae (CV) must also be attached. Failure to attach the completed Z83 and
Comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) will result in disqualification. The New
Z83 form is obtainable from any Public Service Department or the DPSA
website www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Only shortlisted candidates who meet
all the requirements of the post will be requested to submit certified copies of
qualifications, identity document and valid driver’s license (where
driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the job) not older than six (06)
months. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It is our intention to promote
representation (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the
filling of posts and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will
promote representation will receive preference. It is the Department’s intention
to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in the
Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The Department reserves the right not to
appoint. If you do not receive any response from us within 3 months, please
accept your application was unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 21 August 2026
147
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE AND TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
APPLICATIONS : To be posted to: The Chief Director, Human Resource Management &
Development, Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs,
Private Bag X9078, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or Hand Delivered To: The Chief
Registry Clerk, 2nd Floor, South Tower, Natalia, 330 Langalibalele Street,
Pietermaritzburg. Applications received after this date will not be accepted.
Applicants can also submit their Z83 and CV via e-Recruitment System on
www.eservices.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms E Perumal
CLOSING DATE : 21 August 2026
NOTE : To Applicants: Applications must be submitted on the new Application for
Employment Form (Z83) available from any Public Service Department and
should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV. The Department discourages
applications sent by registered mail and will not be held responsible for
applications sent via registered mail which are not collected from the post
office. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the application
reaches the Department timeously. Failure to comply with any instruction will
disqualify applicants. Applicants can also submit their Z83 and CV via e-
Recruitment System on www.eservices.gov.za.Appointment is subject to a
positive outcome on the following checks (Security Clearance, Citizenship,
qualification verification, criminal records, credit records and previous
employment). Faxed or late applications will not be accepted. Should
applicants not receive any response from the Department within three months
of the closing date, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will
be subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical
exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo
psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural
preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. The Department is an equal
opportunity, affirmative action employer and is committed to empowering
people with a disability.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/184 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: 22/1/3/6/3/38/2026 (HRMD)
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Senior Management Services)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of a Bachelors Degree/ NQF Level
7 qualification in Human Resource Management as recognised by SAQA
coupled with at least 5 years experience at senior managerial level in a Human
Resource Management and Development environment, as well as an SMS
Pre-entry certificate (Nyukela) as offered by the National School of
Government (NSG) (Certificate submitted prior to appointment) and a valid
Drivers licence. Essential Knowledge, Skills And Competencies Required: The
successful candidate must have: Sound knowledge of the RSA Constitution;
Public Service Act; Public Service Regulations; Public Finance Management
Act; Labour Relations Act; Employee Performance and Management System;
Basic Conditions of Employment Act; Project Management Principles; Youth
Development Policy; National and Provincial practice Notes; Supply Chain
Management practices and procedures; Promotion of Access to Information
Act; Service Delivery frameworks; Promotion of Administration Justice Act;
Skills Development Act; National Skills Development Strategy; National
Development Plan; Provincial Growth and development plan; Treasury
Regulations; KZN Citizens charter; Occupational Health and Safety Act;
Intergovernmental matters; Ministerial Handbook; Promotion of Equality and
148
Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act and any other relevant Act/Legislative
mandates; Language skills; listening skills; presentation skills; analytical
thinking; interpersonal relations; strategic planning skills; organisational skills;
research skills; analytical skills; leadership skills; financial management skills;
time management skills; report writing skills; problem solving skills; conflict
management skills; change management skills; self discipline and able to work
under pressure with minimum supervision; project management skills; people
management skills; relationship management; decision making; facilitation
skills; risk management skills; strategic direction; good communication skills
(verbal & written) with staff and management, other departments and private
sector organisations, educational institutions, municipalities, traditional
institutions and good computer literacy in MS Office.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to manage a Strategic Human
Resource function within the department with the following responsibilities:
Render efficient Human Resource administration services; Provide optimal
development of departmental human resources; Manage the development of
human resource strategies and provide organisational development services;
Manage labour relations matters; Ensure the development and implementation
of policies, strategies and guidelines; Manage the resources of the Chief
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Z Majozi Tel No: (033) 260 8045
POST 27/185 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
22/1/3/6/3/39/2026 (HRMD)
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
Directorate: Human Resource Administration
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Senior Management Services)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of a Bachelors Degree/ NQF Level
7 qualification in Human Resource Management field as recognised by SAQA
coupled with at least 5 years middle/senior managerial experience in a Human
Resource environment, as well as an SMS Pre-entry certificate (Nyukela) as
offered by the National School of Government (NSG) (Certificate submitted
prior to appointment) and a valid Drivers licence. Essential Knowledge, Skills
And Competencies Required: The successful candidate must have:- Sound
knowledge of the RSA Constitution; Public Service Act; Public Service
Regulations; Public Finance Management Act; Labour Relations Act;
Employee Performance and Management System; Basic Conditions of
Employment Act; Project Management Principles; Millennium development
goals; Youth development policy; National and Provincial practice notes;
Supply Chain management practices and procedures; Promotion of Access to
Information Act; Service Delivery frameworks; Promotion of Administration
Justice Act; Skills Development Act; Human Resource Development strategy
of South Africa; National Skills Development Strategy; National Development
Plan; Provincial Growth and Development Plan; Treasury Regulations; KZN
Citizens Charter; Occupational Health and Safety Act; Intergovernmental
matters; Ministerial Handbook; Protocol manual of South Africa; Promotion of
Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act and any other relevant
Act/Legislative mandates; language skills; listening skills; presentation skills;
analytical thinking; interpersonal relations; strategic planning skills;
organisational skills; research skills; analytical skills; leadership skills; financial
Management skills; time Management skills; report writing skills; problem
solving skills; conflict management skills; change management skills; self
discipline and able to work under pressure with minimum supervision; project
management skills; people management skills; relationship management;
decision making; facilitation skills; risk management skills; strategic direction;
Good communication skills (verbal & written) with staff and management, other
departments and private sector organisations, educational institutions, and
good computer literacy in MS Office.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to manage an efficient Human
Resource Administration services within the department with the following
responsibilities: Manage and ensure the provision of recruitment, selection and
other life cycle event of employees; Manage the conditions of services and
remuneration matters of employees; Manage the human resource
management information systems; Develop policies, procedures and
149
strategies aimed at improving service delivery within the municipal
administration environment and Manage the resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dlamini Tel No: (033) 260 8058
POST 27/186 : DIRECTOR: MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION REF NO: 22/1/3/6/3/39/2026
(MAG)
Chief Directorate: Municipal Administration and Governance
Directorate: Municipal Administration
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package to be
structured in accordance with the rules of the Senior Management Services)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of a Bachelors Degree / NQF Level
7 qualification in Municipal Administration / Public Administration / Local
Government / Business Administration as recognised by SAQA coupled with at
least 5 years middle/senior managerial experience in a Municipal
Administration environment, as well as a SMS Pre-entry certificate (Nyukela)
as offered by the National School of Government (NSG) (Certificate submitted
prior to appointment) and a valid Drivers licence (code 8). Essential
Knowledge, Skills And Competencies Required: The successful candidate
must have:- Sound knowledge of the RSA Constitution; Municipal Systems Act;
KZN Cemeteries and Crematoria Act, 2006; Local Authorities Ordinance, 1974;
KZN Pound Act, 2006; Local Government Legislation; Local Government staff
regulations; Public Service Act; Public Service Regulations; Public Finance
Management Act; Labour Relations Act; Employee performance and
management system; Municipal Financial Management Act; Project
management principles; Millennium development goals; Social dynamics of
KZN communities; National and Provincial practice notes; SCM practices and
procedures; Promotion of Access to Information Act; language skills; listening
skills; presentation skills; analytical thinking; interpersonal relations; strategic
planning skills; organisational skills; research skills; analytical thinking;
leadership skills; financial management skills; time management skills; report
writing skills; problem solving skills; conflict management skills; change
management skills, project management skills; people management skills;
relationship management; decision making; Good communication skills (verbal
& written) with municipalities, departmental staff and SALGA and good
computer literacy in MS Office.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to oversee support and monitoring
of corporate services and statutory administrative matters within municipalities
in line with relevant municipal Acts and Regulations with the following
responsibilities: Manage support and monitoring of human resource
management matters of Senior Managers and councillors at municipalities
within the province; Manage support, monitoring and assessment of
organisational design at municipalities; administer municipal administrative
statutory obligations; Manage support and monitoring of ICT at municipalities
within the province; Develop policies, procedures and strategies aimed at
improving service delivery within the municipal administration environment and
management of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Govender at 060 882 5125
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/187 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CREDIT MANAGEMENT REF NO:
22/1/3/6/3/40/2026(FM)
Chief Directorate: Financial Management
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of a Bachelors Degree/ NQF Level
7 qualification in Financial Management as recognised by SAQA coupled with
3 years supervisory experience in a financial management environment and a
valid Drivers Licence. Essential Knowledge, Skills And Competencies
Required: The successful candidate must have: Sound knowledge of
procurement and payments systems, policies and procedures; Sound
knowledge of PFMA and Treasury Regulations, SCM and other prescripts;
Function knowledge of BAS; Knowledge of Public Service Act and Regulations;
150
Labour Relations Act; Good planning, decision making and problem solving
skills; Ability to develop the unit into a team; Numeracy skills; Report writing;
Financial Management; Good communication skills (verbal & written) with
colleagues, management, Treasury and suppliers; Good computer literacy in
MS Office (Ms Word and Ms Excel); must be prepared to drive official vehicles.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to manage creditor management
services with the following responsibilities: Manage the receiving and recording
of valid invoices; Manage the payment of suppliers within 30 days; Manage
financial reconciliations and reporting; Manage resources of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Chetty Tel No: (033) 260 8118
POST 27/188 : FIRE SAFETY COORDINATOR REF NO: 22/1/3/6/3/41/2026 (DMO)
Chief Directorate: Disaster Management
Directorate: Disaster Management Operations
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of an appropriate National Diploma
(NQF 6) in Fire Technology as recognised by SAQA coupled with 2 years
experience in Fire and Rescue services and a valid C1 Drivers Licence.
Essential Knowledge, Skills And Competencies Required: The successful
candidate must have: Sound knowledge of Disaster Management Act; Fire
Brigade Act; Knowledge of Fire and Rescue Services procedures; Public
Service Act; Municipal Regulations and policies; Ability to analyze and interpret
policies; Minute taking and report writing skills; Good organisational skills,
office management and document tracking; Capacity building; Good
communication skills (verbal and written) with municipalities, Traditional
Institutions, Public, Private sector staff and management; Good computer
literacy in MS Office (Ms Word, Ms Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to support municipalities and
stakeholders with fire and rescue services with the following responsibilities:
Monitor, evaluate and provide support with the development and
implementation of plans, legislative frameworks and strategies for fire and
rescue services within the Province; Implement and support municipalities with
fire safety and services capacity building programmes; Support with
establishment and maintenance of IGR structures in fire and rescue services;
Support municipalities with coordination of response capabilities; Provide
technical support for compliance with National and Provincial imperatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Hadebe at 071 671 0741
POST 27/189 : HRD PRACTITIONER: BURSARIES REF NO: 22/1/3/6/3/40/2026 (HCD)
Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
Directorate: Human Capital Development
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of a National Diploma/ NQF Level
6 qualification in Human Resource Management/Development/Skills
Development as recognised by SAQA coupled with at least 1-2 years of
experience in an HRM&D environment, experience in Bursaries will be an
added advantage and a valid Drivers Licence. Essential Knowledge, Skills And
Competencies Required: The successful candidate must have:- Sound
knowledge and understanding of Policies, Legislation and Prescripts pertaining
to the Human Resource Development field; Public Service Education and
Training Strategies; Education and Training Structures; Financial
Management; Practical demonstration of knowledge in the Human Resource
Development field; Finance; Project Management; Planning; Decision Making;
Problem Solving; Conflict Management; Staff Development; Diversity
Management; Presentation Skills; Customer Orientation; Good communication
skills (verbal & written) with other Government Institutions, Private Sector,
NGOs and Departmental Officials; Good computer literacy in MS Office.
Candidates must be able and willing to drive.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to coordinate bursaries and study
assistance programmes with the following responsibilities: Administer State
Aided Studies/Bursaries for the department; Provide for the administration of
bursary matters; Develop, implement and maintain bursary/study assistance
151
programme policies; Administer bursary/study assistance programme
payments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dlamini Tel No: (033) 260 8058
POST 27/190 : TRANSPORT CLERK REF NO: 22/1/3/6/3/41/2026(AUX)
Chief Directorate: Corporate Services
Directorate: Auxiliary Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate or
equivalent with no previous experience required and a valid Drivers Licence.
Essential Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: The successful
candidate must have: Administrative process; Report writing skills; Planning
and Organising skills; Interpersonal relations; flexibility; teamwork; Good
communication skills (verbal & written) with other Government Departments,
Private Sector, Staff, Municipalities; computer literacy and driving skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to render an efficient and effective
general administration support services with the following key responsibilities:
Coordinate the allocation pool vehicles, maintain pool vehicles; Monitor and
report on vehicle usage; Verify log sheets and reconcile; Provide administrative
support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Lourens Tel No: (033) 260 8227
POST 27/191 : DRIVER/MESSENGER REF NO: 22/1/3/6/3/42/2026 (CTLDC)
(5 Month Contract Post)
KZN Commission on Traditional Leadership Disputes and Claims
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of a Grade 10 qualification coupled
with 7 – 12 months relevant experience and a valid code 8 Driver’s License.
Essential Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: The successful
candidate must have: Knowledge of the procedures to operate a motor vehicle
e.g. procedures to obtain trip authorities, complete logbooks of the motor
vehicle, to obtain consumables (e.g. petrol) and obtain basic services (e.g.
fixing of flat tyre), Knowledge of the prescripts for the correct utilisation of the
motor vehicle e.g. how and for what purpose can the motor vehicle be utilised,
what is the requirement for the storage of the vehicle, Knowledge of the
procedures to ensure that the motor vehicle is maintained properly, Knowledge
of the procedures to perform messenger functions and routine office support
like registry functions and the making of photocopies, good interpersonal skills;
good communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be required to provide driver and messenger
duties with the following key responsibilities: Drive light and medium motor
vehicles; Render a messenger support service in the relevant office; Complete
all the required and prescribed records and log books with regard to the vehicle
and the goods handled, Do routine maintenance on the allocated vehicle.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Mthiya Tel No: (031) 204 1708
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative employer, whose aim is to promote representivity in
all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.”
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/192 : DEPUTY DIRECT HRM: MONITORING & EVALUATION REF NO: UGU DO
01/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive MMS package)
CENTRE : Ugu Health District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate,3 year Bachelor Degree / National Diploma in HR
Management Human Sciences / Public Management or Administration, A
minimum of 3 years’ Managerial Experience in Human Resource Management,
PERSAL certificate, Computer literacy: MS Office Software Applications, Valid
code EB driver’s license (code 8); Project management and strategic planning,
An understanding of the “push” factors affecting human resource supply and
152
demand within the health sector, Ability to prioritize issues and other work-
related matters so as to comply with time frames, Broad knowledge of HR
practices and disciplines, Excellent management, facilitation, communication
and interpretation skills, Expert knowledge legislative and policy framework
informing the area of operation, Ability to capture and communicate the
essence of recommendation in a concise and clear corporate language, Ability
to prioritize issues and after work related matters in order to comply with tight
deadlines, A clear understanding of challenges facing the Public Sector.
DUTIES : Ensure and facilitate the consolidation of an integrated HR Plan for the District
and monitor and evaluate the performance of Institutions to accomplish the
identified human resource management indicators, provide early warning and
develop innovative solutions to overcome identified problem areas; Oversee
and manage processes for the alignment of organizational and post
establishment structures within the District in line with emerging service
delivery demands as well as the imperatives set by the Annual Performance
Plan of the District, the Service Transformation Plan of the Department, budget
allocations as well as standards and workload statistics; Oversee the effective
implementation of Human Resources management policy imperatives in
Institutions and ensure consistency in the application thereof; Ensure a well-
coordinated and integrated approach to develop sound labour relations and
within the District promote staff wellbeing, safety, employee performance
management and develop system (EPMDS); Manage the utilization of
resources allocated to the section inclusive of the development of staff; Provide
District HR compliance and support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs N. Govender Tel No: (039) 682 4715
APPLICATIONS : Application to be forward to: The District Director, Ugu Health District Office,
Private Bag X735, Port Shepstone, 4240. Applications can also be e-mailed to:
UGU.HRIntern@kznhealth.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : The Human Resource Manager
NOTE : Detailed application for employment (Z83) and Curriculum Vitae. Certified
copies must not be submitted when applying for employment (Only short listed
candidates will be requested to submit proof). All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 28 August 2026
POST 27/193 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 OR GRADE 2 REF NO: OTH
MAKH 01/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
Other Benefits: 13th cheque, Medical Aid (Optional), Home owner’s allowance
(employee must meet prescribed Requirements) and 12% Rural Allowance
CENTRE : Othobothini Community Health Centre (Makhathini Clinic)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate/STD 10/Grade 12. Basic R425 qualification (diploma/degree
in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse and Midwife.1 year post basic qualification in Clinical
Nursing Science, Assessment, Diagnosis, Treatment and Care accredited with
SANC. Clinical Nurse Practitioner Grade 1 A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Clinical Nurse Practitioner
Grade 2 A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General
Nursing.10 years of experience of the experience referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining a 1–year Post Basic
qualification in Clinical Nursing Science, Assessment, Diagnosis, Treatment
and Care accredited with SANC. Knowledge, Skills, Training, and
Competencies Required: Knowledge of nursing care and procedures.
Knowledge of SANC Rules and Regulations and other relevant Legal
framework. Knowledge of Quality Assurance Programmes, Batho-Pele
principles and Patient Rights charter, human resource management and basic
financial management skills. Leadership, supervisory and report writing skills.
Good communication, counselling, interpersonal relations, conflict
management, decision making and problem-solving skills.
153
DUTIES : Ensure the efficient and effective control of surgical sundries, pharmaceuticals,
equipment and miscellaneous stores. Promote preventive and promote health
for clients in the facility. Maintain accurate and complete patients’s records
according to legal requirements. Assist in compiling and updating of procedural
guidelines. Identify problems and areas of improvement and communicate with
the Operational Manager. Deal with grievances and labour relations issues in
terms of laid down procedures/policies. Provide direct and indirect supervision
of junior staff and give guidance for quality patient care. Implement infection
control standards and practices to improve quality health care. Initiate
treatment and ensure evaluation of patients’s clinical conditions. Participate in
health promotion activities in the clinic and in community. Assess in-service
training needs, plan and implement training. Participate in data management
processes. Participate in the attainment of National Core Standards, realisation
of ideal clinic (ICRM), PSI and Surveys on PEC and waiting time.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S.R Dlamini Tel No: (035) 572 9002
APPLICATIONS : to be hand deliver to Othobothini CHC HR Department next to Msiyane High
School, Jozini, 3969. Or email to Sabelo.Mchunu@kznhealth.gov.za
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the Application for Employment Form (Z83),
which is obtainable at any Government Department or from website-
www.kzhealth.gov.za Applicants are not required to submit Copies of
educational qualifications and Professional registration certificates such
documents will be requested only from shortlisted candidates. People with
disabilities should feel free to apply. Reference numbers must be indicated on
the space provided. Please note that appointment will be subject to positive
outcome obtained from NIA on the following checks: security clearance, credit
record, qualifications, citizenship, and previous experience verification. Should
you not hear from us three months after the closing date, please accept that
your application was not successful. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 21 August 2026
POST 27/194 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY REF NO: DPKISMH 04 /2026 (X3
POSTS)
Component: Theatre
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 – R752 913 per annum
Other Benefits: 13th Cheque, Medical Aid (Optional) & Housing Allowance
(Employees to meet the Prescribe requirements)
CENTRE : Dr Pixley Ka Isaka Seme Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 (fourteen) years appropriate/recognisable
experience in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing of which at least 10 (ten) years must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the speciality after obtaining the 1
(one) year post-basic qualification in relevant speciality. Minimum
Requirements: Senior Certificate or equivalent. Degree/Diploma in General
nursing or equivalent qualification that allows for registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. A relevant one (01) year Post Basic qualification in
Operating Theatre Nursing Science. Registration certificate with South African
Nursing Council (SANC). Current SANC receipt (2026). A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience after registration as a Professional Nurse
with SANC in General Nursing. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competence
Required: Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing
statutes, and other relevant legal framework. Good communication skills-
verbal and written. Co-ordination and liaison skills. Problem solving skills and
critical thinking skills. Ability to work within the multidisciplinary team. To nurse
a paediatric ventilated/high care patient in ICU within directorate. Maintain
Professional growth/ethical standard and self-development. Assist in reduction
of complaints within the directorate. Previous experience in the following
disciplines would be advantageous: - General surgery. Laparoscopic surgery
Orthopaedic surgery, Recovery Room, CSSD, Obstetrics & Gynea.
154
DUTIES : Effective management of patients, display a concern for patients, promoting
and advocating. Proper treatment and care including awareness and
willingness to respond to patient’s needs, requirements and expectations.
Provision of quality services through setting of standards, policies and
procedures. Participate in the implementation of National Priorities clinical
guidelines, protocols. Maintain accurate and complete patient records
according to legal requirements. Exercise control over discipline, grievance
and labour relations issues. Promote good working relationships amongst staff
and patients. Assist in supervision and development of all nursing staff.
Reduction of maternal and child mortality and morbidity rate. Ensure effective
participation in all hospital programs e.g. IPC, Quality Assurance, etc. Provide
a Safe, therapeutic and hygienic environment for patients, visitors and staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SC Nduli: Nursing Manager – Dr PKISMH Tel No: (031) 530 1565
APPLICATIONS : To be hand delivered to 310 Bhejane Street (Hospital Gate Number 2)
Kwamashu or Emailed To: pixley.recruitment@kznhealth.gov.za or Couriered
To: 310 Bhejane Street (Hospital Gate Number 2) Kwamashu
FOR ATTENTION : Deputy Director: HRM
NOTE : The following documents must be submitted, Application for employment form
(Z83), which is obtainable at any Government Department or form website-
www.kznhealth.gov.za. Originally signed Z83 must be accompanied by a
detailed CV. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of
current/previous work experience endorsed and stamped by Human Resource
Department & other required documents. Applications must be submitted on or
before the closing date. The reference number must be indicated in the column
provided on the form Z83 e.g. DPKISMH 14/2023. NB: Failure to comply with
the above instruction will disqualify applicants. Please note that due to the
number of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The appointment is
subject to positive outcome obtained from NIA to the following checks (security
clearance, credit records, qualification, citizenship and previous experience
employment verifications and verification from the company Intellectual
Property (CIPC). The Department reserves the right not to fill the post (s). All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative employer, whose aim is to
promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department. Persons with disabilities should feel free to apply for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 August 2026.
POST 27/195 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE SPECIALTY REF NO: DPKISMH 05 /2026 (X1
POST)
Component: Critical Care
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 – R752 913 per annum
Other Benefits: 13th Cheque, Medical Aid (Optional) & Housing Allowance
(Employees to meet the Prescribe requirements)
CENTRE : Dr Pixley Ka Isaka Seme Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing
after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 (fourteen) years appropriate/recognisable
experience in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing, of which at least 10 (ten) years must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in the speciality. Minimum Requirements:
Senior Certificate or equivalent. Degree/Diploma in General nursing or
equivalent qualification that allows for registration with SANC as a Professional
Nurse. A relevant one (01) year Post Basic qualification in Nephrology Nursing
Science. Registration certificate with South African Nursing Council (SANC).
Current SANC receipt (2026). A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General
Nursing Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competence Required: Knowledge of
nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes, and other relevant
legal framework. Good communication skills-verbal and written. Co-ordination
155
and liaison skills. Problem solving skills and critical thinking skills. Ability to
work within the multidisciplinary team.
DUTIES : Assist in planning/organizing and monitoring of objectives of the specialized
unit. Provide a therapeutic environment for staff, patients and public. Provide
comprehensive, quality nursing care. Provide direct and indirect supervision of
all Nursing Staff/Housekeeping staff and to give them guidance and ensure
continuity of patient care on all level. Demonstrate effective communication
with patient, families, the multi-disciplinary team and other departments within
the hospital. Assist with allocation/change list, day and night duty rosters and
inputs for leave. Assist in record keeping and provide statistical information on
training and staffing. To assist in EPMDS evaluation of staff and implement
EAP. Assist in orientation, induction and monitoring of all nursing staff. To
complete patient related data and partake in research. Promote quality
specialized nursing care as directed by scope of practice and standards
determined by the relevant specialty. To assist with relief duties of the
supervisor and act as junior shift-leader on both day and night shift. To partake
in overall specialized unit functions, i.e. teambuilding. Effective and efficient
management of all resources. Work under direct supervision of Critical Care
Operational Manager. To perform intermittent haemodialysis for acute and
chronic patients within the facility. To coordinate all renal services within the
facility. To connect and monitor patients on CRRT. To work effectively with the
multidisciplinary team. Maintain Professional growth/ethical standard and self-
development. Assist in reduction of complaints within the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SC Nduli: Nursing Manager – Dr PKISMH Tel No: (031) 530 1565
APPLICATIONS : To be hand delivered to 310 Bhejane Street (Hospital Gate Number 2)
Kwamashu or Emailed To: pixley.recruitment@kznhealth.gov.za or Couriered
To: 310 Bhejane Street (Hospital Gate Number 2) Kwamashu
FOR ATTENTION : Deputy Director: HRM
NOTE : The following documents must be submitted, Application for employment form
(Z83), which is obtainable at any Government Department or form website-
www.kznhealth.gov.za. Originally signed Z83 must be accompanied by a
detailed CV. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of
current/previous work experience endorsed and stamped by Human Resource
Department & other required documents. Applications must be submitted on or
before the closing date. The reference number must be indicated in the column
provided on the form Z83 e.g. DPKISMH 14/2023. NB: Failure to comply with
the above instruction will disqualify applicants. Please note that due to the
number of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The appointment is
subject to a positive outcome obtained from NIA to the following checks
(security clearance, credit records, qualification, citizenship and previous
employment experience verifications and verification from the company
Intellectual Property (CIPC). The Department reserves the right not to fill the
post (s). All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative employer, whose aim is to
promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department. Persons with disabilities should feel free to apply for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 August 2026.
POST 27/196 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE (SPECIALTY) GRADE 1/2 REF NO: EMP01/2026
(X2 POSTS
Component: Nursing
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 530 – R752 913 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Home Owners Allowance Employee must meet prescribed
requirements), Medical aid (Optional)
CENTRE : Queen Nandi Regional Hospital (Empangeni)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12 Certificate. Degree / Diploma qualification that allows
registration to General Nursing & Midwifery plus a relevant post basic
qualification (Diploma in Advanced Midwifery & Neonatal Nursing Science).
Registration certificate with South African Nursing Council (SANC). Current
156
SANC receipt (2026). Experience required: Grade 1 is a minimum of 4 years’
experience in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse. Grade 2 is a
minimum of 14 years’ experience in nursing after registration as Professional
Nurse with SANC in General Nursing at least 10 years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate/recognizable experience in the specific specialty
after obtaining the 1 year post basic qualification in the relevant specialty.
Knowledge, Skills and Competencies Required: Knowledge of South African
Nursing Act (Act 33 of 2005) and SANC regulation. Knowledge of Public
Service Acts, regulations and policies. National Health Act. Knowledge of
nursing care processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant
legal frameworks. Knowledge of Maternity care guidelines (latest South African
guidelines). Knowledge of guidelines for saving mothers and saving babies.
Knowledge of essential steps in managing obstetric emergencies (ESMOE).
Knowledge of essential care of the new-born (ECN). Knowledge of basic Ante
Natal Care (BANC Plus) and MBFHI. Management of obstetric emergencies
(PPH, eclampsia, shoulder dystocia, cord prolapse etc). Maternal and Perinatal
death surveillance and response. Knowledge of Ideal hospital framework,
quality assurance and clinical governance. Leadership and supervision, good
communication, verbal, written, leadership, interpersonal, problem solving,
conflict management and decision-making skills. Health information systems
and recordkeeping, data analysis and use of health indicators. Knowledge and
experience in implementation of Batho Pele Principles and Patient’s Rights
Charter, Code of Conduct. Team building and diversity Management skills.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive specialist midwifery care to antenatal, intrapartum,
postnatal, and neonatal patients according to national and provincial
guidelines. Provision of quality services through setting standards, policies and
procedures. Reduction of maternal and child mortality and morbidity rate.
Initiate and lead all obstetric programs i.e. PPP, PMTCT, CARMA MBFHI,
ESMOE, etc. Manage obstetric and neonatal emergencies, initiating
appropriate treatment and timely referral where necessary. Implement
maternal and perinatal quality improvement programmes, including maternal
death reviews, perinatal mortality meetings, and clinical audits. Participate in
the implementation of National Priorities clinical guidelines, protocols.
Supervise, mentor, and support nursing staff, student nurses, and community
service nurses in the maternity unit. Exercise control over discipline, grievance
and labour relations issues. Assist in development of all nursing staff. Ensure
infection prevention and control (IPC) measures and maintain patient safety
standards. Maintain accurate patient records, statistics, and reports in
accordance with Department of Health policies. Promote maternal, new-born,
and family health education, including breastfeeding support and family
planning. Provide a Safe, therapeutic and hygienic environment for patients,
visitors and staff. Ensure availability and proper management of medicines,
equipment, and supplies within the maternity unit. Participate in continuous
professional development (CPD), research, and implementation of evidence-
based practice. Comply with legal, ethical, and professional standards,
including the Nursing Act, National Health Act, Batho Pele Principles, Patients'
Rights Charter, and other relevant policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs J Marais Tel No: (035) 907 7005
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be forwarded to: Human Resources Offices at Queen
Nandi Regional Hospital Private Bag X20005, Empangeni, 3880. Physical
Address: 21 Union Street, Empangeni, 3880. Email:
queennandihospital.hrjobapplication@kznhealth.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Deputy Director Human Resources Mr. SM Ndabandaba Tel No: (035) 907
7011
NOTE : Applicants are requested to apply with a new Z83 Application Form obtainable
at any Government Department or the website www.kznhealth.gov.za
(effective from 01.01.2021). The Z83 form must be completed in full and page
2 duly signed. Clear indication of the post and reference number that is being
applied for must be indicated on Z83. Detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV).
Information such as Educational qualifications, date(s) of registration with
council, relevant work experience and periods in service should be clearly
indicated on the CV. Applicants are not required to submit Copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application. Such documents
will be requested from shortlisted candidates only. General information: Short-
listed candidates must be available for interviews at a date and time determine
by the KZN Department of Health. The appointments are subject to positive
outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following
157
checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, and
citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of
previous experience from Employers and verification from the Company
Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). People with disabilities should feel
free to apply. Males are encouraged to apply for this post. Applicants are
respectfully informed that, if no notification is received within 3 months after the
closing date, they must consider their applications unsuccessful. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have a foreign qualification, which is the
requirement of the post, evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). All employees in the Public Service that are presently on the same
salary level but on a notch/package above of the advertised post are free to
apply. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process.
Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the interview. The social media
accounts of shortlisted applicants may be assessed. Due severe budgetary
constraints that the hospital is currently facing, candidates are respectfully
advised that the following cost-cutting measures will apply: Subsistence &
Travelling (S&T) allowance claims will not be processed. Resettlement and or
relocation claims will not be paid. The Hospital has a limited accommodation;
therefore, incumbents appointed for the post should arrange their own private
accommodation prior the assumption of duty NB: Shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit proof of work experience endorsed and stamped by the
employer/s and/or certified copies of qualifications and registration certificates
(where applicable) prior to the date of the interview.
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
POST 27/197 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GENERAL STREAM REF NO: DPKISMH 06 /2026
(X1 POST)
Component: Theatre
SALARY Grade 1: R337 359 – R397 392 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 – R485 289 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 – R635 088 per annum
Other Benefits: 13th Cheque, Medical Aid (Optional) & Housing Allowance
(Employees to meet the Prescribe requirements)
CENTRE : Dr Pixley Ka Isaka Seme Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: No experience required. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/ recognizable experience in Nursing after registration as
a Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Minimum Requirements:
Degree/Diploma qualification that allows registration to General Nursing &
Midwifery. Plus, a relevant post basic qualification in Operating Theatre
nursing. Registration certificate with South African Nursing Council (SANC)
Current SANC receipt (2026). 4 years’ experience in General Nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse. Successful candidate will have to spend
minimum of one year in service. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competence
Required: Knowledge of Public Service Acts, regulations and policies.
Knowledge of SANC rules and regulations. Knowledge of nursing care
processes and procedures, nursing statutes and other relevant legal
frameworks. Good communication, verbal, written, leadership, interpersonal,
problem solving, conflict management and decision making skills. Knowledge
and experience in implementation of Batho Pele Principles and Patient’s Rights
Charter, Code of Conduct. Team building and diversity Management skills.
Previous experience in the following disciplines would be advantageous: -
General surgery. Laparoscopic surgery Orthopaedic surgery, Recovery Room,
CSSD, Obstetric & Gynae.
DUTIES : Effective management of patients, display a concern for patients, promoting
and advocating. Proper treatment and care including awareness and
willingness to respond to patient’s needs, requirements and expectations.
Provision of quality services through setting of standards, policies and
procedures. Participate in the implementation of National Priorities clinical
guidelines, protocols. Maintain accurate and complete patient records
according to legal requirements. Exercise control over discipline, grievance
and labour relations issues. Promote good working relationships amongst staff
158
and patients. Assist in supervision and development of all nursing staff.
Reduction of maternal and child mortality and morbidity rate. Ensure effective
participation in all hospital programs e.g. IPC, Quality Assurance, etc. Provide
a Safe, therapeutic and hygienic environment for patients, visitors and staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SC Nduli: Nursing Manager – Dr PKISMH Tel No: (031) 530 1565
APPLICATIONS : To be hand delivered to 310 Bhejane Street (Hospital Gate Number 2)
Kwamashu or Emailed To: pixley.recruitment@kznhealth.gov.za or Couriered
To: 310 Bhejane Street (Hospital Gate Number 2) Kwamashu
FOR ATTENTION : Deputy Director: HRM
NOTE : The following documents must be submitted, Application for employment form
(Z83), which is obtainable at any Government Department or form website-
www.kznhealth.gov.za. Originally signed Z83 must be accompanied by a
detailed CV. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit proof of
current/previous work experience endorsed and stamped by Human Resource
Department & other required documents. Applications must be submitted on or
before the closing date. The reference number must be indicated in the column
provided on the form Z83 e.g. DPKISMH 14/2023. NB: Failure to comply with
the above instruction will disqualify applicants. Please note that due to the
number of applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged.
Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within two months after the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The appointment is
subject to a positive outcome obtained from NIA to the following checks
(security clearance, credit records, qualification, citizenship and previous
employment experience verifications and verification from the company
Intellectual Property (CIPC). The Department reserves the right not to fill the
post (s). All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. This
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative employer, whose aim is to
promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department. Persons with disabilities should feel free to apply for the post.
CLOSING DATE : 21 August 2026
POST 27/198 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A, B (CARPENTER) REF NO:
EMP03/2026 (X1 POST)
Component: Maintenance
SALARY : Grade A: R253 341 – R281 172 per annum
Grade B: R297 249 – R329 898 per annum
plus 13th Cheque, Homeowners Allowance Employee must meet prescribed
requirements), Medical aid (Optional)
CENTRE : Queen Nandi Regional Hospital (Empangeni)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10. Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in Carpentry in terms of section
13(2) (h) of the Manpower Act of 1981 as amended. Artisan Grade A: At least
0-2 years’ appropriate experience in an area after obtaining the relevant trade
certificate. Artisan Grade B: At least 14 years’ appropriate / recognisable
experience in an area after obtaining the relevant trade certificate. Valid driver’s
license. Knowledge, Skills And Competencies Required: Sound knowledge of
the Occupational Health and Safety Act 85 of 1993. Good communication skills,
Interpersonal skills and negotiation and planning. Technical report writing,
practical skills and experience of the trade. Good knowledge of hospital plant
and machinery, equipment, air conditioning, as well as gas application and gas
equipment. Good knowledge of legal compliance. Creativity and analytical
thinking, problem solving and decision-making skills. Ability to work in a team,
be customer focused and responsiveness. Computer Literacy: MS Office
Software Package and presentation skills.
DUTIES : Carry out maintenance, repairs, installation, and replacement of carpentry and
joinery works throughout the hospital and associated facilities. Repair,
manufacture, and install doors, door frames, windows, cupboards, cabinets,
counters, shelves, partitions, ceilings, roofing timber, and other wooden
structures. Install and maintain hospital furniture, fittings, fixtures, and
specialised timber components in wards, theatres, clinics, offices, and
accommodation. Repair and replace locks, hinges, door closers, handles, and
other ironmongery associated with carpentry works. Inspect buildings and
hospital infrastructure to identify defects and carry out preventative and
159
corrective maintenance. Read and interpret drawings, sketches, specifications,
and work instructions to execute carpentry projects. Operate, maintain, and
ensure the safe use of carpentry hand tools, power tools, machinery, and
workshop equipment. Manufacture timber items according to required
specifications and quality standards. Ensure compliance with the Occupational
Health and Safety Act, infection prevention and control measures, and
Departmental policies while performing maintenance activities. Respond
promptly to emergency maintenance requests to ensure continuity of
healthcare services. Inspect completed work to ensure compliance with quality
standards and building regulations. Maintain accurate job cards, maintenance
records, material usage records, and daily work reports. Assist in preparing
material estimates, specifications, quotations, and procurement requirements
for carpentry projects. Monitor and control the use of materials, tools, and
equipment, ensuring accountability and minimising wastage. Participate in
planned preventative maintenance programs and infrastructure improvement
projects. Supervise and provide guidance to Artisan Assistants, Tradesmen
Aids, interns, and learners where applicable. Work collaboratively with other
maintenance disciplines, including Electrical, Plumbing, Mechanical, Painting,
and Civil teams. Ensure good housekeeping in the carpentry workshop and
maintain tools and equipment in a safe and serviceable condition. Participate
in after-hours standby duties and emergency call-outs when required. Perform
routine inspections of hospital infrastructure to identify potential safety hazards
and maintenance requirements. Ensure compliance with the National Building
Regulations and relevant South African National Standards (SANS). Assist with
disaster recovery and emergency repairs during adverse weather events or
infrastructure failures. Promote efficient utilisation of resources and implement
cost-saving measures in maintenance operations. Mentor apprentices and
contribute to skills development within the Maintenance Department. Maintain
effective communication with users, supervisors, and contractors regarding
maintenance activities. Perform any other maintenance-related duties as
delegated by the Maintenance Supervisor, Foreman, or Chief Artisan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ME Mhlongo Tel No: (035) 907 7006
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be forwarded to: Human Resources Offices at Queen
Nandi Regional Hospital Private Bag X20005, Empangeni, 3880. Physical
Address: 21 Union Street, Empangeni, 3880. Email:
queennandihospital.hrjobapplication@kznhealth.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Deputy Director Human Resources Mr. SM Ndabandaba Tel No: (035) 907
7011
NOTE : Applicants are requested to apply with a new Z83 Application Form obtainable
at any Government Department or the website www.kznhealth.gov.za
(effective from 01.01.2021). The Z83 form must be completed in full and page
2 duly signed. Clear indication of the post and reference number that is being
applied for must be indicated on Z83. Detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV).
Information such as Educational qualifications, date(s) of registration with
council, relevant work experience and periods in service should be clearly
indicated on the CV. Applicants are not required to submit Copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application. Such documents
will be requested from shortlisted candidates only. General information: Short-
listed candidates must be available for interviews at a date and time determine
by the KZN Department of Health. The appointments are subject to positive
outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following
checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, and
citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of
previous experience from Employers and verification from the Company
Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). People with disabilities should feel
free to apply. Males are encouraged to apply for this post. Applicants are
respectfully informed that, if no notification is received within 3 months after the
closing date, they must consider their applications unsuccessful. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have a foreign qualification, which is the
requirement of the post, evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). All employees in the Public Service that are presently on the same
salary level but on a notch/package above of the advertised post are free to
apply. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process.
Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the interview. The social media
160
accounts of shortlisted applicants may be assessed. Due severe budgetary
constraints that the hospital is currently facing, candidates are respectfully
advised that the following cost-cutting measures will apply: Subsistence &
Travelling (S&T) allowance claims will not be processed. Resettlement and or
relocation claims will not be paid. The Hospital has a limited accommodation;
therefore, incumbents appointed for the post should arrange their own private
accommodation prior the assumption of duty NB: Shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit proof of work experience endorsed and stamped by the
employer/s and/or certified copies of qualifications and registration certificates
(where applicable) prior to the date of the interview.
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road Pietermaritzburg 3200. Applications can also be
submitted via the e-services system please assess this site on
(eservices.gov.za)
FOR ATTENTION : Ms SL Ngema
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. The Z83 Must Be Completed In
Full. Application must be accompanied by a detailed CV Only the provisionally
shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit supporting documents
(certified copies of qualifications, drivers license etc.) All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake to pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Applicants need to ensure that they obtain and submit
their foreign qualifications verified with SAQA if shortlisted or provisionally
shortlisted. Non-South African citizens or permanent residency holders, if
provisionally shortlisted, will be required to submit proof of citizenship. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity The Department will also conduct reference checks with HR of current
/previous employer(s) beside the references provided on CV. Candidates will
be subjected to security screening and a technical assessment. Under no
circumstances will be faxed, emailed and late applications be accepted. The
Department discourages applications that are registered and will not be held
responsible for applications sent via registered mail which are not collected
from the post office. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the
application reaches the Department timeously. Regrettably, due to excessive
budget cuts, the department is not in a position to meet any travel subsistence
costs relating to recruitment processes, or relocation and resettlement costs
for successful candidates. Should you not hear from the Department within 3
months of the closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful.
Candidates who do not comply with the above mentioned will not be
considered.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/199 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
KZNPT 26/23
This is a re-advertisement, applicants who had previously applied must apply
again.
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all- inclusive package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3 year NQF Level 7 Qualification in Architecture, Town and Regional
Planning, Quantity Surveying, Civil Engineering and Project Management in
the built environment. Training in Cost benefit analysis model building.
Professional Registration with relevant Built Environment council. 5 years
middle or senior managerial experience in a relevant infrastructure
161
environment. SMS Pre-entry Certificate prior to appointment. A valid driver’ s
licence and people living with disabilities who are without valid drives licenses
will be assisted by the department to meet work related travel obligations.
Skills, Knowledge And Competencies: Extensive working knowledge of
applicable national and provincial polices and legislation is required Advanced
Project Management. Contract Management. Financial Management.
Personnel Management. Administrative Procedures. Public Finance
Management Act (PFM). Municipal Finance Management (MFMA). Division of
Revenue Act (DoRA). Preferential Procurement Policy Framework (PPPFA).
Framework for Infrastructure Delivery and Procurement Management
(FIDPM). Broad Bases Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE). Construction
Industry Development Broad Act (CIDB). Treasury Regulation. Provincial
Growth and Development Strategy (PGDS). Provincial Spatial and Economic
Development (PSEDS). Provincial Procurement Act and regulations. Public
Finance Management Act – Best Practice National Treasury Guideline
documents. South African Fiscal and monetary policy. Provision policy priorities
Budget formulation. Code of conduct. Legislation applicable to allocated
department. Political and socio-economic environment Labour Relations Act.
Employment Equity Act. Organising. Planning. Facilitation and presentation.
Problem solving. Research. Analytical Diplomacy. Computer literacy. Time
management Conflict management Decision making. Inter-personal relation.
Verbal and written communication. Financial management. Human resource
management. Project planning and management. Policy Analysis and
development. Strategic Management.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and manage the Provincial Infrastructure portfolio Planning.
Compile the Estimates of Capital Expenditure. Monitor, Evaluate and Report
on provincial Infrastructure programmes. Support to the internal and external
stakeholders. Manage the implementation of polices. Manage Resources of
the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Kanyika Tel No: (033) 897 4426
NOTE : Preferences: Females and people with disabilities who meet the requirements.
162
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the Correct references when
applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 days after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the following posts advertised on the Public
Service Vacancy Circular 25 dated 17 July 2026, the posts of Professional
Nurse Grade 1 (PN-A2): With Midwifery (Amajuba Memorial Hospital, Gert
Sibande District) with Ref No: MPDoH/July/26/1080 and Senior Administrative
Officer: Salary Administration (Matikwana Hospital, Ehlanzeni District) with Ref
No: MPDoH/July/26/1062 with the closing date of 23 June 2026, the posts have
been withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/200 : CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1174
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : KwaMhlanga Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in a Health related field as
recognized by SAQA. Registration with relevant Professional Council (2026)
plus a Degree / Diploma in Health Management. Five (5) years’ experience in
health management service environment. Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge of
relevant legislation such as National Health Act, Public Finance Management
Act (PMFA), Public Service Act and related regulations and policies. Core
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership programme and project
163
management, financial management, change management, people
management and empowerment. Progress Competencies: Service delivery
innovation, knowledge management, problem solving and analysis,
communication, client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : To plan, direct co-ordinate and manage the efficient and effective delivery of
health / medical and administrative support services at the hospital within the
prevailing legal and statutory framework through working with the key
executive management team at the hospital, to represent the hospital
authoritatively at provincial and public forums, to provide strategic leadership
to improve operational efficiency within the health establishment to improve
health outcomes. Strategic Planning: Prepare a strategic plan for the hospital
to ensure that it is in line with the 10-point plan, national, provincial, regional
and district plans. Financial Management: Maximize revenue through
collection of all income due to the hospital, ensure that adequate policies,
systems and procedure are in place to enable prudent management of financial
resources, planning of financial resource mobilization, monitoring and
evaluation and asset and risk management. Facility Management: Ensure
business support and systems to promote optimal management of the
institution as well as optimal service delivery, ensure that systems and
procedures are in place to ensure planning and timeous maintenance of
facilities and equipment. Human Resource Management: Develop, implement
and maintain human resource management policies and guidelines, systems
and procedures that will ensure effective and efficient utilisation of human
resources, promote a safe and healthy working environment through
compliance with relevant legislation including occupation health and safety
committees. Ensure continuous development and training of personnel and
implement monitoring and evaluation of performance. Procurement and
Management of Equipment and Supplies: Implement procurement and
provisioning system that is fair, transparent, competitive and cost effective in
terms of provincial delegated authority and in line with the PFMA, ensure that
goods are and services are procured in a cost effective timely manner. Clinical
and Corporate Governance: Oversee clinical governance to ensure high
standards of patient care establish community networks and report to the
Hospital Board. Responsible for corporate governance inclusive of
infrastructure planning and maintenance as well as occupational health and
safety, manage the institution’s risk to ensure optimal achievement of health
outcomes, development and training of personnel and implement monitoring
and evaluation of performance. Procurement and Management of Equipment
and Supplies Implement a procurement and provisioning system that is fair,
transparent, competitive and cost effective in terms of provincial delegated
authority in line with PFMA, and Supply Chain Management prescripts; Ensure
that goods and services are procured in a cost effective and timely manner;
Ensure sound contract management for all contracted services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013)
766 3018.
POST 27/201 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/JULY/26/1175
SALARY : R1 041 402 - R1 121 241 per annum
CENTRE : Barberton Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer
must be able to work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
164
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability
to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional
development. Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient
standard of patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013)
766 3018.
POST 27/202 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1176
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an undergraduate relevant qualification (NQF
Level 7) in Finance / Supply Chain Management / Purchasing / Management
Accounting / Logistics / Public Administration / Public Management / Financial
Management as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ relevant
experience at supervisory / management level (ASD). A valid driver’s licence.
Knowledge: Supply Chain Framework. Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework. Departmental policies and procedures. Project Management.
General management. Strategic management. PFMA. PPPPFA. Treasury
Regulations. Skills: Leadership. Negotiating. Facilitation. Computer literacy.
Presentation. Innovative. Analytical. Verbal and written communication.
DUTIES : Develop and implement demand management frameworks and strategies,
Ensure the consolidation of the procurement requirements from programmes
in line with the strategic plan of the department timeously, Ensure a
consolidated procurement plan for goods and services with critical delivery
dates and the approval thereof on time and submission to Provincial Treasury,
Manage the implementation of Central Supplier Database; facilitation of bid
specification committee meetings; review and manage policies, instruction
notes and supply chain performance; monitor, analyse and implement SCM
policies and National Treasury instruction notes, Review and implement
sourcing strategy, Ensure sound governance and improved compliance with
supply chain management reporting requirement.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013)
766 3018.
POST 27/203 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BUDGET & EXPENDITURE REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1177 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance
/ Financial Management / Management Accounting as recognised by SAQA.
At least a minimum of three (3) years’ experience in Financial Management at
supervisory / management (Level 7/8). Proficiency in MS Excel, MS Word,
PowerPoint and MS Project. Generic Competencies: Planning and organising.
Problem solving and decision making. Coordination. Project management.
People management and empowerment. Team leadership. Client orientation
and customer focus. Diversity management. Communication (verbal and
written). Technical Competencies: Extensive knowledge in Financial
Management and Municipal Revenue Management. Comprehensive
165
knowledge and, the Division of Revenue Act (DoRA), the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Policy Development. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To manage and facilitate budgeting processes. Facilitate and manage financial
planning and budgeting processes. Compile budget estimates. Align budgets
with strategic and annual performance plans. Provide advice on budget-related
matters. Monitor expenditure against allocated budget. Confirm availability of
funds before goods and services are procured. Ensure correct SCOA
allocations are used on payment packs. Checking monthly document control
reports. Ensure all processed documents are audit compliant. Costing
operational budget requirements needs of Districts within actual expenditure
trend. Balancing of final budget allocation on BAS. Request budget /
expenditure input to quarterly erroneous allocations and authorize journal
entries. Monitor expenditure against allocated budget (programme / sub-
programme). Compile expenditure (equitable and conditional grants) reports.
Coordinate resources to internal and external audit queries and monitor the
implementation of audit recommendations. Alert the Hospital Management to
over and under expenditure trends. Monitoring of key cost drivers. Complete
accurate and updated report as per prescribed time frames.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013)
766 3018.
POST 27/204 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1182 (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Mapulaneng Hospital (X1 Post)
Rob Ferreira Hospital (X1 Post)
Themba Hospital (X1 Post)
Gert Sibande District:
Ermelo Hospital (X1 Post)
Nkangala District:
Witbank Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance
/ Financial Management / Management Accounting as recognised by SAQA.
At least a minimum of three (3) years’ experience in Financial Management at
supervisory / management (Level 7/8). Proficiency in MS Excel, MS Word,
PowerPoint and MS Project. Generic Competencies: Planning and organising.
Problem solving and decision making. Coordination. Project management.
People management and empowerment. Team leadership. Client orientation
and customer focus. Diversity management. Communication (verbal and
written). Technical Competencies: Extensive knowledge in Financial
Management and Municipal Revenue Management. Comprehensive
knowledge and, the Division of Revenue Act (DoRA), the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Policy Development. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Supporting the billing processes. Assisting with debt management and follow-
ups. Monitoring compliance with revenue management policies. Supporting
data quality improvement initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013)
766 3018.
POST 27/205 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: BUDGET & EXPENDITURE REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1183
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Matikwana Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus six (6) years relevant experience in Finance
/ Salary Administration or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance / Public
Administration / Public Management as recognised by SAQA plus three (3)
years relevant experience in Human Resource Management / Salary
Administration. At least three (3) years’ experience in the post of Chief
Administration Clerk / Administrative Officer (Level 7). Knowledge of PERSAL
System with courses will be an added advantage. Knowledge and
166
understanding of the PFMA and Treasury Regulations; knowledge and
understanding of the Basic Accounting System (BAS); good communication
(verbal and written) skills; computer literacy; problem-solving skills; planning
and organizing skills; analytical skills; liaison skills; client orientation skills;
financial management skills; presentation skills; customer care skills. Ability to
work in a team and independently. Assertiveness; and self-starter. Ability to
work under pressure and good computer literacy skills (MS Excel and MS
Word). Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : To manage and facilitate budgeting processes. Facilitate and manage financial
planning and budgeting processes. Compile budget estimates. Align budgets
with strategic and annual performance plans. Provide advice on budget-related
matters. Monitor expenditure against allocated budget. Confirm availability of
funds before goods and services are procured. Ensure correct SCOA
allocations are used on payment packs. Checking monthly document control
reports. Ensure all processed documents are audit compliant. Costing
operational budget requirements needs of Districts within actual expenditure
trend. Balancing of final budget allocation on BAS. Request budget /
expenditure input to quarterly erroneous allocations and authorize journal
entries. Monitor expenditure against allocated budget (programme / sub-
programme). Compile expenditure (equitable and conditional grants) reports.
Coordinate resources to internal and external audit queries and monitor the
implementation of audit recommendations. Alert the Hospital Management to
over and under expenditure trends. Monitoring of key cost drivers. Complete
accurate and updated report as per prescribed time frames. Supervise and
control the work of sub-ordinate in the expenditure management unit. Authorize
payments on Bas and Logis system. Understanding of all aspects of supply
chain processes. Ensuring compliance with departmental and treasury
regulations. Establish and enforce internal control measures. Manage all open
orders report (Accruals) and reconciliation of accounts. Deal with Human
resources matters such as leave and perform development system of quarterly
evaluation reports. Attend and respond to audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013)
766 3018.
POST 27/206 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1197 (X14 POSTS)
On a Three (3) Year Contract: Unemployed Graduate
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District:
Barberton Hospital (X1 Post)
Lydenburg Hospital (X1 Post)
Matibidi Hospital (X1 Post)
Matikwana Hospital (X1 Post)
Mapulaneng Hospital (X2 Posts)
Rob Ferreira Hospital (X2 Posts)
Sabie Hospital (X1 Post)
Shongwe Hospital (X1 Post)
Themba Hospital (X2 Posts)
Tintswalo Hospital (X1 Post)
Tonga Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance
/ Financial Management / Management Accounting as recognized by SAQA.
Knowledge and experience of provisioning administration, focus in the
following areas: LOGIS, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework (PPPFA),
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations and
general knowledge of Basic accounting system (BAS). Computer literacy.
Sound interpersonal and communication skills (written and verbal). Good
management and supervisory skills. Ability to work independently and tight
deadlines. Valid driver’s licence will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Supporting patient registration and billing information. Ensuring accurate
capturing of patient information. Assisting with debt management and follow –
ups. Monitoring compliance with revenue management policies. Supporting
data quality improvement initiatives.
167
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013)
766 3018.
POST 27/207 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1205 (X8 POSTS)
On a Three (3) Year Contract: Unemployed Graduate
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Nkangala District:
Bernice Samuel Hospital (X1 Post)
H A Grove Hospital (X1 Post)
Impungwe Hospital (X1 Post)
Middelburg Hospital (X1 Post)
Mmametlhake Hospital (X1 Post)
KwaMhlanga Hospital (X1 Post)
Waterval Boven Hospital (X1 Post)
Witbank Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance
/ Financial Management / Management Accounting as recognized by SAQA.
Knowledge and experience of provisioning administration, focus in the
following areas: LOGIS, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework (PPPFA),
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations and
general knowledge of Basic accounting system (BAS). Computer literacy.
Sound interpersonal and communication skills (written and verbal). Good
management and supervisory skills. Ability to work independently and tight
deadlines. Valid driver’s licence will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Supporting patient registration and billing information. Ensuring accurate
capturing of patient information. Assisting with debt management and follow –
ups. Monitoring compliance with revenue management policies. Supporting
data quality improvement initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013)
766 3018.
POST 27/208 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1215 (X10 POSTS)
On a Three (3) Year Contract: Unemployed Graduate
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
Amajuba Memorial Hospital (X1 Post)
Bethal Hospital (X1 Post)
Carolina Hospital (X1 Post)
Elsie Ballot Hospital (X1 Post)
Embhuleni Hospital (X1 Post)
Ermelo Hospital (X2 Posts)
Evander Hospital (X1 Post)
Piet Retief Hospital (X1 Post)
Standerton Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Finance
/ Financial Management / Management Accounting as recognized by SAQA.
Knowledge and experience of provisioning administration, focus in the
following areas: LOGIS, Preferential Procurement Policy Framework (PPPFA),
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations and
general knowledge of Basic accounting system (BAS). Computer literacy.
Sound interpersonal and communication skills (written and verbal). Good
management and supervisory skills. Ability to work independently and tight
deadlines. Valid driver’s licence will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Supporting patient registration and billing information. Ensuring accurate
capturing of patient information. Assisting with debt management and follow –
ups. Monitoring compliance with revenue management policies. Supporting
data quality improvement initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
168
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013)
766 3018.
POST 27/209 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): WITH MIDWIFERY REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1217 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R337 359 – R397 392 per annum
CENTRE : Elsie Ballot Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
Rob Ferreira Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) (i.e. Diploma / Degree in General Nursing) or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse (2026). Ability to function independently and to prioritise work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realisation Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organise
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013)
766 3018.
POST 27/210 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC) GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1219 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R275 340 – R310 422 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District:
Carolina Hospital
Amajuba Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus registered as Post- Basic Pharmacist
Assistant with South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) (2026). Valid work
permit will be required from non-South Africans. Skills in terms of consultations.
Knowledge of current health and public service legislation, regulations and
policies. Good communication, problem solving and conflict management
skills. Professionalism, accuracy, flexibility, independence and ethical
behaviour.
DUTIES : Ensure proper receipt recording and storage of all medicines and consumables
according to standard operating procedures handled in the area of operations.
Ensure responsibility and accountability for safe patient medicine use.
Compounding and preparation of any medicines as delegated. Promote correct
evaluation prescriptions and legal processing of medicine prescription,
stocktaking and distribution of supplies to the client. Promotion of Public
Health. Ensure accurate recording of statistics and administrative requirements
as required by policy.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013)
766 3018.
POST 27/211 : SESSIONAL MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/JULY/26/1220
One (1) Year Contract (20 Sessions)
SALARY : R501.00 per hour, (Less than 5 years relevant experience)
169
R572.00 per hour, (At least 5 years, but less than 10 years, relevant
experience)
R662.00 per hour, (10 years and more relevant experience)
CENTRE : Bernice Samuel Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Officer (2026). A valid work
permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical
ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the
respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service
regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga Tel No: (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile
Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013)
766 3018.
170
ANNEXURE X
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT AGRICULTURE, ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS, RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND LAND REFORM
APPLICATIONS : Post Name and quote the relevant reference number. The applications can be
posted to: Department of Agriculture, Environmental Affairs, Rural
Development and Land Reform, Private Bag X5018, Kimberley, 8301 or Email
to: blommiejacobs@ncpg.gov.za or Hand delivered applications may be
submitted at reception, Temothuo House, Old Kimberlite Hotel, 162 George
Street, Kimberley.
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs. L. Phayane
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Failure to do so,
your application will be disqualified. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied
by its own application form for employment and must be fully completed,
initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully
complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on
the Z83 it is acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached.
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part “F” must be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated
comprehensive CV (with detailed previous experience if any) and a completed
and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other related
documents on or before the day of the interview following the communication
from Human Resources and such qualification(s) and other related
document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The
Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply
with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications
received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Correspondence
will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). Please note by responding to the
advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and storing of your
Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA) Your information will be used solely for the purpose of this
promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior consent unless
required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The successful candidate will
be expected to sign a performance agreement. The Department is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the
Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
this post(s).
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/212 : CANDIDATE ENGINEER REF NO: DAERL/04/06/26
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to apply again.
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (all-inclusive package), (OSD)
171
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : The candidate must be in possession of a NQF Level 7 BSc Civil/ Agricultural
Engineering qualification; Compulsory ECSA registration as a Candidate
Engineer. Relevant experience in the field of engineering sector will be an
added advantage. Good written and verbal communication skills. Computer
literate, be able to work on the following software’s, Microsoft Office, Power
point. Excellent interpersonal relation skills, Ability to handle tasks of a multi-
faceted nature, Sound communication skills both verbal and written, Problem
solving skills. Valid drivers’ license – minimum code 8.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Design,
construction and contract management of irrigation systems, crop processing
plants, packaging facilities, animal housing, green houses, farm mechanization
(tractors and relevant planters and implements) and other farm structures.
Knowledge of Model Maker design program, AUTOCAD, surveying with
Trimble GPS and processing with Trimble Business Centre survey programs
will be an advantage. Good written and verbal communication skills. Computer
literate, be able to work on the following software programs, Microsoft Office
and Power Point. Excellent interpersonal relation skills, ability to handle tasks
of a multi-faceted nature, sound communication skills both verbal, working
under pressure with deadlines and written, problem solving. Technical and
engineering skills would be expected in agricultural development support
programs, i.e. CASP, ILLIMA LETSEMA and Land Care. Travel and working in
other remote areas in Northern Cape would be expected from the successful
candidate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WJJ De Bruyn at 083 292 0386
POST 27/213 : SECRETARY TO DIRECTOR: BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DAERL/04/08/26
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to apply again.
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate with at least 2 years’ experience working as a secretary;
Knowledge of procedures and process applied in office management; must be
computer literate (Ms Word, power point, excel, Ms Outlook and the use of
internet), Communication skills (verbal and written) and the ability to
communicate well with persons at different levels and from different
backgrounds; Ability to perform under pressure. General office administration,
document and file management. Willingness to occasionally work after hours
when required. Ability to organize/prioritize tasks and effectively manage time.
Knowledge of departmental policies and procedures. A Valid Driver’s license
will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Render a secretarial/ receptionist support service to the Senior Manager;
Receive and screen telephone calls for the Senior Manager; Manage the diary
of the Senior Manager and prioritize appointments if necessary; Plan, organize,
co-ordinate and manage documentation flow in the office of the Senior
Manager; Perform advanced typing work; Operate and ensure that office
equipment, e.g. fax machine and photocopier are in a good working order;
Ensure that guests are received in such a way as to enhance the professional
image of the Office. Provide logistical support to the Senior Manager and/ or
the component (travel, accommodation and processing of claims); Arrange
meetings, workshops and events for the Senior Manager and other staff in the
Unit, identify venues, invite role players, organize refreshments and ensure that
all relevant documentation is available; Prepare agendas and record minutes
of meetings of the manager and the Unit; Draft letters, memorandums and
compile reports. Do filing of documents; Administer leave registers; Collect
and/or co-ordinate information for the Senior Manager, as required, peruse
agendas and meeting documents to identify relevant documentation that need
to be available to the manager for the meeting. Remain up to date with regard
to the applicable prescripts/ policies and procedures applicable to his/ her work
terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A. Abrahams at 072 395 7676
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates within the respective districts.
172
POST 27/214 : SECRETARY TO DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT REF
NO: DAERL/04/9/26
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to apply again.
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Knowledge of procedures and process applied in office management; must be
computer literate (Ms Word, power point, excel, Ms Outlook and the use of
internet), Communication skills (verbal and written) and the ability to
communicate well with persons at different levels and from different
backgrounds; Ability to perform under pressure. General office administration,
document and file management. Willingness to occasionally work after hours
when required. Ability to organize/prioritize tasks and effectively manage time.
Knowledge of departmental policies and procedures. A Valid Driver’s Licence
will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Render a secretarial/ receptionist support service to the Senior Manager;
Receive and screen telephone calls for the Senior Manager; Manage the diary
of the Senior Manager and prioritize appointments if necessary; Plan, organize,
co-ordinate and manage documentation flow in the office of the Senior
Manager; Perform advanced typing work; Operate and ensure that office
equipment, e.g. fax machine and photocopier are in a good working order;
Ensure that guests are received in such a way as to enhance the professional
image of the Office. Provide logistical support to the Senior Manager and/ or
the component (travel, accommodation and processing of claims); Arrange
meetings, workshops and events for the Senior Manager and other staff in the
Unit, identify venues, invite role players, organize refreshments and ensure that
all relevant documentation is available; Prepare agendas and record minutes
of meetings of the manager and the Unit; Draft letters, memorandums and
compile reports. Do filing of documents; Administer leave registers; Collect
and/or co-ordinate information for the Senior Manager, as required, peruse
agendas and meeting documents to identify relevant documentation that need
to be available to the manager for the meeting. Remain up to date with regard
to the applicable prescripts/ policies and procedures applicable to his/ her work
terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. O.T. Gaorelwe at 066 470 4334
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates within the respective districts.
POST 27/215 : SECRETARY TO DIRECTOR: ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT
REF NO: DAERL/04/10/26
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to apply again.
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate with at least 2 years’ experience working as a secretary;
Knowledge of procedures and process applied in office management; must be
computer literate (Ms Word, power point, excel, Ms Outlook and the use of
internet), Communication skills (verbal and written) and the ability to
communicate well with persons at different levels and from different
backgrounds; Ability to perform under pressure. General office administration,
document and file management. Willingness to occasionally work after hours
when required. Ability to organize/prioritize tasks and effectively manage time.
Knowledge of departmental policies and procedures. A Valid Driver’s license
will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Render a secretarial / receptionist support service to the Senior Manager;
Receive and screen telephone calls for the Senior Manager; Manage the diary
of the Senior Manager and prioritize appointments if necessary; Plan, organize,
co-ordinate and manage documentation flow in the office of the Senior
Manager; Perform advanced typing work; Operate and ensure that office
equipment, e.g. fax machine and photocopier are in a good working order;
Ensure that guests are received in such a way as to enhance the professional
image of the Office. Provide logistical support to the Senior Manager and/ or
the component (travel, accommodation and processing of claims); Arrange
meetings, workshops and events for the Senior Manager and other staff in the
Unit, identify venues, invite role players, organize refreshments and ensure that
all relevant documentation is available; Prepare agendas and record minutes
of meetings of the manager and the Unit; Draft letters, memorandums and
compile reports. Do filing of documents; Administer leave registers; Collect
173
and/or co-ordinate information for the Senior Manager, as required, peruse
agendas and meeting documents to identify relevant documentation that need
to be available to the manager for the meeting. Remain up to date with regard
to the applicable prescripts/ policies and procedures applicable to his/ her work
terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B. Fisher at 082 463 0224
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates within the respective districts.
POST 27/216 : SECRETARY TO DIRECTOR: AGRICULTURAL PRODUCER SUPPORT
REF NO: DAERL/04/11/26
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to apply again.
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate with at least 2 years’ experience working as a secretary;
Knowledge of procedures and process applied in office management; must be
computer literate (Ms Word, power point, excel, Ms Outlook and the use of
internet), Communication skills (verbal and written) and the ability to
communicate well with persons at different levels and from different
backgrounds; Ability to perform under pressure. General office administration,
document and file management. Willingness to occasionally work after hours
when required. Ability to organize/prioritize tasks and effectively manage time.
Knowledge of departmental policies and procedures. A Valid Driver’s license
will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Render a secretarial/ receptionist support service to the Senior Manager;
Receive and screen telephone calls for the Senior Manager; Manage the diary
of the Senior Manager and prioritize appointments if necessary; Plan, organize,
co-ordinate and manage documentation flow in the office of the Senior
Manager; Perform advanced typing work; Operate and ensure that office
equipment, e.g. fax machine and photocopier are in a good working order;
Ensure that guests are received in such a way as to enhance the professional
image of the Office. Provide logistical support to the Senior Manager and/ or
the component (travel, accommodation and processing of claims); Arrange
meetings, workshops and events for the Senior Manager and other staff in the
Unit, identify venues, invite role players, organize refreshments and ensure that
all relevant documentation is available; Prepare agendas and record minutes
of meetings of the manager and the Unit; Draft letters, memorandums and
compile reports. Taking minutes in meetings and minute writing. Do filing of
documents; Administer leave registers; Collect and/or co-ordinate information
for the Senior Manager, as required, peruse agendas and meeting documents
to identify relevant documentation that need to be available to the manager for
the meeting. Remain up to date with regard to the applicable prescripts/
policies and procedures applicable to his/ her work terrain to ensure efficient
and effective support to the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L. Senosi at 082 559 6648
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates within the respective districts.
POST 27/217 : SECRETARY TO DIRECTOR: VETERINARY SERVICES REF NO:
DAERL/04/12/26
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to apply again.
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate with at least 2 years’ experience working as a secretary;
Knowledge of procedures and process applied in office management; must be
computer literate (Ms Word, power point, excel, Ms Outlook and the use of
internet), Communication skills (verbal and written) and the ability to
communicate well with persons at different levels and from different
backgrounds; Ability to perform under pressure. General office administration,
document and file management. Willingness to occasionally work after hours
when required. Ability to organize/prioritize tasks and effectively manage time.
Knowledge of departmental policies and procedures. A Valid Driver’s license
will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Render a secretarial/ receptionist support service to the Senior Manager;
Receive and screen telephone calls for the Senior Manager; Manage the diary
of the Senior Manager and prioritize appointments if necessary; Plan, organize,
co-ordinate and manage documentation flow in the office of the Senior
174
Manager; Perform advanced typing work; Operate and ensure that office
equipment, e.g. fax machine and photocopier are in a good working order;
Ensure that guests are received in such a way as to enhance the professional
image of the Office. Provide logistical support to the Senior Manager and/ or
the component (travel, accommodation and processing of claims); Arrange
meetings, workshops and events for the Senior Manager and other staff in the
Unit, identify venues, invite role players, organize refreshments and ensure that
all relevant documentation is available; Prepare agendas and record minutes
of meetings of the manager and the Unit; Draft letters, memorandums and
compile reports. Do filing of documents; Administer leave registers; Collect
and/or co-ordinate information for the Senior Manager, as required, peruse
agendas and meeting documents to identify relevant documentation that need
to be available to the manager for the meeting. Remain up to date with regard
to the applicable prescripts/ policies and procedures applicable to his/ her work
terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. M Letsie at 083 291 9974
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates within the respective districts.
POST 27/218 : SENIOR FIELD RANGER REF NO: DAERL/04/13/26
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to apply again.
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Goegap Nature Reserve
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 Certificate with proven 3 years’ experience in a Field Ranger
environment and a Code EB driver’s license are the minimum requirements for
appointment. Computer literacy will be an added advantage. After appointment
the EMI course must be completed with designation as a Grade 5 EMI official.
DUTIES : Assist with the protection of the Reserve and its natural environment resources
(Plan and conduct nature conservation patrols; Inspect ad repair boundary
fence; Warn visitors on unauthorized actions within the reserves and report
non-compliance; and assist with fire management services, maintain the fire
belts along fences and facilities, conduct block burns); Assist with monitoring
of ecological processes, habitats and biodiversity in the reserves; (Gather
biological and ecological data, Report on areas for rehabilitation; and monitor
rehabilitation areas) Assist with the monitoring and control of recreational
facilities (Control and monitoring of recreational activities; and maintenance of
recreational facilities); Communicate with visitors to promote the value and use
of the reserve (Plan and execute educational programmes, arrange the
necessary equipment for and conduct presentation); Perform all administrative
and related function which would include the following (Perform all
administrative duties emanating from field ranger responsibilities, issuance of
permits, writing of reports)
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Mathebula at 082 308 4371
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates within the respective districts.
POST 27/219 : CLEANER: AGRICULTURAL PRODUCER SUPPORT REF NO:
DAERL/04/14/26
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to apply again.
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Kuruman (Mothibistad)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be self-motivated and well-organized individual, and no formal
qualifications are required. Basic Literacy and communication skills will be an
added advantage in the filling of this post. Previous cleaning experience will
be an advantage; Ability to work independently and as part of a team; Good
time management and attention to detail; Trustworthy, punctual, and
professional.
DUTIES : Cleaning offices, corridors, restrooms, and common areas; Sweeping,
mopping, vacuuming, and dusting surfaces; Emptying bins and ensuring
proper waste disposal; Maintaining cleaning equipment and supplies;
Reporting any maintenance or safety issues; Operate additional function when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Jr. Kalakgosi at 082 734 4687
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates within the respective districts.
175
POST 27/220 : CLEANER: AGRICULTURAL PRODUCER SUPPORT REF NO:
DAERL/04/15/26
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to apply again.
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Upington
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be self-motivated and well-organized individual, and no formal
qualifications are required. Basic Literacy and communication skills will be an
added advantage in the filling of this post. Previous cleaning experience will
be an advantage; Ability to work independently and as part of a team; Good
time management and attention to detail; Trustworthy, punctual, and
professional.
DUTIES : Cleaning offices, corridors, restrooms, and common areas; Sweeping,
mopping, vacuuming, and dusting surfaces; Emptying bins and ensuring
proper waste disposal; Maintaining cleaning equipment and supplies;
Reporting any maintenance or safety issues; Operate additional function when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. A. Majaja at 082 560 8455
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates within the respective districts.
POST 27/221 : GENERAL ASSISTANT REF NO: DAERL/04/16/26
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to apply again.
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Goegap Nature Reserve
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 10 Certificate; with code 10 driver’s license. Candidate to be physically
fit and able to work in extreme working conditions (heat, cold, in the veld with
limited or no communication); must be able to function well in a team and
execute orders.
DUTIES : Perform physical maintenance of roads, fences, hiking trails and reserve
vehicles; Perform physical maintenance of Goegap Nature Reserve building
infrastructure and visitor facilities; Perform physical routine maintenance on
Goegap Nature Reserve’s operational equipment and reserve vehicles;
Provide physical assistance in the management of the ecology of the Goegap
Nature Reserve; perform all administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Mathebula at 082 308 4371
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates within the respective districts.
POST 27/222 : GATE GUARD REF NO: DAERL/04/17/26
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to apply again.
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Rolfontein Nature Reserve
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 10 Certificate with some proven experience in tourism and/ or security
management. A valid Code E driver’s license. The incumbent must be
comfortable to work a revised schedule.
DUTIES : The candidate will provide a supporting role to the management to the reserve
by: Receive and interact with visitors to the Rolfontein Nature Reserve; Provide
public interaction and convey information about the reserve; Receipt and
handling of revenue at Rolfontein Nature Reserve; Collection and control of
revenue at entrance gate; Maintain of Rolfontein Nature Reserve building
infrastructure; Provide assistance to Rolfontein Nature Reserve maintenance
team in the maintenance of roads, hiking trails and reserve structure; Provide
manual labour, maintenance of reserve infrastructure; Provide assistance with
rehabilitation and landscaping programmes; Perform all administrative and
related functions; Attend meetings; Attend training courses; Keep up to date
with general labour related issues; Complete and maintain tourist information
profiles and relevant reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T. Mathebula at 082 308 4371
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates within the respective districts.
POST 27/223 : GENERAL ASSISTANT: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO:
DAERL/04/18/26 (X2 POSTS)
Re-advertisement, previous applicants are encouraged to apply again.
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Kimberley
176
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent qualification; Previous experience in a similar role will
be an advantage; Good physical health and ability to perform manual tasks;
Basic understanding of office procedures; Ability to follow instructions and work
independently; Good communication and teamwork skills.
DUTIES : Perform general cleaning and maintenance of the yard and surrounding areas;
Assist with loading, unloading, and organizing materials and equipment; Carry
out basic gardening and upkeep duties; Provide support with office tasks such
as filing, photocopying, and document distribution; Assist with moving office
furniture and equipment when required; Ensure tools and equipment are
properly stored and maintained; Follow health and safety regulations at all
times
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L. Phayane at 067 166 2580
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates within the respective districts.
Preference will be given to males.
177
ANNEXURE Y
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : (Hand Delivery): All posts attached to Provincial Office: should be
addressed to: The Director: Human Capital Management. Department of Social
Development hand delivered to Ground Floor, Provident House Building,
University Drive, Mmabatho, 2735. For attention: Mr L Segole. The E-mailed
applications will be accepted or considered.
All posts attached to Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati District: should be
addressed to: The District Director: Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati. Department
of Social Development, hand delivered to: Dr RSM District Office, Corner North
& Molopo Street, Vryburg. For attention: Ms R Melore. The E-mailed
applications will be accepted or considered.
All posts attached to Ngaka Modiri Molema District: should be addressed
to: The District Director: Ngaka Modiri Molema. Department of Social
Development, hand delivered to: Ngaka Modiri Molema District Office, Corner
Nelson Mandela Drive & Martin Street, Mahikeng. For attention: Mr. BR
Mogorosi. The E-mailed applications will be accepted or considered.
All posts attached to DR Kenneth Kaunda District: should be addressed to:
The District Director: Dr Kenneth Kaunda, Department of Social Development,
hand delivered 91 OR Tambo street Klerksdorp Cnr Johanna Van Der Merwe
Street. For Attention: Ms N Tamele. The E-mailed applications will be accepted
or considered.
All posts attached to Bojanala District: should be addressed to: The District
Director: Bojanala District, Department of Social Development, hand delivered
at Office number 12, Kgwebo Drive, Mabe Office Park, Rustenburg. For
Attention: Ms NB. Modise. The E-mailed applications will be accepted or
considered.
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026 15H30
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae via e-
mail or hand delivery. On the subject line of your e-mail, indicate the correct
name of the post and the reference number include the department, also use
the correct e-mail. All attachments for online submission must include the Z83
form and updated Curriculum Vitae only be in PDF Format, also as one
document. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Compliance: It
is compulsory to fill all fields on the New Amended Z83 Form (81/971431) as
prescribed with effect 01 January 2021, part of declaration must be signed,
dated and initialed only on the first page. The Form is obtainable at any Public
Service Departments and DPSA Website, www.dpsa.gov.za. Part A the
applicant(s) must indicate the correct advertised Post name and Centre,
Reference number. The Z83 Form must be accompanied by a recently updated
Curriculum Vitae with full personal details, qualifications current and previous
experience must be listed in date’s order, with relevant requirements of the post
including three (3) names of contactable referees. Part B, C and D applicant
must provide sufficient information relevant to the post applying for. Parts B, C
and E fields for date of birth, work permit, business interest and preferred
language, current study can be left blank, mark them as not relevant, and uses
dashes or N/A if they don’t apply to you. Part E, F and G may not be fill if your
CV already has the updated information. Applicant can skip experience
section, but Part F is compulsory to be completed if you are seeking re-
employment into the Public Service. Please note: It is a responsibility of a
Person in possession of a foreign qualification to furnish the Department with
an evaluation certificate from South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA)
only when shortlisted. Only shortlisted candidate(s) for post will be required to
submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview. NB:
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service (SMS Pre Entry
Certificate) is required prior to finalisation of an appointment into any SMS post.
For more details on the pre-entry course visit: https:
www.thensg.gov.za/training -course/sms-pre-entry programme. Note: All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. NB: All shortlisted candidates including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
178
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process.
Applications received after the closing date will, as a rule will not be accepted.
It will be expected of candidates to be available for interview process on a date,
time and place as determined by the Department. Applicant(s) previous
background/reference checks will be verified through contactable referees.
Shortlisted candidate(s) will be required to undergo personnel suitability
checks, which include criminal records, citizenship, financial credits, asset
records, qualifications verification and vetting. The successful candidate will
enter into an annual performance agreement. The candidate annually will be
requested to disclose his/her financial interest. The Department reserves the
right not to make appointment. Applicant requiring additional information
regarding advertised post must direct their enquiries to the relevant person
indicated. NB: Communication and Correspondence will be limited to short
listed candidates only. If you have not heard from us within six (3) months after
the closing date, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful.
Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours. NB:
Regrettably due to excessive budget cuts, the department is not in a position
to mee any travel and subsistence costs relating to the recruitment process for
the shortlisted candidates.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 27/224 : CHIEF DIRECTOR DISTRICTS AND INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
MANAGEMENT REF NO: SD/1/1/26/E
Chief Directorate: Districts and Institutional Support Management
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic salary contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund, a medical fund, and a flexible
portion in terms of applicable rules.
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Mahikeng)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised by SAQA
in Management / Public Administration / Social Science / Public
Management/Project Management. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a
senior managerial level or equivalent to SMS level from other sectors. A valid
driver’s license. Nyukela certificate is required for all SMS positions before
appointment (Certificate for entry into the senior management service from the
National School of Government). Knowledge: Service delivery innovation,
Problem Solving and Analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication, Strategic Capacity and Leadership, People Management and
Empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management, Programme
and Project Management. In-depth knowledge and understanding of corporate
services management in public service. PFMA. Public Service Act and
Regulations, Policy Formulation, Project Management, Labour Relations
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership skills. Programme and
project management skills. Strong financial management skills, change
management, problem-solving and conflict management skills. People
management and empowerment skills. Client orientation, customer focus and
communication skills. Honesty and integrity, knowledge management,
networking, presentation skills and computer skills. Excellent in-depth
knowledge and insight into all applicable policy frameworks governing the
public sector and the social development environment.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and management to the following programmes:
District Coordination (district offices, service points, sub-offices) Institution
Management (institutions and facilities). Manage and facilitate the
implementation of Corporate Services. Manage and facilitate the
implementation of Finance Administration and Management. Manage and
facilitate the implementation of Social Welfare Services. Manage and facilitate
the implementation of Specialist Social Services. Manage and facilitate the
implementation of Development and Research. Liaise and account to
Government oversight structures. Liaise with key departmental partners.
Develop and maintain social contact with the service beneficiaries of the
Department. Establish and maintain good intergovernmental relations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MP Mhlongo- Kgaboesele Tel No: (018) 388 2043/1668
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
179
NOTE : The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement
within 3 months of appointment.
POST 27/225 : DIRECTOR: SPECIAL NEEDS REF NO: SD/1/12/26/E
Chief Directorate: Integrated Social Welfare
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic salary contribution to
the Government Employees Pension Fund, a medical fund, and a flexible
portion in terms of applicable rules.
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Mahikeng)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised by SAQA
in Social Work. A minimum of 5 years relevant experience at a middle/senior
management level or equivalent to SMS level from other sectors. A valid
driver’s license. Nyukela certificate is required for all SMS positions before
appointment (Certificate for entry into the senior management service from the
National School of Government). Knowledge: Service delivery innovation,
Problem Solving and Analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication, Strategic Capacity and Leadership, People Management and
Empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management, Programme
and Project Management. In-depth knowledge and understanding of corporate
services management in public service. PFMA. Public Service Act and
Regulations, Policy Formulation, Project Management, Labour Relations
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership skills. Programme and
project management skills. Strong financial management skills, change
management, problem-solving and conflict management skills. People
management and empowerment skills. Client orientation, customer focus and
communication skills. Honesty and integrity, knowledge management,
networking, presentation skills and computer skills. Excellent in-depth
knowledge and insight into all applicable policy frameworks governing the
public sector and the social development environment.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and management to the following programmes:
District Coordination (district offices, service points, sub-offices) Institution
Management (institutions and facilities). Manage and facilitate the
implementation of Corporate Services. Manage and facilitate the
implementation of Finance, Administration, and Management. Manage and
facilitate the implementation of Social Welfare Services. Manage and facilitate
the implementation of Specialist Social Services. Manage and facilitate the
implementation of Development and Research. Liaise and account to
Government oversight structures. Liaise with key departmental partners.
Develop and maintain social contact with the service beneficiaries of the
Department. Establish and maintain good intergovernmental relations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MP Mhlongo-Kgaboesele Tel No: (018) 388 2043/1668
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
NOTE : The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement
within 3 months of appointment
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/226 : SERVICE POINT MANAGER REF NO: SD/ 1/4/26/E
Chief Directorate: Districts and Institutional Support Management
Directorate: Dr Kenneth Kaunda Districts and Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati
Districts
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum
CENTRE : Kagisano Molopo (Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati) (X2 Posts)
Maquassi Hills Service Points (Dr Kenneth Kaunda) (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate. Bachelor’s degree Social Work / Honours Degree/Post
Grad Diploma (NQF 7/8) Social Sciences/ Public Administration / Public
Management qualifications as recognised by SAQA. A minimum 5 – 10 years
relevant experience of which 3 must be at Junior Management. Registration
with the SACCP council will be added as advantage. Computer literacy. Valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide Social Work and Community Development Services within the Service
Points through the promotion of social change, problem solving in human
relations and with the care, support, protection and development of vulnerable
individual, groups, families and communities through relevant programmes in
180
partnership with stakeholders. Facilitate the development and planning of
programmes and interventions to render social work and community
development service through the efficient, economical and effective utilization
of financial resources. Plan and ensure that social work and community
development research, situational analysis and profiling are undertaken to
determine interventions in the defined areas. Ensure control of quality of work
delivered. Monitor and evaluate services and quality control the work delivered
by all staff in the service point. Manage provision of corporate and financial
management services in the service point strategic plan, annual performance
plan, operational plan and services delivery improvement plan within public
service framework. Ensure Performance management, people empowerment
and resource management. Ensure effective stakeholder relations
management in partnership and collaboration with other departments & non-
government institutions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Kgobe at 060 954 5997 (Dr KK District)
Mr M Madienyane Tel No: (053) 928 0116 (Dr RSM District)
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentKK@nwpg.gov.za
E-mail: SDRecruitmentRSM@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/227 : SOCIAL WORK MANAGER GRADE 1 REF NO: SD /1/3/26/E
Chief Directorate: District Coordination and Institutional Support Management
SALARY : R1 009 512 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package), (salary will be
in accordance with OSD determination)
CENTRE : Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Bachelor’s Degree in Social Work (NQF Level 7). A minimum of 10
years' recognizable experience in Social Worker. Registration with the
SACSSP Council. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license. Competencies:
Good Communication skills. Report writing skills. Facilitation skills. Co-
ordination skills. Liaison skills. Networking. Interpersonal skills. Leadership
skills. Analytical skills. Diplomacy. Change and knowledge management.
Planning and organization skills. People Management. Financial Management.
Problem Solving, Planning & organizing. Time Management. Team player.
Strategic Planning. Policy analysis and development.
DUTIES : Ensure that Social Work Service is provided through the promotion of Social
Change, problem solving in human relationships and empowerment of people
to enhance wellbeing. Facilitate the development and planning of Programmes
and Interventions to render Social Work Services through the efficient,
economical and effective use of resources. Manage Social Work unit to ensure
efficient and effective social work service is delivered through utilization of
resources (human, finance and equipment) in accordance with relevant
directives and legislation. Provide integrated social work services within the
defined areas regarding care, protection and development of vulnerable
groups in partnership and collaboration with relevant stakeholders Health,
Correctional Services, South African Police Services and other departments.
Evaluate and Monitor compliance to policies, and transversal social work
services norms and standards, South African Council for Social Service
Professions (SACSSP) and other relevant legislating policies and procedures.
Keep up to date new developments in the Social Work and Management fields
and continuous professional development through inter-sectoral collaboration
and stakeholder management and ensure that the department contributes to
integrated services delivery.
ENQUIIRIES : Mr M Madienyane Tel No: (053) 928 0111 (Dr RSM District)
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentRSM@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/228 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT AND CORDINATION
REF NO: SD/1/5/26/E
Directorate: Mec Support
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic salary contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund, a medical fund, and a flexible portion
in terms of applicable rules.
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Mahikeng)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Diploma (NQFL 6) or Bachelor’s Degree / Advanced
Diploma (NQF L 7) as recognised by SAQA in Public Administration / Public
Management. 3 – 5 years proven experience in the field, of which 3 years must
181
be Assistant Director level. A valid driver’s license. Experience in rendering
service in the Executive Authority’s Office environment will be an added
advantage. Competence: Knowledge: Broad knowledge and understanding of
the functional areas covered by the executive authority’s portfolio. Proven
management competencies. Working knowledge of the political and
parliamentary processes in South Africa. Knowledge of Public Service
Regulations. Skills: Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Problem
Solving, Analytical skills, Good Communication skills (written and verbal),
Interpersonal Skills, Presentation Skills, Report Writing skills, Conflict
resolution skills. Good planning and organizing skills. Ability to work under
pressure. Knowledge: Management, Service delivery innovation, Problem
Solving and Analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication,
Strategic Capacity and Leadership, People Management and Empowerment,
Financial Management, Change Management, Programme and Project
Management. In-depth knowledge and understanding of corporate services
management in public service.
DUTIES : Manage the administrative and coordination activities within the office of the
executive authority. Develop, implement and maintain systems, registers and
databases to monitor and manage the flow of documents to, from and within
the office of the executive authority. Coordinate the procurement and
maintenance of equipment and administer the budget in the office of the
executive authority. Manage the registry of the office of the executive authority.
Ensure that documents are classified in accordance with the MIS prescripts
and are handled in accordance with their classification. Liaise with senior
managers in the institutions within the executive authority’s portfolio. Co-
ordinate the activities of the executive authority’s office. Render an executive
council support service to the executive authority.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. TE Chaane Tel No: (018) 388 5188
APPLICATIONS : Mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/229 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: YOUTH DEVELOPMENT REF NO: SD/1/6/26/E
Chief Directorate: Community Development
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive remuneration package). The
inclusive remuneration package consists of a basic salary contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund, a medical fund, and a flexible portion
in terms of applicable rules.
CENTRE : Provincial Office (Mahikeng)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Advanced Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) as
recognised by SAQA in Youth Development/ Community Development / Public
Administration / Public Management. 3 – 5 years proven experience in the field,
of which 3 years must be Assistant Director level. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Management, Service delivery innovation, Problem Solving and
Analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication, Strategic
Capacity and Leadership, People Management and Empowerment, Financial
Management, Change Management, Programme and Project Management.
In-depth knowledge and understanding of corporate services management in
public service. Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership skills.
Programme and project management skills, change management, problem-
solving and conflict management skills. Presentation Skill, People
management and empowerment skills. Client orientation, customer focus and
communication skills. Honesty and integrity, knowledge management,
networking, presentation skills and computer skills. Excellent in-depth
knowledge and insight into all applicable policy frameworks governing the
public sector and the social development environment.
DUTIES : Develop and manage youth development and empowerment strategies and
programmes. Monitor the implementation of special programmes for youth
development. Provide project management support to youth organisations.
Facilitate the transformation of residential care services. Manage the youth
development budget, as well as human and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Adv SA Dikole Tel No: (018) 388 2989/ 5092
APPLICATIONS : Mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
182
POST 27/230 : ASSISTANT MANAGER COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT GRADE 1 REF NO:
SD/1/7/26/E (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: District Coordination and Institutional Support Management
Directorate: Bojanala and Dr Kenneth Kaunda Districts
SALARY : R626 454 per annum, (salary will be in accordance with OSD determination)
CENTRE : Moretele (Bojanala)
Maquassi Hills Service Points (Dr Kenneth Kaunda)
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree in Community Development/ Developmental Studies or
Social Science. A minimum of 8 years recognisable experience in Community
Development after obtaining the required qualification. Computer literacy. A
valid driver’s license. Competencies: Knowledge of human behaviour and
social systems. Understanding community dynamics. Networking and
establishing partnerships. Understanding community development
programmes. Community Development research. Understanding community
development legislation. Planning and organising; Networking skills;
Communication (written and verbal); Project Management; Team leadership.
People management. Conflict management. Project management. Financial
Management. Keeping abreast with new developments in the community
development fields to enhance service delivery. Knowledge of policies and
legislative mandates related to Community Development.
DUTIES : Coordinate the identification, facilitation, and implementation of integrated
development interventions/ programs in partnership with other relevant
stakeholders through effective and economic utilisation of resources. Conduct
research relating to community development work. Interpret, implement and
give guidance on policies, legislation related to community development.
Manage relations with all relevant role players, internal and external.
Monitoring and evaluation of programmes. Manage resources (human,
financial, assets). Ensure the provision of sound partnership mobilisation
systems.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Motshedi at 060 954 9878
Ms A Nel Tel No: 066 095 1508
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentBOJ@nwpg.gov.za
E-mail: SDRecruitmentKK@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/231 : OPERATIONAL NURSING MANAGER NURSING (GENERAL NURSING)
GRADE 1 REF NO: SD/1/8/26/E
Chief Directorate: Districts and Institutional Support Management
Directorate: Districts and Service Points
SALARY : R571 161 per annum, (salary will be in accordance with OSD determination)
CENTRE : Sonop Old Age Home
REQUIREMENTS : Basic qualification (i.e. Diploma/Degree in nursing). Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Valid driver’s license. Competencies: Report writing,
Planning and organising skills, time management, good communication and
interpersonal skills, computer literacy, teamwork and collaboration skills. Work
ethics.
DUTIES : Manage, control and act in facets of health, support, security, cleaning,
infection control and ground services. Personnel matters including supervision
and Performance Management, Finances and Procurement, as well as
implementing policies, prescripts and protocols regarding the mentioned
facets. Manage planning to practice a holistic Health Service on a short-
/medium-/long-term basis. Render Clinical services and organise a cost-
effective service daily. Ensure that all personnel undergo training according to
their Individual Development and Performance Plan. Participate in community
involvement. Collect and verify submission of accurate statistics timeously and
give continuous positive support to the Facility Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Nhlapo Tel No: (012) 256 6637/38
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentBOJ@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/232 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 REF NO: SD/1/9/26/E (X5 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Districts And Institutional Support Management
Directorate: Districts and Service Points
SALARY : R496 668 per annum, (salary will be in accordance with OSD determination)
183
CENTRE : Mahikeng (Ngaka Modiri Molema District) (X1 Post)
Rustenburg (Bojanala District) (X1 Post)
Moretele (Bojanala Districts) (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : A bachelor’s degree in social work. Registration with the South African Council
for Social Service Professions as Social Worker and proof of registration of
annual fees for current cycle. A minimum of 7 years appropriate experience in
Social Work after registration as Social Worker with the SACSSP. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : To ensure that a social work service with regards to the care, support,
protection and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and
communities through the relevant programmes is rendered. Attend to any other
matters that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form.
Supervise employees engaged in these functions. Supervise and advise social
workers, social auxiliary workers and volunteers to ensure an effective social
work service. Keep up to date with new developments in the social work field.
Supervise all the administrative functions required in the unit and undertake
the higher-level administrative functions.
ENQUIRES : Ms B Sytyi Tel No: (018) 388 2916/2924
Enquiries: Dr M Motshedi at 060 954 9878
APPLICATIONS : E- Mail: SDRecruitmentNMM@nwpg.gov.za
E-mail: SDRecruitmentBOJ@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/233 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE REF
NO: SD/1/11/26/E
Chief Directorate: Financial Management and Administration
Directorate: Internal Control
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. National Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 6/7) in Commence
(Major with Auditing and Accounting) / Internal Auditing. Three 3-5 years’
relevant experience, of which 3 years must be at supervisory level. Valid driver’
licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of Risk Management, Internal Control
strategies /frameworks/ policies. Knowledge of the SCM Framework and
Financial systems. Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, PPPFA, Treasury
Regulations, Modified Cash Standard (MCS) & Accounting Manual for
Departments (AMD), Auditing and Financial reporting. Skills: Numerical skills,
Problem solving skills, Planning and organising skills, Communication (verbal
and written) skills, Computer literacy. Interpersonal Attributes: Ability to work in
a team, Ability to work under pressure and to cope with a high workload.
DUTIES : Supervise and participate in the development of strategic internal audit plans.
Coordinate and maintain the efficient and effective controls and achieving the
objectives of the department. Engage in continuous professional development
activities relevant as required or prescribed by new developments in the
internal audit environment. Attend to all audit queries in respect of the Financial
Statements. Ensure that there is proper audit trail and working papers (Audit
file) in respect of the Financial Statements. Assist in providing financial inputs
into the Annual Report. Management of irregular, fruitless and wasteful
expenditure. Conduct monitoring and capacity building on NPO funded
projects Identify any discrepancies on the general ledger reconciliations and
propose corrective actions. Manage staff and resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Isake Tel No: (018) 388 1641/2480
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail address: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/234 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REF NO:
SD/1/12/26/E
Chief Directorate: Districts and Institutional Support Management
Directorate: Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati District Office
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. National Diploma or bachelor’s degree (NQF 6/7) in Human
Resource Management / Human Resource Management and Industrial
Psychology. A minimum of 3-5 years’ experience in human resource
management, of which 3 years must be at supervisory level. A valid driver’s
license. Computer literacy, presentation skills, planning and organising, and
communication skills. Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts as
184
well as understanding of legislative framework governing the public service,
e.g. PFMA, Public Service Act and Regulations, and Labour Relations Act, etc.
Be able to interpret Policies, Knowledge of PERSAL system. Competencies:
an understanding of administrative polices, including the PFMA, Treasury
Regulations and PSA, Credible knowledge of Human Resource Practices and
Administration, Human Resource Capacity building and Utilisation, Human
Resource Planning, Employee Health and Wellness, as well as People
Management and Labour Relations, Programme and Project management
skills. Operational planning capabilities, facilitation, communication and
leadership skills. Empowerment skills, service delivery improvement skills and
report writing skills.
DUTIES : Ensure implementation of Human Resource Management directives, policies,
strategies, and plans. Coordinate implementation of employee Performance
Management Development System, Training and Development. Oversee
implementation of conditions of service, recruitment and selection, labour
relations, and employee wellness programmes in the district. Manage Human,
Financial, and other resources. Perform any other duties as directed.
ENQUIRES : Mr M Madienyane Tel No: (053) 928 0111- Dr RSM District
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentRSM@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/235 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EPMDS REF NO: SD/1/13/26/E
Chief Directorate: Corporate Services
Directorate: Human Capital Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. National Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 6/7) in Human
Resource Management / Human Resource Management and Industrial
Psychology. A minimum of 3-5 years’ experience in human resource
management, of which 3 years must be at supervisory level. A valid driver’s
license. Computer literacy, presentation skills, planning and organising, and
communication skills. Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts as
well as understanding of legislative framework governing the public service e.g.
PFMA, Public Service Act and Regulations, and Labour Relations Act etc. Be
able to interpret Policies, Knowledge of PERSAL system. Competencies: an
understanding of administrative polices, including the PFMA, Treasury
Regulations and PSA, Credible knowledge of Human Resource Practices and
Administration, Human Resource Capacity building and Utilisation, Human
Resource Planning, Employee Health and Wellness, as well as People
Management and Labour Relations, Programme and Project management
skills. Operational planning capabilities, facilitation, communication and
leadership skills. Empowerment skills, service delivery improvement skills and
report writing skills.
DUTIES : Ensure implementation of Human Resource Management directives, policies,
strategies, and plans. Coordinate implementation of employee Performance
Management Development System, Training and Development. Facilitate
submission of Performance Agreements, Work Plans, Mid-Year, Final
Assessment and Probation. Monitor compliance of EPMDS, Support and
advice training unit. Manage the of PMDS Policy. Supervise Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Mathe Tel No: (018) 388 5684
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/236 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR POPULATION POLICY PROMOTION REF NO:
SD/1/14/26/E
Chief Directorate: Community Development
Directorate: Population Development
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Bachelor’s degree (NQF 7) in Population Studies/ or Social Science
or Statistics. 3 - 5 years’ experience within the field, of which 3 years must be
at supervisory level. Sound knowledge of demographic research.
Competencies: Extensive knowledge of relevant Public Service policies and
legislation. Report-writing and presentation skills. Computer literacy (Excel,
PowerPoint). Good interpersonal and communication skills Willingness to
travel. The ability to work under pressure. A valid driver’s license.
185
DUTIES : Develop, implement, monitor and evaluate population policy, strategies and
programmes. Conduct demographic research in consultation with relevant
stakeholders. Develop and design capacity-building programmes for the
Directorate and government departments to implement the population policy.
Facilitate the integration of population factors into the planning processes.
Provide advocacy and information, education and communication activities to
support population and development programme.
ENQUIRIES : Dr KV Rampagane Tel No: (018) 388 5092
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/237 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REF NO:
SD/1/15/26/E
Chief Directorate: Districts and Institutional Support Management
Directorate: Bojanala District
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : District Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma / B.Tech / Bachelor’s degree (NQF 6/7) in Information
Management / Information Science / Information Technology with statistical
background. Knowledge of and experience in the utilisation of statistical
software packages. At least 3 - 5 years’ experience in an information
management environment, of which 3 years must have been at supervisory
level. Competencies: Extensive knowledge of relevant Public Service policies
and legislation. Report-writing and presentation skills. Computer literacy
(Excel, PowerPoint). Good interpersonal and communication skills Willingness
to travel. The ability to work under pressure. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Develop and implement the district’s Information Management Operational
Plan. Monitor and evaluate district performance information against set targets.
Capture, analyse and collate data and information from service points and
programmes. Produce district quarterly and annual reports. Coordinate and
facilitate training pertaining to information management. Provide support to the
service point and institution data capturers. Conduct quarterly quality data
audits in the public service point. Ensure smooth implementation of the Social
Development Information Management System and NISIS, and Performance
Information Management System. Manage the information management
budget, as well as human and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Motshedi at 060 954 9878
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentBOJ@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/238 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY DEVELOPER SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION
TREATMENT AND REHABILITATION REF NO: SD/1/16/26/E
Directorate: Substance Abuse Prevention Treatment and Rehabilitation
SALARY : R471 330 per annum, (salary will be in accordance with OSD determination)
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in social work. A minimum of eight years appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a social worker with SACSSP.
Knowledge in the field of Disability. Knowledge OF Social Development
System, Public Financial Management Act, relevant financial management
policies and practices and other relevant policies and legislation. Valid driver’s
license. Competencies: Extensive knowledge of relevant Public Service
policies and legislation. Report-writing and presentation skills. Computer
literacy (Excel, PowerPoint). Good interpersonal and communication skills
Willingness to travel. The ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Assist in the development of responsive programmes and policies to Persons
with Disabilities. Facilitate programme implementation. Facilitate funding of
organisations and centres. Monitor compliance to legislative prescripts and
norms and standards. Facilitate transformation of services to persons with
disabilities. Facilitate integration of services to Persons with Disabilities.
Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Didimalang Tel No: (018) 3881651
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
186
POST 27/239 : SENIOR OD PRACTITIONER: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF
NO: SD/1/18/26/E
Chief Directorate: Corporate Services
Directorate: Human Capital Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. A Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 6/7) as recognised
by SAQA in Management Services / Production Management / Operations
management / Human Resource Management and Industrial Psychology. 2 –
3 years of experience within Organisational Development field. A valid driver’s
license. Job Evaluation Analysis Certificate will be an added advantage
Knowledge: Supervisory, Service delivery innovation, Problem Solving and
Analysis. Job Evaluation, Work Study investigations, Client Orientation and
Customer Focus, Communication, People Management and Empowerment,
Change Management, Programme and Project Management. knowledge and
understanding of corporate services management in public service, Batho Pele
Principles. Competencies: Programme and project management skills, change
management, problem-solving and conflict management skills. Presentation
Skill, People management and empowerment skills. Client orientation,
customer focus and communication skills. Honesty and integrity, knowledge
management, networking, presentation skills and computer skills. Excellent in-
depth knowledge and insight into all applicable policy frameworks governing
the public sector, conflict resolution, creative skills, negation skill, teamwork.
DUTIES : Conduct Job Evaluation process and present the job to JE Quality Assurance
and Moderation Committees. Assist with the development of Job Descriptions
and ensure submission. Participate and assist with development of the
Organizational Structure. Assist with the development of Standard Operating
Procedures. Conduct workshops on Job Evaluation, Job Description, Standard
Operating Procedures. Conduct business process mapping for various
components.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. I Mokoena Tel No: (018) 388 2257/4977
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/240 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE REF NO:
SD/1/19/26/E
Chief Directorate: Corporate Services
Directorate: Human Capital Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Diploma or Degree (NQF 6/7) in Human Resource Management /
Industrial Psychology / Public Administration. A minimum of 2-3 years’
experience in the relevant field of which 1 years must be at supervisory.
Experience in and in- depth knowledge of the PERSAL system. A valid driver’s
license. Knowledge: Supervisory, Service delivery innovation, Problem Solving
and Analysis. PERSAL, Client Orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication, People Management and Empowerment, Change
Management, Programme and Project Management. Understanding of
corporate services management in public service, Batho Pele Principles.
Competencies: Programme and project management skills, change
management, problem-solving and conflict management skills. Presentation
Skill, People management and empowerment skills. Client orientation,
customer focus and communication skills. Honesty and integrity, knowledge
management, networking, presentation skills and computer skills. Excellent in-
depth knowledge and insight into all applicable policy frameworks governing
the public sector, conflict resolution, creative skills, negation skill, teamwork.
DUTIES : Ensure effective implementation of policies and procedure manuals relevant to
conditions of service and Service Benefits. Render support conditions of
services and conduct training on the latest developments regarding service
benefits and policies. Manage leave of absence and termination of services.
Management of overtime compensatory practices. Ensure data integrity on
information management systems (PERSAL) Management of PILIR. Ensure
effective implementation of COIDA. Administer and ensure timeous payment
of allowance and service benefits to eligible officials. Pension Administration
remuneration and compensatory practices. Supervise the activities of the
subordinates.
187
ENQUIRIES : MS PP Setsiba Tel No: (018) 388 2020
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/241 : SENIOR PROVISIONING ADMIN OFFICER: LOGISTICS REF NO:
SD/1/20/26/E
Chief Directorate: Financial Administration and Management
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Diploma or Degree (NQF 6/7) in Logistics Management / Financial
Management / Supply Chain Management. A minimum of 2-3 years’
experience in the relevant field of which 1 years must be at supervisory. A valid
driver’s license. Knowledge: Supervisory, Service delivery innovation, Problem
Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication,
People Management and Empowerment, Change Management, Programme
and Project Management. Understanding of corporate services management
in public service, Batho Pele Principles. Supply Chain Management processes.
Logistics. Competencies: Programme and project management skills, change
management, problem-solving and conflict management skills. Presentation
Skill, People management and empowerment skills. Client orientation,
customer focus and communication skills. Honesty and integrity, knowledge
management, networking, presentation skills and computer skills. Excellent in-
depth knowledge and insight into all applicable policy frameworks governing
the public sector, conflict resolution, creative skills, negation skill, teamwork.
DUTIES : Render authorisation of purchase orders. Check the correctness of ACK
allocated. Print purchase orders. Compile statistics of approved, changed and
closed orders, Compilation of monthly reports. Participate during stocktaking
of the institutions for inventory. Supervise Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. B Kadi Tel No: (018) 388 1999
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/242 : CHIEF WORKS INSPECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: SD/1/21/26/E
Chief Directorate: Corporate Services
Directorate: Infrastructure Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. A Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 6/7) as recognised
by SAQA in any of the following built environment disciplines (Architecture,
Quantity Surveying, Civil /Structural Engineering or Electrical / Mechanical
Engineering). 2 – 3 years relevant experience. A valid driver’s license.
Knowledge: Supervisory, Service delivery innovation, Problem Solving and
Analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication, People
Management and Empowerment, Change Management, Programme and
Project Management. Records Management, knowledge and understanding of
corporate services management in public service, Batho Pele Principles.
Competencies: Programme and project management skills, change
management, problem-solving and conflict management skills. Presentation
Skill, People management and empowerment skills. Client orientation,
customer focus and communication skills. Honesty and integrity, knowledge
management, networking, presentation skills and computer skills. Excellent in-
depth knowledge and insight into all applicable policy frameworks governing
the public sector, conflict resolution, creative skills, negotiation skill, teamwork.
DUTIES : Identify needs and requirements of new work and repairs through the
investigation of customer complaints and new services. Render an inspection
service of work done on new projects (both maintenance and capital projects)
and existing structures. Compile relevant project documentation for new and
existing structures. Manage the activities of contractors on project sites. Gather
and submit information in terms of the extended public works programme, the
Framework for Infrastructure Delivery and Procurement Management
(FIDPM). Manage the departmental leased office accommodation portfolio and
ensure, that leased buildings are OHS compliant through monitoring systems
agreed with landlords. Supervise the performance and conduct of
subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O Kgobokoe Tel No: (018) 388 2416/2470
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
188
POST 27/243 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: TRANSPORT REF NO: SD/1/22/26/E
Chief Directorate: Corporate Services
Directorate: Support Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Three years Degree or National Diploma in Transport Economics, Logistics
Management or Public Administration. 3 – 5 years relevant experience in
Government Fleet Management within the Public Service of which 1 year must
be at a supervisory level. Good communication and interpersonal relations.
Good knowledge of Transport Legislation, Policies, and procedures. Computer
literacy. A valid driver’s license. Advanced driving will be an added advantage.
Knowledge: Supervisory, Service delivery innovation, Problem Solving and
Analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication, People
Management and Empowerment, Change Management, Programme and
Project Management. Records Management, knowledge and understanding of
corporate services management in public service, Batho Pele Principles.
Competencies: Programme and project management skills, change
management, problem-solving and conflict management skills. Presentation
Skill, People management and empowerment skills. Client orientation,
customer focus and communication skills. Honesty and integrity, knowledge
management, networking, presentation skills and computer skills. Excellent in-
depth knowledge and insight into all applicable policy frameworks governing
the public sector, conflict resolution, creative skills, negation skill, teamwork.
DUTIES : Management of government fleet in line with Policy Provisions. Analysis and
ensure timely submission of monthly VMS reports. Provision of reports
(accident, renewal of disks, losses, service). Implement asset management
procedures and ensure compliance. Conduct routine inspections to ensure
compliance. Ensure compliance to Transport policies, procedures, prescripts
and applicable legislation. Implement control measures to identify and prevent
irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Management of personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ASS Moche at 060 955 0001
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/244 : CHIEF NETWORK CONTROLLER REF NO: SD/1/23/26/E (X1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Corporate Services
Directorate: Support Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. National Diploma/bachelor’s degree (NQF 6/7) in
Information Technology/Information Technology Management/Computer
Engineering/Computer Science as recognised by SAQA with 2-3 years’
experience in the field. A valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Knowledge of
government policies and prescripts, public service regularity framework.
Knowledge of IT service management (ITSM) and performance monitoring
tools. Knowledge of Microsoft Azure cloud services, networking, and security.
Server and network administration (Windows Server, Active Directory, DNS,
DHCP). (Competencies) Service delivery innovation. Problem Solving and
Analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus, communication skills,
Teamwork. Knowledge and understanding of corporate services management
in public service, Batho Pele Principles. Honesty and integrity, knowledge
management, Computer networking network infrastructure support. Procedure
and processes for computer setup, configurations and upgrade. Hardware and
software peripherals.
DUTIES : Facilitate the installation and maintenance of all ICT communication systems,
networks and cloud infrastructure. Configure network devices. LAN and WAN
support. Monitor the desktop support and trainings. Monitor network
performance. (Install and test Microsoft packages). (Perform user
administration in departmental systems). Maintain uptime of LAN AND WAN
link. Facilitate and maintain ICT Infrastructure, Implement ICT Security policies
and ICT continuity plans. Store and backup all Departmental data. Maintain the
availability of user data. Configure ICT as per standards. (Maintain ICT service
and assets register). (Maintain IT security and cybersecurity infrastructure.
Implement IT security policies on the safekeeping and storage of data).
(Conduct IT security reviews and IT Risk assessments). (Facilitate and
189
maintain ICT services and ICT assets) Maintain ICT service charter. Maintain
user access rights and user access reviews. manage the allocated resources
of the sub-directorate. Facilitate coaching, mentorship, training and
development of employees.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Tuabeng at 060 954 6857
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/245 : LEGAL ADMIN OFFICER MR-4: REF NO: SD/1/10/26/E
Chief Directorate: Corporate Services.
SALARY : R403 929 – R461 838 per annum, (salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination)
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB degree. 5 years’ postgraduate legal experience .Sound knowledge of
the law .An understanding of Batho Pele principles .Knowledge of the Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations and PFMA .Knowledge of and
experience in Public Service legislation .Computer literacy .Excellent
communication skills (both verbal and written) .Accuracy and attention to detail
.Problem-solving, report-writing and time management skills .The ability to
make presentations .Good interpersonal and inter-cultural relations .The ability
to liaise with senior officials .The ability to draft contracts or any other legal
instruments. A valid driver’s licence. Competencies: Ability to maintain
confidentiality. Good communication skills. Good time keeping. Ability to work
as a team. Problem solving skills. Planning and organizing skills. Knowledge
of relevant legislations, policies and procedures in Child and youth Care.
Interpersonal and Leadership skills. Able to do shift work.
DUTIES : Provide legal opinion in respect of the mandate of the Department. Coordinate
the implementation of new legislation with provincial stakeholders. Draft legal
documentation and reports for and give advice to Senior Management on a
variety of legal matters. Respond to petitions, representations and complaints
from civil society and other Government departments.
ENQUIRES : Adv TJ Ntuane Tel No: (018) 388 2010/4014
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/246 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT POLICY DEVELOPER GRADE 1 REF NO:
SD/1/17/26/E (X2 POSTS)
Poverty Eradication and Sustainable Livelihoods
Women Development
Chief Directorate: Community Development
SALARY : R403 635 per annum, (salary will be in accordance with OSD determination)
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) Qualification in Developmental Studies,
Community Development or Social Sciences. A minimum of 8 years
recognizable experience in Community Development after obtaining the
required qualification. A valid driver’s license. Competencies Knowledge of
relevant legislation frameworks and policies in the Public Service. Knowledge
and understanding of financial and project management. Good management
skills, organizing, planning, communication and presentation skills. Organizing,
planning, communication and presentations skills. Experience in coordination
and integration services.
DUTIES : Review, develop, interpret, apply, provide guidance, analyse impact of
community development policies. Liaise and interact with various Community
Development Policies. Liaise and interact with various community
development structures to facilitate collaboration and establish partnerships to
ensure sustainability of development actions within the community. Conduct
research relating to community development work. Managing Community
Development projects. Coordinate the identification, facilitation and
implementation of integrated development interventions in partnership with
other relevant stakeholders through the efficient, effective and economical
utilization of resources by the service delivery areas. Coordinates and manage
community development service delivery areas to ensure that an efficient and
effective community development service is delivered through the proper
utilization of human, financial and physical resources. Keep up to date with new
developments in the community development and management fields to
enhance service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Gaegane Tel No: (018) 3882989/ 5092
190
Enquiries: Ms B Madimabe Tel No: (018) 3882989/ 5092
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/247 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 REF NO: SD/1/24/26/E (X9 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Districts and Institutional Support Management
Directorate: Districts and Service Points
SALARY : R338 208 per annum, (salary will be in accordance with OSD determination)
CENTRE : JB Marks (Dr KK) (X2 Posts)
Matlosana (Dr KK) (X1 Post)
Lekwa Teemane (Dr RSM) (X2 Posts)
Moses Kotane Service Point (Bojanala) (X1 Post)
Moretele (Bojanala) (X1 Post)
Tswaing (NMM) (X1 Post)
Ditsobotla (NMM) (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Bachelor of Social Work that allows professional registration with
the South African Council for Social Services Profession (SACSSP) as a Social
Worker. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s license. The following knowledge
and skills are required for appointment: Understanding social dynamics, human
behaviour and social systems. Social Intervention and empowerment. Social
support. Protecting vulnerable individuals. Understanding Social Work
legislation. Communication (written and verbal). Teamwork and collaboration.
Planning and organising. Diversity Management. Understanding social work
values and principles. Competencies: Knowledge of human behaviour and
social systems. Understanding community dynamics. Networking and
establishing partnerships. Understanding community development
programmes. Community Development research. Understanding community
development legislation. Planning and organising; Networking skills;
Communication (written and verbal); Project Management; Team leadership.
People management. Conflict management. Project management. Financial
Management. Keeping abreast with new developments in the community
development fields to enhance service delivery. Knowledge of policies and
legislative mandates related to Community Development.
DUTIES : Provide social work services through the promotion of social change, problem
solving in human relationships and the empowerment and liberation of people
to enhance social well-being. To provide social work services towards
protecting people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect themselves.
Conduct assessment aimed at identifying conditions in individuals, groups,
families and communities that justify relevant Interventions. Identify and make
recommendations on the appropriate interventions required to address the
identified conditions. Implement the recommended interventions by providing
continuous support, counselling guidance and advice to the affected
individuals, groups and families and communities. Monitor and evaluate the
effectiveness of the recommended interventions, report on progress and
identify further amended interventions to address the identified conditions.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Motshedi at 060 954 9878
Ms A Nel at 066 095 1508
Ms B Sytyi Tel No: (018) 388 2916/2924
Mr M Madienyane Tel No: (053) 928 0111
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentBOJ@nwpg.gov.za
E-mail: SDRecruitmentKK@nwpg.gov.za
E- Mail: SDRecruitmentNMM@nwpg.gov.za
E-mail: SDRecruitmentRSM@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/248 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: SD/1/25/26/E (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: HOD Support, CFO, Corporate Services and Social Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Diploma (NQF 6) in Management Assistant. 3 to 5 years’ experience
in rendering a support service to senior manager. Valid Driver’s License.
Competencies: Organizing, time management, communication, and report
writing skills. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/ receptionist support services to the chief director. Render
administration support services. Manage the Chief Director's travel
arrangements and handle all correspondence. Provide support to the manager
during meetings. Support the Chief Directorate’s office budget. Study the
191
relevant public service departmental prescripts- policies and other documents
and ensure that an application thereof is applied properly.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Nyoka Tel No: (018) 3882043/1688
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/249 : GENERAL ADMIN CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO: SD/1/26/26/E
Directorate: Restorative Services
Sub-Programme: Substance Abuse, Prevention and Rehabilitation
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. A Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 6/7) as recognised
by SAQA in Public Administration / Public Management / Administration. 2 -3
years relevant experience in administration, of which 1 year must be at
supervisory level. Advance Computer Literacy will be an added advantage.
Valid driver’s Licence as it will be required to travel. Competencies: Willingness
to work extended hours. Supervisory, analytical, good financial management
skills computer literacy (Microsoft Office Package, Communication Verbal and
Written at all levels, good interpersonal skills, Planning and organising skills,
ability to work independently but also part of a team, ability to work under
pressure, ability to gather and analyse information. Flexibility and reliability.
Conflict management.
DUTIES : Render general admin support services. Provide Supply Chain support
services within the component. Provide financial administration support
services within the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Didimalang Tel No: (018) 3881651
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/250 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK SUPERVISOR REF NO:
SD/1/27/26/E
Directorate: Dr Kenneth Kauda District Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Dr Kenneth Kaunda District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 6/7) in Supply Chain
Management / Logistics Management / Financial Management. 2 – 3 years
relevant experience, of which 1 year must be at supervisory level. Knowledge:
Client Orientation Customer Focus, Communication, Planning, Organising
Competencies: Honesty and integrity, flexibility, computer skills. Good verbal
and written communication skills, teamwork.
DUTIES : Render demand and acquisition clerical support. Update and maintain a
supplier (including contractors) database. Register suppliers on Logis or similar
system. Request and receive quotations. Capture specification on the
electronic purchasing system. Place orders. Issue and receive bid documents.
Provide secretariat or logistical support during the bid consideration and
contracts conclusion process. Compile draft documents as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Nel at 066 095 1508
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: SDRecruitmentKK@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/251 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 – GRADE 3 REF NO: SD/1/28/26/E (X5
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Districts and Institutional Support Management
Directorate: Bojanala and Dr Kenneth Kaunda Districts
SALARY : R337 359 per annum, (salary will be in accordance with OSD determination)
CENTRE : Sonop Old Age Home (Bojanala) (X2 Posts)
JB Marks Treatment Centre (DR Kenneth Kaunda) (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Basic qualification (i.e. Diploma or Degree in Nursing) or recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Applicant must be registered with South Africa Nursing Council. Be Able to
demonstrate understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practice. Able to implement elementary functions according to the
scope of practice. Be able to plan and organise own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Knowledge and understanding of
public service regulatory frameworks. A valid driver’s licence and computer
literacy.
192
DUTIES : Provision of holistic/comprehensive specialised nursing care. Manage the
utilisation of resources effectively. Provision of educational services. Provision
of effective support to nursing. Work as part of a multidisciplinary team to
ensure quality nursing care. Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance
with the scope of practice and nursing standards as determined by the relevant
health facility. Provide emergency care and act as shift leader in unit and be
available to work overtime and to be on standby. Ensure the implementation
of, and adherence to Patients’ Rights Charter and Batho Pele principles.
Manage and administer medication. Coordinate admissions and discharge
planning. Ensure proper record-keeping. Ensure quality services delivery.
Work effectively, cooperatively and amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious groups.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AB Nhlapo at 066 072 6993
Enquiries: Ms DC Monyemore at 066 077 3190
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentBOJ@nwpg.gov.za
E-mail: SDRecruitmentKK@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/252 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 REF NO:
SD/1/29/26/E (X9 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Districts and Institutional Support Management
Directorate: Districts and Service Points
SALARY : R289 296 per annum, (salary will be in accordance with OSD determination)
CENTRE : Kagisano Molopo (DR RSM) (X2 Posts)
Mamusa (Dr RSM) (X1 Post)
Kgetleng (Bojanala) (X1 Post)
Madibeng (Bojanala) (X1 Post)
Moretele (Bojanala) (X1 Post)
Tswaing Service Point (NMM) (X2 Posts)
Ratlou Service Point (NMM) (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. A 3-year relevant qualification in Community Development /
Development Studies or Social Science. Computer literacy. A valid driver’s
license. Competencies: Knowledge of human behaviour and social systems.
Understanding community dynamics. Networking and establishing
partnerships. Understanding community development programmes.
Community Development research. Understanding community development
legislation. Planning and organising; Networking skills; Communication (written
and verbal); Project Management; Team leadership. People management.
Conflict management. Project management. Financial Management. Keeping
abreast with new developments in the community development fields to
enhance service delivery. Knowledge of policies and legislative mandates
related to Community Development.
DUTIES : Implementation of legislation and policies to assist with interventions in wards
where people interact with environments to promote self-empowerment. Liaise
and interact with various community development structures to facilitate
collaboration and to establish partnership to ensure sustainability of
development actions within the community. Keep up to date with new
developments in the Community Development field to enhance service
delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Motshedi at 060 954 9878
Ms B Sytyi Tel No: (018) 388 2916/2924
Mr M Madienyane Tel No: (053) 928 0111
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentBOJ@nwpg.gov.za
E- Mail: SDRecruitmentNMM@nwpg.gov.za
E-mail: SDRecruitmentRSM@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/253 : COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER REF NO: SD/1/31/26/E
Chief Directorate: Corporate Services
Directorate: Media and Communication
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Diploma (NQF 6) in Communication / Marketing / Journalism /Public
Relations / Media Studies. At least 1 – 2 years’ experience in a corporate
communication environment in the public service. Computer literacy,
Photographic skills. A valid driver’s license. Competencies: Honesty and
193
integrity, flexibility, computer skills. Good verbal and written communication
skills, teamwork.
DUTIES : Responsible for development of internal releases to update staff about internal
developments i.e. news, transformation issues, conditions of service matters,
etc. Distribution of internal circulars and memos through electronic and print
channels. Regularly updating of notice boards and monitoring proper
placement of notices. Develop creative communication initiatives to the interest
all stakeholders including staff members on departmental matters. Assist with
the production of internal departmental publications (e.g., newsletters,
calendars, diaries, programmes, posters, print advertisement, etc).
Responsible for internal corporate identity brand campaign and awareness.
Monitor and report adherence to the department’s corporate identity manual.
Assist with branding and exhibitions. Coordinate and take part in all internal
and external events. Update the website on a regular basis.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Moche Tel No: (018) 388 1388
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/254 : CHILD AND YOUTH CARE SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 REF NO: SD/1/30/26/E
(X6 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: District and Institutional Support Management
SALARY : R265 755 per annum, (OSD package), (an all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : JB Marks Treatment Center (X1 Post)
Reamogetswe Child And Youth Care Center (X3 Posts)
Khuseleka One Stop Center (X1 Post)
Taung Old Age Home (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and certificate in Child and Youth Care. Current proof of registration
with South African Council for Social Services Professionals (SACSSP) (proof
of registration submitted when shortlisted) Experience in CYCC will be added
advantage. Current registration with the SACSSP council as Child and Youth
Care worker. Competencies: Ability to maintain confidentiality. Good
communication skills. Good time keeping. Ability to work as a team. Problem
solving skills. Planning and organising skills. Knowledge of relevant
legislations, policies and procedures in Child and youth Care. Interpersonal
and Leadership skills. Able to do shift work.
DUTIES : (JB Marks Treatment Centre service users, Reamogetswe: children,
Khuseleka: survivors/victims Taung Old Age Home: Older Persons).
Supervision of Care and Development: Ensures that children and youth in care
facilities receive appropriate developmental, therapeutic, and life-space
interventions to enhance their well-being and growth. Including monitoring of
daily routines, developmental programs, and therapeutic activities. Ensure
adequate supervision. Work within a multidisciplinary team to ensure the
formulation and implementation of individual developmental plans Life-Space
Supervision: Guide CYC workers, providing immediate feedback and support
in real-time situations. Assess CYC workers performance, intervene when
necessary, and model effective interactions with children and youth. Staff
Mentoring and Coaching: Mentoring and coaching CYC workers, transmitting
knowledge, skills, and professional attitudes. Provide guidance on handling
complex situations, encourage reflective practice, and support professional
development through performance appraisals and continuing professional
development. Program Implementation and Administration: Oversee the
planning and execution of programs tailored to the developmental needs of
children and youth. Manage administrative tasks such as shift registers,
incident reports, logbooks, and compliance with policies and procedures.
Coordinate escorts and liaise with the Multidisciplinary Team. Ensuring
Compliance and Advocacy: Ensure adherence to legislative and policy
frameworks governing child and youth care centres. Promote children’s rights,
maintain quality control of services, and advocate for the needs of children and
youth.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Motshedi at 060 954 9878
Ms A Nel at 066 095 1508
Mr M Madienyane Tel No: (053) 928 0111
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentBOJ@nwpg.gov.za
E-mail: SDRecruitmentKK@nwpg.gov.za
E-mail: SDRecruitmentRSM@nwpg.gov.za
194
POST 27/255 : HCM PRODUCTION CLERK: APPOINTMENTS REF NO: SD/1/32/26/E
Chief Directorate: Corporate Services
Directorate: Human Capital Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate 0–1-year relevant experience. Practical PERSAL
experience will serve as an advantage. Computer Literacy. A Valid driver’s
license. Competencies: Honesty and integrity, flexibility, computer skills. Good
verbal and written communication skills, teamwork.
DUTIES : Ensuring correct implementation and capturing of appointments, promotions,
translations, secondments, and transfers on the PERSAL System. Assist in the
administration of service termination timeously on PERSAL. Attending Human
Resource related enquiries. Provide Human Resource technical support during
shortlisting’s and interviews.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MJ Molamu Tel No: (018) 3881552/2416
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/256 : SCM CLERK PRODUCTION ACQUSITION MANAGEMENT REF NO:
SD/1/33/26/E (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. 0–1-year relevant experience. Knowledge: Client
Orientation Customer Focus, Communication, Planning, Organising
Competencies: Honesty and integrity, flexibility, computer skills. Good verbal
and written communication skills, teamwork.
DUTIES : Render demand and acquisition clerical support. Update and maintain a
supplier (including contractors) database. Register suppliers on Logis or similar
system. Request and receive quotations. Capture specification on the
electronic purchasing system. Place orders. Issue and receive bid documents.
Provide secretariat or logistical support during the bid consideration and
contracts conclusion process. Compile draft documents as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Peters Tel No: (018) 388 1999
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/257 : GENERAL ADMIN CLERK PRODUCTION – INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO:
SD/1/34/26/E
Chief Directorate: Corporate Services
Sub-Directorate: Infrastructure Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. 0 – 1-year relevant experience. Knowledge: Client
Orientation Customer Focus, Communication, Planning, Organising
Competencies: Honesty and integrity, flexibility, computer skills. Good verbal
and written communication skills, teamwork.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide supply chain clerical support
services within the component. Provide personnel administration clerical
support services within the component. Provide financial administration
support services in the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Kgobokoe Tel No: (018) 388 1625
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/258 : SECRETARY REF NO: SD/1/35/26/E (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: HOD Support, Financial Accounting
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. A qualification in Secretarial / Management Assistant / Office
Management or administration will be an added advantage. Computer Literacy
(Microsoft word, Excel, and PowerPoint). 0 – 1-year relevant experience in
office administration. Competencies: Organising, time management,
communication, and report writing skills. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Providing secretarial / receptionist support services to the director. Recording
and managing correspondence. Render administration support services.
195
Record incoming and outgoing documents and correspondence. Scheduling
meetings and managing the director’s diary. Provide logistical arrangements
for meetings, workshops. Scrutinise submissions and reports to ensure
compliance with basic standards. Manage client’s enquiries/complaints.
Managing incoming and outgoing telephone calls.
ENQUIRIES : MS K Nyoka Tel No: (018) 3882043/1688
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentPO@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/259 : CHILD AND YOUTH CARE TEAM LEADER GRADE 1 REF NO:
SD/1/36/26/E (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: District and Institutional Support Management
SALARY : R211 899 per annum, (salary will be in accordance with OSD determination)
CENTRE : JB Marks Treatment Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12. Certificate/ Diploma (NQF level 4 /5/6). FET (a degree in Child and
Youth Care would be an added advantage). A minimum of 7 years’ experience
in Child and Youth Care work after obtaining the required qualification. Current
proof of registration with South African Council for Social Services
Professionals (SACSSP) (proof of registration submitted when shortlisted). A
valid driver’s license. Experience in Secure Care will be added advantage.
Competencies: Ability to maintain confidentiality. Good communication skills.
Good time keeping. Ability to work as a team. Problem solving skills. Planning
and organizing skills. Knowledge of relevant legislations, policies and
procedures in Child and youth Care. Interpersonal and Leadership skills. Able
to do shift work.
DUTIES : Supervise Child & Youth Care Workers. Manage work performance of
supervisee. Oversee the admission and related activities of children and youth
to the facility. Oversee the access of children/ youth to medical services.
Oversee the implementation of planned activities, residential developmental
and therapeutic programmes. Oversee basic life space work. Undertake
inspections during a shift and report on incidents and challenges identified.
Perform administrative work relevant to the job. Oversee the completion of
daily registers, e.g., logbooks, incident reports, etc. Ensure the attendance
registers are signed and kept up to date. Perform all the administration
functions required by the job. Accompany, assist and escort service users
within healthcare facilities when necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Ms DC Monyemore Tel No: (018) 294 5134
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: SDRecruitmentKK@nwpg.gov.za
POST 27/260 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 – GRADE 3 REF NO: SD/1/37/26/E (X5
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Districts and Institutional Support Management
Directorate: Bojanala and Dr Kenneth Kaunda Districts
SALARY : R181 230 per annum, (salary will be in accordance with OSD determination)
CENTRE : Sonop Old Age Home (Bojanala District) (X3 Posts)
JB Marks Treatment Centre (Dr Kenneth Kaunda District) (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate, qualification that allows registration with South Africa
Nursing Council (SANC) as Nursing Assistant. Applicant must be registered
with SANC. Be able to demonstrate elementary understanding of nursing
legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practice. Able to implement
elementary functions according to the scope of practice.
DUTIES : Perform elementary clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of
practice and nursing standards, as determined by the relevant health facility.
Promote quality of elementary nursing care as directed by the professional
scope of practice and standards, as determined by the relevant health facility.
Conduct communication with patients and supervisors effectively. Work as part
of multidisciplinary team to ensure quality nursing care. Work effectively,
cooperatively and amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial
or religious groups. Passion to work with elderly persons and people with
disability.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AB Nhlapo at 066 072 6993
Enquiries: Ms DC Monyemore Tel No: (018) 294 5134
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentBOJ@nwpg.gov.za
E-mail: SDRecruitmentKK@nwpg.gov.za
196
POST 27/261 : CLEANER REF NO: SD/1/38/26/E (X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Districts and Institutional Support Management
Directorate: Bojanala District
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Sonop Old Age Home
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Grade 10 or adult education and training (NQF Level 2). Knowledge
of cleaning materials and equipment. Ability to operate cleaning equipment as
well as cleaning methods and procedures. Good organising and interpersonal
relationships. Basic literacy (ability to read and write) and basic numeracy
(ability to count). Ability to work as part of the team. Ability to work around
elderly people and have physical strength.
DUTIES : Cleaning Services: Sweeping floor, emptying dustbins, cleaning offices and
workshops (where applicable). Monitor cleaning material and report stock
levels. Utilise cleaning equipment and ensure their safeguarding. Comply to
Occupational Health and Safety requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms AB Nhlapo at 066 072 6993
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: SDRecruitmentBOJ@nwpg.gov.za
NOTE : The North West Department of Social Development is an Equal Opportunity,
Affirmative Action Employer and is committed to the achievement and
maintenance of diversity and equity in employment, especially in respect of
race, gender and disability.
197
ANNEXURE Z
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026, 17:00PM
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 27/262 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (CARDIOLOGY)
(3-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 395 528 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.) (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice) in Medicine. Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge appropriate for approach to investigations of
common cardiovascular disorders. Facilitation of management system.
Effective and efficient administration. Communication including report
generation, letter writing, consultation. Clinical Skills required of a Medical
Specialist Physician (e.g. Assessment, diagnosis and treatment in inpatient,
outpatient, and emergency contexts).
DUTIES : Clinical Governance and Administration. Clinical Service Provision. Research
for fulfilment of the MPhil Degree. Teaching and Training/Supervision of Junior
Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Prof M Ntsekhe Tel No: (021) 404-6085 or email: mpiko.ntsekhe@uct.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure
that you attach an updated CV. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all
registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and
may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes
Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital,
Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial
Hospital. Appointment as Senior Registrar will be for a maximum contract
period of 3 years. Senior Registrars will function across health facilities, as per
an agreed programme. Consideration will be given to existing employees who
are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position,
as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment
as Senior Registrar will be on contract. Employees in service who opt to
continue with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar, will be required to
resign after completion of their registrarship should they not be successful for
advertised Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The Department of Health is
guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are
encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be appreciated.
Specific Senior Registrar posts within the Department will be identified as part
of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative Specialist cadre
in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to SA
citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Senior Registrars
will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch University/
University of Cape Town according to the yearbook and guidelines. Candidates
198
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)
POST 27/263 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (UROLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.) (It will be expected of the successful candidate to participate
in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Urology. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Urology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Urology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Urology.
Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience after registration with
the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Urology. Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to perform urologic surgery at a tertiary level. Have
research experience. Experience in Adult and Paediatric Urology, renal
transplantation, laparoscopic surgery, trauma, endourological and oncological
surgery.
DUTIES : Contribute to the under and post grad training and research agenda of the
Division. Organise and contribute to the surgical skills training courses.
Oversee day surgery, surgical clinics and surgical emergencies. Supervision
and performance of major Urology surgery, Laparoscopic surgery, laparoscopic
surgery, trauma, endourological and oncological surgery. The management of
specialist urological patients within the Division of Urology and at related
hospitals to Groote Schuur Hospital. To provide services (operative and OPD
consulting) at Eerste River and Western Cape Rehabilitation Hospitals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P George Tel No: (021) 404-6105 or email: paige.george@uct.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Please ensure that you attach an
updated CV. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem
framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all Medical Specialists
appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and may include
rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War
Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District
Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial Hospital.
POST 27/264 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHETICS)
(12 Month Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
199
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful candidate to participate
in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 3: A minimum of
10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology.
Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): The position may allow for exposure to a
structured fellowship in Paediatric Anaesthesia. Research experience.
Willingness to participate in the CMSA exams. MMed in Anaesthesia. Strong
educational or teaching experience background in both the under and post-
graduate domains. Strong moral and ethical record in anaesthetic practice.
Insight into challenges in Health Care in South Africa and Africa, and diversity,
transformation and equity. Ability to function well in a team environment and a
team player, with good inter-personal skills. Computer literacy, good
communication, analytic and problem-solving skills. Comprehensive skills and
experience in leadership, administration and management related to
anaesthesia and peri-operative medicine. Proven record of effective leadership
and organisational ability in clinical Anaesthesia and Perioperative Medicine.
DUTIES : The management of specialist anaesthetic patients within the Department and
at related hospitals to Groote Schuur, Red Cross War Memorial Children's,
New Somerset and Mowbray Maternity Hospitals. Provide comprehensive
clinical services. Provide academic leadership in the areas of under- and
postgraduate teaching, training and research. Organise and contribute to the
anaesthetic skills training courses. Manage and provide leadership to
Registrars and contribute significantly to the administrative duties of the
combined department including, assessments and performance management.
Contribute to the administration and management of the department and
provide outreach and support to referring institutions. Build and maintain
departmental team spirit and development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Wyngaard Tel No: (021) 404-5004
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure
that you attach an updated CV. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
POST 27/265 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
200
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid South African
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to participate in after hour duties –
including weekends and public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Appropriate current experience and skills in obstetrics care. Ability to work in a
team and with all levels of staff. Ability to do a Caesarean section safely and
without supervision. Computer literacy in MS Office mandatory. Appropriate
current experience to perform a caesarean section safely and without
supervision; with proof of a minimum of 50 caesarean sections done
independently. Appropriate current experience in managing emergency
gynaecological procedures.
DUTIES : (Clinical triage and management of all non-acute and emergency O&G
presentation to the Labour Suite at Mowbray Maternity Hospital. Managing
critically ill patients including resuscitation. Supervision and teaching of
students, interns and midwives. Provide an efficient administration service
regarding all clinical and non-clinical matters and medico-legal work. Provide
guidance and leadership towards the realization of strategic goals and
objectives of the department. Ensure a cost -efficient service at clinical level
with regards to laboratory services, blood, medicine, consumables and
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Allie Tel No: (021) 659-5579 or email: Saadiqa.allie@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to submit a logbook outlining their surgical experience in Obstetrics
and Gynaecology. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 27/266 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified employees.
One (1) year’s relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner
with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service
as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of Five (5) appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of six (6)
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified employees,
201
of whom required to perform community service required in South Africa.
Grade 3: A minimum of Ten (10) year’s appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of eleven (11) year’s relevant
experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willing and able to work shifts. Willing and
able to work with patients with infectious diseases Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license and willingness and ability to travel. Available and willing to participate
in after-hours duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience
in Psychiatry. Excellent clinical consultation, management and procedural
skills. Computer literacy. Good professional attitude. Excellent communication
skills. Ability to work well both in a team or as an individual.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive medical and psychiatric care to patients by diagnosing
and treating illnesses, injuries, and other health conditions. Formulate and
manage treatment plans, including medication and therapies. Maintain
accurate and detailed patient records both electronically and paper based.
Refer patients to specialists or other healthcare providers when necessary.
Complete the required CPD activities to maintain registration with the HPCSA.
Complete and submit required medical reports and documentation for legal and
administrative purposes. Uphold the reputation and integrity of the medical
profession.
ENQUIRIES : Prof L Koen Tel No: (021) 940-8718 or email:
Liezle.Koen@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
POST 27/267 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (MEDICAL OUTPATIENTS AND CHILD
PROTECTION)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, who are not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Applicants must have a valid APLS/ PALS
certificate. Willingness to travel within the District and Metro Region.
202
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to comprehensively manage all
paediatric cases including child protection cases and management of tertiary
level patients. Proven leadership abilities. Experience in supervision of staff
and students. Experience and effective management of allocated resources.
Proven experience in teamwork. Proven knowledge/skills and experience in
principles of service planning, organising, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation. Proven ability to adhere to all departmental requirements and
protocols. Proven knowledge of public health and public health policies,
guidelines and related prescript to manage resources effectively. Computer
literacy (Microsoft Office). Experience in general paediatrics post community
service, including acute and chronic care. Willingness to develop protocols,
attend meetings and prepare reports for child abuse and child protection.
Willingness to work with the trauma unit, acute care and OPD on child abuse
issues. Excellent interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to work under
pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability and
willingness to teach and supervise undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Knowledge of protocols for common acute and long-term health conditions.
Valid Advanced Paediatric Life Support course.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive, high-quality ambulatory, emergency, child protection
and general paediatrics clinical services, with an emphasis on child protection
and long-term health conditions. Teaching (formal and informal) and training in
General Paediatrics (undergraduate, postgraduate, nursing, and allied health).
Create a learning environment for students and junior colleagues. Do
appropriate clinical audits and research within the department to stay abreast
of clinical developments. Participation in existing research projects within the
department and stay abreast of clinical developments. Alignment with clinical
& corporate governance principles of General Paediatrics. Administration of
HECTIS patient management system and other WCG health applications.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Dunkley Tel No: (021) 658-5111 or email: rowan.dunkley@uct.ac.za / Dr
R Johaar Tel No: (021) 658-5111 or email:
Rizqah.Johaar@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
POST 27/268 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: INTERNAL MEDICINE) (X2
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(1-Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful candidate to participate
in a system of remunerated commuted overtime)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with the Professional Council: Registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA- qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
203
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Commuted overtime
is compulsory. Emergency and after hour call cover. Valid ACLS Certificate.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and clinical skills required of a
Medical Officer (e.g. Assessment, diagnosis and treatment in inpatient,
outpatient, and acute medical/emergency contexts). Practical clinical skills
appropriate for diagnostic investigations and those required for resuscitation
and stabilisation of acutely unwell patients according to ACLS principles.
Effective and efficient administration. Effective leadership & interpersonal
skills. Communication including clinical summary/report generation,
consultation as well as patient counselling. Completion of FCP Part 1.
DUTIES : Provision of safe medical care to patients in the Acute Medical Admissions and
Short Stay Ward, High Care Unit, Inpatient medical wards and Medical
Outpatients department at Groote Schuur Hospital and satellite hospitals.
Perform onsite after-hours duties as per call roster. Supervise and support
medical students, interns and community service medical officers providing
medical care. Involvement in research/audits relating to Internal Medicine.
ENQUIRIES : Dr D Maughan Tel No: (021) 406-6422 or email: deborah.maughan@uct.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). Please ensure that you attached an updated CV. Groote
Schuur Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its
training platform. Accordingly, all Medical Officer appointments may be called
upon to work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and
Rural East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's
Hospital, New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria
Hospital and George Provincial Hospital.
POST 27/269 : PHARMACY SUPERVISOR
West Coast District
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with SAPC as
a Pharmacist. Registration with a professional council: Registration as a
Pharmacist with the South African Pharmacy Council. Experience: A minimum
of 3 years appropriate experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the
South African Pharmacy Council. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (code
B/EB) drivers’ licence. Willingness to register as a Responsible Pharmacist.
Willingness to supervise, tutor and train students and staff. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of National and Provincial Health Policies as
well as the Acts and Laws that govern the practice of Pharmacy. Ability to cope
with pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Good verbal,
as well as written communication skills. Sound Management, communication
and conflict handling skills. Computer skills (MS Office, Word, Excel and
PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Management of Drug Supply and Prescribing habits in the hospital and sub-
district. Manage, assess and monitor compliance wrt Good Pharmacy Practice,
Ideal Clinic and National Core Standards. Take leadership in the hospital and
sub-district to establish a value driven pharmacy service and implement
policies and guidelines in keeping with the Batho Pele, SAPC, National Drug
policy, National and Provincial standard treatment guidelines. Human
Resource Management for all Pharmacy staff in hospital and support within the
204
sub-district. Management of Finance and Supply Chain. Participate in
continuous quality improvement initiatives and support to Clinical Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Brownbridge Tel No: (022) 487-9200
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 27/270 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SUB-SPECIALTY:
ALLERGOLOGY) (5/8TH) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 009 887 per annum
Grade 2: R1 152 594 per annum
Grade 3: R1 258 923 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Subspecialist in Paediatric Allergology. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Sub - Specialist
in Paediatric Allergology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Subspecialist in Paediatric Allergology. Grade 2: A
minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Subspecialist after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Subspecialist in Paediatric Allergology
(or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees). Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience
as Medical Subspecialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Subspecialist in Paediatric Allergology (or recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees). Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to travel within the District and Metro
Region. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to comprehensively manage
all child and adolescent paediatric allergology and general paediatric cases
including intensive management of tertiary level patients. Proven leadership
abilities. Experience in supervision of staff. Experience in effectively manage
of allocated resources. Proven experience in teamwork. Proven
knowledge/skills and experience in principles of service planning, organising,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation. Proven ability to adhere to all
departmental requirements and protocols. Proven knowledge of public health
and public health policies, guidelines and related prescript to manage
resources effectively. Research experience as a primary investigator or
research supervisor. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive, high-quality child and adolescent paediatric
allergology and general paediatrics clinical services. Clinical leadership and
relevant oversight of daily clinical operations of a multidisciplinary paediatric
allergology team and a general paediatrics team in a tertiary setting. Provide
outreach and support to referrers and referring institutions, as required.
Conduct ward rounds/ multidisciplinary clinical meetings. Manage and
effectively/efficiently use allocated resources. Effective and efficient
administration of clinical services. Adhere to requirements for all people
management matters. Create a learning environment for students and junior
colleagues both under- and postgraduate as required. Do appropriate clinical
audits and research within the department to stay abreast of clinical
developments.
ENQUIRIES : Professor H Buys Tel No: (021) 685-5111 or Email: Heloise.Buys@uct.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 27/271 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION GRADE A (FORENSIC TOXICOLOGY) (X3
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R791 604 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Science Degree (Bsc) (Hon) or relevant
qualification that allows registration as a Professional Natural Scientist.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SACNASP as a
Professional Natural Scientist. Experience: 3 years post qualification natural
scientific experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to operate
specialised analytical instrumentation and perform laboratory-based analytical
work. Ability to maintain a high level of accuracy, confidentiality and attention
205
to detail under operational pressures and deadlines. Willingness to participate
in after-hours or court-related duties where required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Forensic Toxicology principles and medico-legal death
investigation processes. Analytical chemistry and toxicological analysis
techniques, including chromatography and mass spectrometry. Operation and
troubleshooting of analytical instrumentation (e.g. LC-MS/MS) and laboratory
equipment. Biological specimen handlings, chain-of custody and laboratory
safety procedures. Quality Management Systems and ISO/IEC 17025
accreditation requirements. Quality management and quality control principles,
including the interpretation and monitoring of internal quality control data,
statistical quality assurance tools and Levy-Jennings charts. Applicable
legislation, ethical principles and regulatory requirements relevant to forensic
science and medico-legal investigations. Research methodology, scientific
writing and data analysis principles. Microsoft Office, Laboratory Information
Systems, computer-based scientific applications and statistical programs, (e.g.
SPSS, R). Programme and project management, staff development and
operational laboratory processes. -Work with medico-legal and potentially
hazardous biological specimens within a forensic environment. Analytical and
problem-solving skills. -Scientific and technical preparation skills. Scientific
method development, validation an data interpretation principles. Data analysis
and interpretation. Technical report writing and scientific communication.
Planning, organisational, and time management. Interpersonal, teamwork and
communication. Training, mentoring and supervision. Attention to detail and
record-keeping. Ability to work independently and under pressure within a
medico-legal environment. Ability to communicate clearly and discreetly in
person and in writing. Appropriate experience working in an analytical or
forensic toxicology environment. Appropriate experience working within and
ISO/IEC 17025 Environment. Appropriate experience operation LC-MS/MS
instrumentation.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient scientific analysis and Medico-legal service delivery.
Efficient method development, validation and laboratory improvement.
Effective and efficient research, innovation and knowledge generation.
Effective Human Capital development and Scientific leadership. Effective
Quality Management System (QMA), Compliance and Operational support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Davies Tel No: (021) 406-6026/6412 or email:
Bronwen.Davies@uct.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates will be subjected to
a security clearance prior to appointment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated requirements may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of qualification for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
POST 27/272 : LECTURER GRADE 1 TO 2 POST GRADUATE DIPLOMA NURSING
PROGRAMMES
Western Cape College of Nursing
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape College of Nursing (based at: Metro Campus)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880 plus
R254) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification (R212) with a
duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Nursing Education. A
post-basic nursing qualification (R212) with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in one of the following fields: Medical and Surgical
Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency. Medical and
Surgical Nursing Science: Critical Care Nursing (Adult), Medical and Surgical
Nursing Science: Orthopaedic Nursing, A relevant master’s degree (NQF L9).
Or A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification
(R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate
206
diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Nursing Education. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in one of the following
fields: Emergency Nursing, Orthopaedic Nursing, Critical Care Nursing (Adult),
A relevant master’s degree (NQF L9). Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional
Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/ recognisable
nursing experience after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
nursing experience after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in
General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification or post-graduate diploma in Nursing Education or the relevant
specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Possess knowledge of relevant Legislation,
Acts, Prescripts and Policy frameworks informing the area of operation.
Knowledge of nursing education programmes and curriculum. Proficiency in
teaching and assessment in Nursing Education including evaluation
approaches. Possess good communication (written & verbal) and presentation
skills. Knowledge of policy development, interpretation, implementation,
monitoring, and evaluation. Sound conflict management and decision making
/ problem solving skills. Willingness to travel. Good research and analytical
skills. Good managerial and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide education and training to student nurses. Coordinate clinical learning
exposure to students between college and clinical areas. Conduct clinical
accompaniment of students. Coordinate the teaching and learning and
assessment of R635 programmes. Develop and ensure implementation of
quality assurance programmes. Collaborate with other internal and external
stakeholders and build a sound relationship within the Department.
Supervision of students. Participate in the development and review of nursing
curricula for Post Graduate Diploma Programmes. Implements the new nursing
programmes in line with SANC and CHE regulations. Participate in the
provisioning of Continuous Professional Development (CPD) activities at the
Campus. Participate in all governance structures of the College. Support the
mission and promote the image of the college.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Magerman Tel No: (021) 684-1225
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a competency test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification or post-graduate qualification in the relevant specialty.
POST 27/273 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: OPERATING
THEATRE)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year,
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating
Theatre. A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification
(R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-graduate diploma (R635)
accredited with the SANC in Peri-operative Nursing. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse. At least 10
years referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience after
207
obtaining the 1 year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
night duty, overtime, public holidays and weekends to meet the operational
requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of relevant
legislation and policies of the Department of Health Western Cape. Ability to
function independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good
patient care. Ability to communicate effectively (both written and verbal).
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Leadership
towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of Operating Theatre
Unit. Skills to plan organise and the service by analysing problem, problem
solving and decision making.
DUTIES : Render and supervise specialized clinical nursing care and support clinical staff
with procedures within the specific clinical specialty unit. Utilise human,
material and physical resources and development of self and others. Display
core values of the Department of Health and Wellness (WCG)on the execution
of duties, while practicing within the legislation, regulations and protocols
applicable to the public service. Ensure quality patient care regarding the
identification of nursing care needs, the planning and implementation of
nursing care plans and the education of nursing personnel as a Professional
Nurse in the specific specialty clinical area.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LI Cupido, email, Le-Anchen.Cupido@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualification will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualification within a predetermined period of time. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification or a post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
POST 27/274 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (SYSTEM
MANAGER: CLINICAL SYSTEMS)
Directorate: Health Information Technology – HIS Application Support Centre
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in health facility administrative
and clinical processes. Appropriate experience in primary health care facility
systems. Appropriate experience in training and supporting system users on
clinical applications. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s license.
Willingness to travel to WCDHW health institutions. Willingness to work
overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge and
experience in clinical health systems. Good communication and interpersonal
skills. Proven ability to work in a team environment. Ability to provide user
training and support. Accurate data capturing skills. Computer literacy,
including MS Office and MS Project. Knowledge of all health information
systems and modules within the Western Cape Department of Health and
Wellness. Understanding of business process re-engineering. Understanding
of system maintenance and enhancement process flows. Understanding and
development of quality control processes.
DUTIES : Manage and control the clinical systems and modules across all hospitals and
clinics in the Western Cape. Oversee the maintenance of systems,
documentation, access control, and print management. Maintenance and
Support of the Electronic Health Record. Manage and ensure updates for
annual or ad hoc regulatory changes. Liaise with HIS management, hospital
management, IT and other stakeholders on clinical system matters. Provide
end-user support and resolve system problems for clinical systems. Update
and maintain user manuals and clinical system procedures. Oversee system
changes and manage test processes with formal outcome reporting. Develop
system release notices for system changes and ensure user awareness.
Oversee training needs and training for users and core trainers. -Assist with
data quality assurance. Manage compliance with system release logs and
exception reports. Drive business process re-engineering in clinical system-
208
related areas across hospitals. Support development and administration of
new clinical system modules. Manage System Controllers. Collaborate with the
Finance and clinical documentation teams to ensure compliance of clinical
systems with hospital fees and patient administration policies and manage new
enhancement requests through to deployment where accepted. Provide ad hoc
support to the Deputy Director: eHealth Systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Maharaj Tel No: (021) 938-6513
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to undergo competency assessments/proficiency
tests.
POST 27/275 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: 564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital, Overstrand Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualifications that allow
registration with the Health Professions Council as an Occupational Therapist.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the Health
Professions Council (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration as Occupational Therapist with the HPCSA in
respect of SA qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after
registration as Occupational Therapist with the HPCSA in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service
as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’ relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid
driver’s license. Willingness to travel in the sub-district/district to consult clients
and attend meetings and training sessions. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good communication skills. Ability to function/make decisions independently
and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication, interpersonal
relationships. Knowledge of applicable health legislation, relevant acts and
policies. Ability to adapt and work efficiently in a resource-constrained
environment.
DUTIES : Clinical Occupational therapy services at health facility level, district hospital
and PHC facilities. Training of self and other staff members. Render community
based occupational therapy service in line with community orientated primary
healthcare. Administrative duties, complete documentation of all services
rendered. Provide health promotion, training, and community service
intervention. Render mobility assistive device service.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Z Leff Tel No: (028) 313-5203
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be required to undergo a competency assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status).
POST 27/276 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LABOUR RELATIONS
Garden Route District
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Garden Route District Office
209
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Human Resource Management or Labour Law. Experience:
Appropriate experience in PERSAL. Appropriate experience in labour relations.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness
to travel within the Garden Route geographical area, Central Karoo and Cape
Town. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office
package). Good communication skills (written and verbal). Ability to work under
pressure, meet deadlines and maintain confidentiality. Ability to work
independently and in a team with good report writing skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the effective functioning of the IMLC’s and act as secretarial for the
IMLC. Maintain and report on labour relations statistics. Facilitation of training
for all staff with regards to labour relations issues. Assist with preparation for
conciliation and arbitration and represent where required. Handle grievances
and disciplinary matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Joubert Tel No: (044) 803 - 2700
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 27/277 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(TALENT SOURCING)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Services (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Talent Sourcing. Appropriate
experience in Personnel Administration. Appropriate PERSAL experience.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Will be
required to wear a uniform. Will be required to travel within the province to
provide support for talent sourcing processes. Must be willing to work overtime,
when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of all
prescripts/aspects of Public Service Act, i.e. Public Service Regulations (PSR)
Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of employment act, Employment Equity
Act. Planning and organising skills. Problem Solving Skills. Analytical Thinking
skills. Ability to supervise and plan. Ability to work under pressure and meet
deadlines. Ability to function independently as well as in a multi-disciplinary
team. Ability to communicate clearly and discreetly in person and writing.
Computer Literacy in at least MS Word, Ms Excel, MS Outlook and MS
PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Assist with the management of personnel provisioning which includes
establishment amendments, control and reporting. Effective and Efficient
management of talent sourcing processes. Which includes advertising,
selection, interview, finalisation of processes and transfers. Render an effective
personnel administration function. Provide an effective support function to
manager and personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Candice Machelm, email: Candice.Machelm@westerncape.gov.za / Mr
Norman Cloete, email: Norman.Cloete@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test.
POST 27/278 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
West Coast District
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate support services administration and contract
management experience. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (code B/EB)
driver’s licence and expected to provide a support service within the Matzikama
SD. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office Excel,
Word, and Outlook). Good written and verbal communication. Excellent
organisational skills, the ability to function independently as well as in a multi-
disciplinary team. Knowledge of waste management and government
transport. Knowledge of telecommunication, porter, and laundry services.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient control of the transport section and technical services.
Effective control and efficient operating of laundry unit and linen bank.
Management of the grounds and the cleaning services as well as security.
210
Ensure effective management of food services component. Manage
telecommunication and perform general supervision and development of
support services personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WA Phillipus Tel No: (027) 213-2039
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
POST 27/279 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: HIV/AIDS OPD AND
POST NATAL WARD) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. Or a 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after hours, night duty and
weekends when required. Willingness to work overtime if needed. Willingness
to rotate to other wards when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy. Planning and organisational skills. The ability to function
independently under pressure. Knowledge and insight into protocols and
policies pertaining to nursing practices in a hospital setting.
DUTIES : To provide holistic, quality health care and education according to individual
needs of patients, family and the community. Effective utilization of resources.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self- development. Provide
support to Nursing Services. Participate in training and research. Ensure
proper record keeping and perform administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms TM Nqwede Tel No: (021) 659-4952
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”
POST 27/280 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING) (VARIOUS
COMPONENTS) (X10 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Southern Western Sub-structure (X3 Posts)
Saxon Sea CDC (X1 Post)
Hout Bay CDC (X1 Post)
Lady Michaelis CDC (X1 Post)
Lotus River CDC (X1 Post)
Du Noon CHC (X1 Post)
Retreat CHC (X1 Post)
District Six CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
211
Professional Nurse. OR A 4-year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid driver’s license (Code B/EB). Must be willing to assist at other
facilities within the Substructure. Willingness to work shifts, night shift and
overtime when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
Nursing Care processes and procedures Nursing Act. Problem-solving and
decision-making. Report writing skills. Health promotion and team building.
Good communication and interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care within the Primary Health Care context. Maintain
ethical practices within legal and regulatory frameworks. Maintain a
constructive working relationship will all relevant stakeholders of the Primary
Health Care team. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently
and effectively. Participate in training programmes and research activities.
Maintain workplace disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Dr L Fillies Tel No: (021) 202-0933) (Southern Western Sub-structure)
Ms B Botlane, Tel No: (021) 833-5210/1 (Saxon Sea CDC)
Ms T Ahjam Tel No: (021) 810-8040 (Hout Bay CDC)
Ms L Van Wyk Tel No: (021) 797-8171 (Lady Michaelis CDC)
Ms Z Sambo Tel No: (021) 703-3131 (Lotus River CDC)
Mr R Hall Tel No: (021) 200-4501 (Du Noon CHC)
Ms C Adams Tel No: (021) 713-9800 (Retreat CHC)
Ms R Klink Tel No: (021) 833-5400/01/05 (District Six CDC)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 27/281 : PARAMEDIC GRADE 1 TO 4 (EMS CONTINUOUS QUALITY
IMPROVEMENT)
Chief Directorate: Emergency And Clinical Support Service
SALARY : Grade 1: R334 227 per annum
Grade 2: R413 199 per annum
Grade 3: R506 496 per annum
Grade 4: R593 079 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 1: Successful completion of the
Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programmes that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Paramedic. -Grade 2:
Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant programme or a
Recognized National Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic. Grade 3: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant
(CCA) programme or a Recognized National Diploma that allows registration
with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B Tech Degree that allows registration with
the HPCSA as Emergency Care Practitioner. Grade 4: Successful completion
of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA) programme or a Recognized National
Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic or B Tech
Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as Emergency Care
Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Grade 1: Registration
with the HPCSA as Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2: Registration with the HPCSA
as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma. Grade 3: Registration with the
HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma or ECP. Grade 4:
Registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with CCA or National Diploma or
212
ECP. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2: 7 years after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). None after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with
National Diploma. Grade 3: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 14 years after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 7
years after registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Registered ECP–
None. Grade 4: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 24 years after registration with
the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDip) - 17 years after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered ECPs-10 years after
registration with the HPCSA as an ECP. Inherent requirement of the job:
Physical and mental fitness. Valid code C1 driver’s license. Valid professional
driver’s permit (PrDP). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge
of all levels of emergency care protocols within the scope of registration
category. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy and
skills.
DUTIES : Clinical Quality Assurance & Patient Safety: Lead the development and
implementation of comprehensive quality improvement frameworks to ensure
consistent, high-standard emergency care delivery from roadside to bedside
Establish and maintain robust clinical governance structures, including incident
reporting systems, adverse event management, and patient safety protocols.
Monitor and evaluate clinical performance against established emergency
response timeframes and quality benchmarks across all service platforms.
Coordinate systematic collection and analysis of patient feedback, complaints,
compliments, and clinical outcomes to drive service improvements. Clinical
Leadership & Professional Development: Provide strategic clinical leadership
and mentorship to prehospital emergency care providers across all levels of
service delivery. Collaborate with multidisciplinary teams to develop evidence-
based clinical protocols, care pathways, and operational guidelines Design and
facilitate continuous professional development programs, including clinical
coaching, skills enhancement, and competency assessments Establish clinical
oversight mechanisms to support real-time decision-making and maintain
clinical excellence standards. Quality Improvement Program Management:
Design, implement, and evaluate targeted quality improvement initiatives
based on current evidence, best practices, and local contextual needs.
Coordinate cross-functional quality improvement projects involving clinical,
operational, and administrative stakeholders. Establish data-driven
performance monitoring systems to track clinical outcomes, response times,
and service effectiveness. Lead root cause analysis processes for clinical
incidents and develop corrective action plans to prevent recurrence. Strategic
Clinical Governance: Uphold and promote patient-centred care principles
throughout all emergency medical service operations. Ensure compliance with
regulatory requirements, professional standards, and organisational policies
across geographic and clinical service platforms. Develop and maintain clinical
standards, protocols, and quality metrics that align with national emergency
medical service guidelines. Provide clinical expertise and leadership input for
strategic planning and service development initiatives. Stakeholder
Engagement & Communication: Facilitate effective communication and
collaboration between clinical teams, management, and external healthcare
partners. Represent the organisation in clinical governance forums, quality
improvement networks, and professional development initiatives. Maintain
relationships with regulatory bodies, healthcare institutions, and community
stakeholders to support integrated emergency care delivery. Prepare and
present clinical performance reports, quality improvement outcomes, and
strategic recommendations to senior leadership.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Abdullah at (063) 780-1864 or email:
Naseef.abdullah@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
213
POST 27/282 : EMS LECTURER (PARAMEDIC) GRADE 1 TO 4 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: People Management
SALARY : Grade 1: R334 227 per annum
Grade 2: R413 199 per annum
Grade 3: R506 496 per annum
Grade 4: R593 079 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Government, College of Emergency Care
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 1: Successful completion of the
Critical Care Assistant (CCA) qualification that allows registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Paramedic. Grade
2: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA) qualification or a
recognised National Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Paramedic. Grade 3: Successful completion of the Critical Care Assistant
(CCA) qualification or a recognised National Diploma that allows registration
with the HPCSA as a Paramedic or B-Tech degree that allows registration with
the HPCSA as an Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Grade 4: Successful
completion of the Critical Care Assistant (CCA) qualification or a recognised
National Diploma that allows registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic or
B-Tech degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as an Emergency Care
Practitioner (ECP). Registration with a professional council: Grade 1:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2: Registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Paramedic with CCA or NDIP. Grade 3:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Paramedic (CCA or NDIP) or ECP. Grade 4: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Paramedic (CCA or NDIP)
or ECP. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). Grade 2: 7 Years after registration with the HPCSA as
Paramedic (CCA). None after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic with
a National Diploma. Grade 3: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 14 years after
registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDIP) - 7
years after registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. None after registration
with the HPCSA as an ECP. Grade 4: Registered Paramedic (CCA) - 24 years
after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered Paramedic (NDIP)
- 17 years after registration with the HPCSA as Paramedic. Registered ECP’s
-10 years after registration with the HPCSA as an ECP. Inherent requirement
of the job: Valid code B driver’s license. Physical and mental fitness. Bachelor’s
degree in Emergency Medical Care (BEMC) or BTech EMC. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proficient in MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint. Ability to work
under pressure in a stressful environment. Excellent verbal and written
communication skills. Ability to provide mentorship and coaching. Ability to
work within a team in Higher Education Institution.
DUTIES : Provide effective and efficient teaching on NQF 5 and above health sciences
programmes. Ensure Adherence to institutional policies and procedures.
Perform front-line shifts with students and other clinical duties. Teach across
clinical training programmes where required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Cermak Tel No: (021) 938-4116
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 27/283 : OPHTHALMOLOGY TECHNICIAN GRADE 1 TO 2 (OPHTHALMOLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R279 870 per annum
Grade 2: R326 352 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Two years of in-service training on
ophthalmic specialised equipment after obtaining Level 1 Ophthalmic Assistant
course. Experience: Grade 1: None after obtaining the appropriate
qualification or prescribed in-service training. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate experience after obtaining the appropriate qualification or
prescribed in-service training. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
interact with patients, family members and members of the public. Ability to
keep abreast of new developments in technology, sterilisation and disinfection
methods. Ability to accurately record data and to provide accurate maintenance
records. Ability to communicate effectively with clinical and other staff. Ability
to work independently and with good time management. Ability to perform
routine tasks and acquire technical skills. Ability to adhere to required health
214
and safety standards. Must be able to plan well and understand the need to
report to an ophthalmologist.
DUTIES : Perform ophthalmic special investigations. Responsible for maintenance of
equipment and consulting room hygiene. Assist in ophthalmic counselling and
the distribution of information material. Keep accurate and retrievable patient
records. Responsible for consulting room provisioning. Participate in
departmental audit programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Prof N Du Toit Tel No: (021) 406-6216
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test
POST 27/284 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3 (CHRONIC
MEDICATION)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R275 340 per annum
Grade 2: R318 666 per annum
Grade 3: R343 761 per annum
CENTRE : Northern/Tygerberg Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant
qualification that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post- Basic) (Institutional) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic).
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post- Basic). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience
after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Grade
3: A minimum of 13 years’ relevant experience after registration as a
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
computer literacy. Ability to work as part of a team or independently. Ability to
work under pressure. Accuracy and attention to detail. Good understanding
Good Pharmacy Practice (GPP). Ethical working Practice and compliance.
DUTIES : Meaningful engagement with key stakeholders. Management and coordination
of private providers for NTSS. Direct service delivery at Primary Health Care
facilities within NTSS on a rotational basis. Assist private providers with stock
and pharmacy related queries. Assist with issuing of pharmaceutical products
and quality provision of Pharmaceutical Care Assist with the control of stock by
managing the safe and reliable procurement, storage, control and distribution
of quality pharmaceuticals. Assist with the collation and organisation of
information for research purposes and any reasonable job-related requests
within the scope of practice of the Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic).
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Rawoot Tel No: (021) 827-9120
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected to a
practical/written and oral assessment.
POST 27/285 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R275 340 per annum
Grade 2: R318 666 per annum
Grade 3: R343 761 per annum
CENTRE : Lady Michaelis CDC (X1 Post)
Southern Western Sub-structure Office (Atlantis Ecosystem) (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant
qualification that allows registration with SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional. Registration
215
with a professional council: Registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post Basic) (Institutional) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic).
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist’s
Assistant (Post-Basic). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Willingness to perform regular after-hours duties. Willingness
to travel between PHC facilities in the SWSS. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook), JAC, Medsas. Good Interpersonal and
communication skills. Ability to work as part of a team or independently. Ability
to work accurately under pressure and maintain a high standard of
professionalism. Capable of adapting to seamlessly fit into changing working
environments.
DUTIES : Perform the following services or acts under the direct personal supervision of
a pharmacist: Assist with reading and preparation of a prescription, the
selection, manipulation or compounding of the medicine, the labelling and
supply of the medicine in an appropriate container following the interpretation
and evaluation of the prescription by a pharmacist. Assist with the provision of
instructions regarding the correct use of medicine supplied and information to
individuals to promote health. Assist with the distribution, control of and
ordering of medicine and scheduled substances. Assist with the compounding
or manufacturing of a non-sterile or sterile medicine or scheduled substance
according to a formula and standard operating procedures approved. Assist
with general housekeeping and administrative tasks. Support facilities with
managing and expanding chronic medicine access through all differentiated
models of care e.g. home deliveries of chronic medicine.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Walklett Tel No: (021) 202-0981
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 27/286 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (ELECTRICAL)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support Services
SALARY : Grade A: R253 341 per annum
Grade B: R297 249 per annum
Grade C: R345 342 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Metro East)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate.
Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade B: At least 18 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in the area after obtaining the relevant Trade Test Certificate.
Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB) (Manual).
Willingness to travel to perform maintenance duties throughout the Western
Cape. Physically fit to perform duties. Work overtime should the need arise,
day or night and perform standby duties and attend to emergency breakdowns
(including after-hour repairs). Competencies (knowledge/skills): The ability to
communicate eloquently. Occupational health and safety act 1993 and its
relevant regulations and SANS 10142-1. Ability to fault-find and repairs down
to component level.
DUTIES : Service, repair and fault finding of Electrical Fence, CCTV, Access control and
Fire detection. Service, repair and fault finding of various alternative power
supplies (Generators/UPS/Inverters). Service, repair, fault finding and
installation of various motors/pumps and motor control circuits. Compile and
submit inspection reports as required on all electrical equipment stipulate on
the preventative maintenance plan of the workshop to comply with SANS
216
regulations. Give in service training to Handyman, Tradesmen Aid and Interns.
Assist with the executing of all electrical projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Khohli Tel No: (021) 370-1119
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. This post will
be filled to the requirements of the approved Metro East Hub stationed at
Lentegeur Psychiatric Hospital. Short-listed candidates might be subjected to
a practical test.
POST 27/287 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN
West Coast Health District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Financial Management. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Driver’s Licence
(Code B/EB). Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and practical experience of the LOGIS System. Sound knowledge
of the Basic Accounting System (BAS) and all applicable government
legislation. Computer literacy (MS, Excel and Word). Sound knowledge of
PFMA, National and Provincial Treasury Instructions. Good communication
skills.
DUTIES : Payments and Journal Processing (Bas and Logis). Petty Cash Management
and Supplier/Creditor bank details registration. Bas debt management and
asset & Liabilities account clearance and management. Batch control and
financial reporting. Support to supervisor and component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Landile Tel No: (027) 213-2039
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
may form part of the interview process.
POST 27/288 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
West Coast District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Radie Kotze Hospital, Bergriver Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resources that include Salary
Administration, Service Conditions, Personnel Management, Pension
Administration, PERSAL or Related salary administration system and
Recruitment and Selection. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
travel and work overtime when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good verbal and written communication skills. Sound Knowledge of HRM
Policies and Practices, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Collective Agreements regarding personnel- and salary administration.
Computer literate (i.e. MS office package, e-mail and internet). Ability to meet
deadlines and to maintain confidentiality.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to the personnel administration and
salary administration functions e.g. appointments, service terminations,
transfers, pension, leave, housing, injury on duty, distribution of monthly
payslips and debt management and verify documents. Responsible for
capturing transactions related to service terminations on PERSAL and audit
personnel and leave records. Maintenance of effective recordkeeping systems
and assist with registers related to PILIR, ORW’s etc. Assist with recruitment
and selection processes any other related support functions. Provide an
effective support service to supervisor, component and management (i.e. relief
duties and attending meetings).
ENQUIRIES : Mr JR Smit Tel No: (022) 913-1246
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
POST 27/289 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (THEATRE) (X1 POST), (MALE AND
FEMALE PSYCHIATRY) (X1 POST)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
217
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital, Overstrand Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows you registration
with South African Nursing Council as Staff Nurse. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience:
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3:
A minimum of 20 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with SANC as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work overtime when necessary. Willingness to work nightshift,
shifts, weekends and public holidays. Relieve in all areas. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function independently, as well as in a multi-
disciplinary team to ensure good patient care. Ability to communicate
effectively (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide basic clinical nursing care. Development and implementation of basic
patient care plans. Effective utilisation of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Klaasen Tel No: (028) 312-1166
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 27/290 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (THEATRE AND CSSD)
West Coast Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration
with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness
to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours, night duty, weekends and overtime
when necessary. Willingness to work in all departments(wards) of nursing
according to operational needs per rotational schedule. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the Nursing Act and relevant regulations.
Knowledge of the Medicines Control Act, Mental Health Care Act, Child Health
Act, and other relevant legislation. Good communication, planning and
interpersonal skills. Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team and enhance
patient care through implementation of SOP’s, policies and guidelines.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide clinical
nursing care. Effective utilisation of resources. Maintain Professional growth/
ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Van Wyk Tel No: (022) 709-5079
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
218
POST 27/291 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (VARIOUS COMPONENTS) (X8
POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R181 230 per annum
Grade 2: R211 401 per annum
Grade 3: R249 141 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as an Enrolled Nursing Assistant.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with SANC as Enrolled
Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Nursing Assistant. Inherent
requirements of the job: Working shifts and after-hours including weekends,
public holidays and night duty. To rotate to other departments. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Nursing Practices. Infection Prevention
Control, control measures and practices. Ability to interpret basic clinical signs
and symptoms. Basic computer literacy. Ability to lift and turn patients, stand
for long hours and lift heavy equipment.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care). To provide
elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilisation of physical and financial
resources. Maintain professional growth, ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Wulff Tel No: (021) 404-2109
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
POST 27/292 : STERILISATION OPERATOR PRODUCTION (CSSD AND GAS)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate CSSD experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Work shifts including weekends, public holidays and
night duty. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate effectively
(verbal and written). Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work in a co-
operative way within a team context and willingness to be rotated within the
CPD department. Basic understanding of disinfection, decontamination and
sterilisation.
DUTIES : Effective application of sterilisation processes and techniques and
promote/adhere to infection control as well as health and safety regulations.
Decontaminate, pack and sterilise instruments linen and supplies. Assist with
cleaning and testing of sterilisation equipment, washing machine and
autoclaves, lift-up and pushing heavy equipment. Maintain equipment in an
optimum working condition and utilisation of resources. Use autoclaves,
washing machines and equipment/consumables in a cost-effective manner.
Monitor, control and maintain adequate stock levels, report, and assist with
investigation of lost instruments/equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Sutcliffe Tel No: (021) 404-2092
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 27/293 : GENERAL WORKER: STORES (SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a Warehouse (Stores). Inherent requirements of the
job: Ability to pick up heavy boxes or bags. Willingness to assist with stock-
taking. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Hospital consumable
219
items. Knowledge of Warehouse Layout. Ability to work in a team. Ability to
communicate effectively (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Assist the storekeepers with the handling of the stock. Receive and issue
goods. Deliver store stock to end-users. Rotate store stock (first in, first out).
Perform certain messenger duties between the stores and other departments
within the hospital environment when required. Clean various stores and non-
storage areas within the main stores. Assist in the other stores when required.
Ad-hoc duties as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Jenekar Tel No: (021) 658-5906
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 27/294 : FOOD SERVICES AID
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital, Southern/Western Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a hospital Food Service Unit. Inherent requirements
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends, and public holidays. Ability to
work in large scale freezers and cold rooms. Physically strong to lift heavy
objects and be on their feet the entire day. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to function in a group and to work under pressure. Ability to prepare food
according to standardised recipes. Knowledge of National Food Service
Guidelines. Knowledge of basic cleaning and maintenance of equipment.
Ability to read, speak and write in at least two of the three official languages of
the Western Cape.
DUTIES : Prepare, dish up and serve food for normal and special diets. Assist with the
receipt, storage, and stock control of food supplies. Prepare infant formulas &
tube feeds in the milk kitchen. Cleaning and sterilisation of feeding cups and
utensils in the milk kitchen. Follow and maintain hygiene and safety directives,
including the use of apparatus and equipment, washing of crockery and
cooking utensils. Assist with the informal in-service training of new employees.
Attend prescribed training courses.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Newing Tel No: (021) 816-8550
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment.
POST 27/295 : GENERAL WORKER (STORES) (LOGISTICS AND WAREHOUSING) (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
experience in a stores environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
Communication skills. Physically able to handle stock.
DUTIES : Assist the Admin Clerk with the handling of stock. Receive and issue goods.
Deliver store stock to end-users. Rotate store stock (first in, first out). Clean
various stores and non-storage areas within the main stores. Assist in other
Stores when required. Answer telephone and handle internal queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Block Tel No: (021) 404-2044
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
POST 27/296 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (OTORHINOLARYNGOLOGY)
(SESSIONAL :10 HOURS PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R671 per hour
Grade 2: R766 per hour
Grade 3: R887 per hour
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Otorhinolaryngology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology. Grade 2: A minimum of
220
5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Otorhinolaryngology. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in
Otorhinolaryngology. Inherent requirement of the job: It will be expected of the
successful candidate to comply with the governance processes of the
department of health. A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and a willingness to
travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good work etiquette; excellent
communication skills; conflict management; cost conscious care provision.
Manage own theatre lists and provide clear guidance on outpatient bookings.
Good technology and computer skills; problem-solving experience; leadership
and mentoring experience. Performance of audits, research and publications.
Experience in teaching, conducting and supervising research. Proven
knowledge of public health policies, guidelines and related prescript to manage
resources effectively.
DUTIES : Provision of definitive clinical Otorhinolaryngology care within the scope of a
regional hospital service, including assessment, management, elective
surgery, ongoing care, emergency care, and appropriate referral of complex
cases in accordance with established referral pathways to tertiary facilities.
Delivery of high-quality, patient-centred Otorhinolaryngology services,
ensuring efficient management of patient workload while maintaining clinical
standards, patient safety, and service satisfaction. Support and supervision of
junior medical staff in the assessment, diagnosis, and management of
Otorhinolaryngology conditions, including bedside and procedural guidance
within the clinical environment. Commitment to structured teaching and training
of junior doctors, interns, and other healthcare professionals through informal
bedside teaching, as well as formal academic activities such as lectures,
tutorials, and case discussions. Render an efficient, cost-effective high quality
clinical service to patients managed by the hospital and district as the Rural
East Ecosystem, by balancing throughput with quality. Active participation in
departmental training programmes, continuing medical education (CME)
activities, workshops, and professional development forums relevant to
Otorhinolaryngology and district/regional service delivery. Involvement in
clinical audits, quality assurance processes, and service improvement
initiatives to strengthen Otorhinolaryngology service delivery within the district
and regional health system. Participation in data collection, clinical data
management, and reporting of service statistics to support governance,
monitoring, and planning of Otorhinolaryngology services. Support clinical
governance and administrative functions within the Otorhinolaryngology
service, including medico-legal documentation, reporting requirements, staff-
related administration, and compliance with departmental policies and
protocols. Active participation in the development and maintenance of clinical
guidelines, protocols, and referral systems to ensure safe and effective
Otorhinolaryngology service delivery within a regional hospital platform. Strong
ethical standards and sound clinical judgement, with appropriate counselling
skills for patients and families. Strong leadership, communication,
interpersonal, teamwork, and organisational skills suitable for a
multidisciplinary regional hospital environment.
ENQUIRIES : Prof L Jenkins Tel No: (083) 795-1065
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates are
subjects to a practical test. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
POST 27/297 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SESSIONAL) (UROLOGY) (2
HOURS PER WEEK)
(Contract till 31 March 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R671 per hour
221
Grade 3: R766 per hour
Grade 3: R887 per hour
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Urology. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Urology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Urology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience after
registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council
in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Urology.
Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience after registration with
the HPCSA (Or as recognised foreign Health Professional council in respect of
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Urology. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Experience in Adult and Paediatric Urology, renal
transplantation, laparoscopic surgery, trauma, endourological and oncological
surgery. Ability to perform urologic surgery at a tertiary level. Research
experience in Urology.
DUTIES : To provide services (operative and OPD consulting) at Eerste River and
Western Cape Rehabilitation Hospitals. The management of specialist
urological patients within the Division of Urology and at related hospitals to
Groote Schuur Hospital. Supervision and performance of major Urology
surgery, Laparoscopic surgery, laparoscopic surgery, trauma, endourological
and oncological surgery. Oversee day surgery, surgical clinics and surgical
emergencies. Organise and contribute to the surgical skills training courses.
Contribute to the under and post grad training and research agenda of the
Division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P George Tel No: (021) 404 6105 or email: paige.george@uct.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Please ensure that you attach an
updated CV.
222